10-K


frm10k.htm

frm10k.htm

United
States Securities and Exchange Commission

WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

Securities
      Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

(Title
      of class)

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

¨

No

þ

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

¨

No

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

¨

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes

þ

No

¨

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
      accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated
      filer

¨

Non-accelerated
      filer

¨

Smaller
      reporting company

¨

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes

¨

No

þ

The
aggregate market value of the outstanding common equity of the registrant as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was $124.9 billion. Affiliates of the Company beneficially own, in the
aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such shares. There were
10,669,821,000 shares of voting common stock with a par value of $0.06
outstanding at January 29, 2010.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The
definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant’s Annual Meeting of
Shareowners, to be held April 28, 2010, is incorporated by reference in Part III
to the extent described therein.

(1)

Table
of Contents

(2)

Part
I

Item
1. Business.

General

Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms “GE,” “GECS” and “GE
Capital” on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated by the context,
“General Electric” means the parent company, General Electric Company (the
Company).

General
Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain
executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT
06828-0001.

We are
one of the largest and most diversified technology, media, and financial
services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from
aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances
to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and
industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ
about 300,000 people worldwide.  Since our incorporation in 1892, we
have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have broadened and
changed considerably the scope of our activities.

In
virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and
able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by
changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With
respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of
the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The
NBC Television Network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network.
NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers
and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators.
The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from various
types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment
banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan
companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers.

This
document contains “forward-looking statements” – that is, statements related to
future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often
address our expected future business and financial performance and financial
condition, and often contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,”
“plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “see,” or “will.” Forward-looking statements by their
nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us,
particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially
different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the
severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including
volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the
value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to
restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of
conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of
GE Capital’s funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capital’s asset levels as
planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates
on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain
our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive
position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with
which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and
other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend
at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major
industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation,
energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of
regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal
compliance risks, including the impact of proposed financial services
regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our
success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of
national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic,
business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future
results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking
statements. These uncertainties are described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A.
"Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K Report. We do not undertake to update our
forward-looking statements.

(3)

Our
consolidated global revenues were $84.3 billion in 2009, compared with $97.2
billion in 2008 and $86.3 billion in 2007. For additional information about our
geographic operations, see the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

Operating
Segments

Segment
revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on
recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment
Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 27 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Operating
businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure,
Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer &
Industrial. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of transactions between segments
are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of
each of our operating segments follows.

Results
for 2009 and prior periods in this section are reported on the basis under which
we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010
reorganization described in this section.

We also
continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for
certain businesses within the segments.

Energy
Infrastructure

Energy
Infrastructure (23.7%, 21.1% and 17.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation
and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as
wind, oil, gas and water.

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and
Africa.

Energy

Energy
serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide
with products and services related to energy production, distribution and
management. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio,
which also includes solar technology. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives
for use as industrial power sources. We sell gas turbines and generators that
are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for
industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. We are a leading
provider of Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology design and
development. IGCC systems convert coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas
that, after cleanup, is used as the primary fuel for gas turbines in
combined-cycle systems. IGCC systems produce fewer air pollutants compared with
traditional pulverized coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators
to the electric utility industry and to private industrial customers for
cogeneration applications. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both
new and installed boiling water reactors are offered through joint ventures with
Hitachi and Toshiba. In addition, we design and manufacture motors and control
systems used in industrial applications primarily for oil and gas extraction and
mining. We provide our customers with total solutions to meet their needs
through a complete portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment
upgrades, long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment
installation, monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance
optimization tools, remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We
continue to invest in advanced technology development that will provide more
value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today’s
strict environmental regulations.

In
addition, Energy offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal
water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals,
water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment
for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems,
including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.

(4)

Energy
is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain
aero-derivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but
counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 5% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.

Worldwide
competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for
power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and
political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of
regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as
we plan for future development.

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses of the Enterprise Solutions business in the Technology Infrastructure
segment and the Industrial business in the Consumer & Industrial segment
became part of the Energy business.

Oil
& Gas

Our
technology helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use
of the world's energy resources.

Oil
& Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas
industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling and
completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline
compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in
refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures
surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating
production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure
reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary
equipment.

To
ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service
business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and
gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to
customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production
capability and environmental performance.

For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

Technology
Infrastructure

Technology
Infrastructure (27.1%, 25.4% and 24.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of essential
technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world,
we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology
infrastructure.

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South
America.

Aviation

Aviation
produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and
related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters,
bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine
applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of
range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and
regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International,
a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and
Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney
division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed
and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc.,
a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.

Aviation
is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production
responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These
agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing
programs.

(5)

Joint
ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require
negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all
of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities.
Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains
related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of
CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance,
LLC.

Revenue
sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product
programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation,
but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.

Aviation
also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne
platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products,
mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components
for use in both military and commercial aircraft.

We
provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including
sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of
engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under
long-term maintenance contracts.

The
worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles
are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research
and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused
intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design,
manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services
are subject to a number of regulatory standards.

Potential
sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological
lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of
relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military
and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each
other.

Enterprise
Solutions

Enterprise
Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure,
moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection
equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.
Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it
provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality
products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks
and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant
automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator
interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions.
Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential,
commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and
sold in global markets.

During
2009, Enterprise Solutions sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and
detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. GE also dissolved
its joint venture with FANUC Ltd. resulting in GE retaining the global software,
services, embedded systems and control systems businesses. In addition, during
2009 GE signed a definitive agreement with United Technologies Corporation to
sell our security and life safety solutions business, GE Security. The sale is
expected to close in early 2010.

(6)

Effective
January 1, 2010, the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms
business was included in our newly-created segment, Home & Business
Solutions. The Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure
segment. The Security business will be reported in Corporate Items and
Eliminations pending its expected sale.

Healthcare

Healthcare
has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical
diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and
biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and
detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and
helping them to tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells
and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast,
non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the
ER, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or
brain disorders. With X-ray, digital mammography, Computed Tomography (CT),
Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates
industry-leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body
more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies
include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone
densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care
devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic
imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery,
biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the latest in cellular
technologies.

Our
product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical
equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data
management and customer productivity services.

We
compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services
operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high
product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the
key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout
the world, we play a role in delivering new technology to improve patient
outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs.

Our
products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA, as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare,
Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.

Transportation

Transportation
provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including
railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve
customers in more than 100 countries.

Transportation
manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the
Evolution Series™, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient
locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the
mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors
operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large
haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs,
and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation
applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical applications such
as wind turbines.

Transportation
also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet
efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive
enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote
monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway
management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize
asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators.
We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability,
optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan.

For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

(7)

NBC
Universal

NBC
Universal (NBCU) (9.8%, 9.3% and 8.9% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on
the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information
to a global audience. NBCU, which is 80-percent owned by General Electric and
20-percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution
of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television
networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and
affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and
programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our film company,
Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world-wide distribution of
theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the theme park
Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the
Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop
international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite
television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and
information programming to households world-wide. Our cable/satellite television
networks include USA, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth,
mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC
television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network.
Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish-language
broadcast television network, serve 234 affiliated stations within the United
States. At December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 26 television stations each
subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive
U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football
League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012.

NBCU is
subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations.
Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in
extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising
patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or
unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon
our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long-term programming contracts,
including event-based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of
our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production
and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of
releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets.
Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and
electronic sell-through offer entertainment options through new media,
introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the
unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to
protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use.

On
December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to
transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will
consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's cable networks,
regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated
investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a
49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU
assets and liabilities as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The transaction is
subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is expected to close
within the next year.

NBC
Universal’s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout
North America, Europe, South America and Asia.

Capital
Finance

Capital
Finance (32.3%, 36.7% and 38.4% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide.
Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial
programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial
services.

During
2009, General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) provided $72 billion of
new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and
municipalities. Additionally, we extended $74 billion of credit to approximately
54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 14,200
new commercial customers and 40,000 new small businesses during 2009 in the U.S.
and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 346,000 commercial
customers and 174,000 small businesses through retail programs in the
U.S.

(8)

Within
our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below
along product lines.

Our
operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and
Asia.

Capital
Finance has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI)
over the next three years. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively
focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have
domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent
return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We
have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that
are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in
our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going
forward.

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes
all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In
addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in
GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and
Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in
Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are
reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not
reflect the January 2010 reorganization.

Commercial
Lending and Leasing

CLL
provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions.
We have particular mid-market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other
financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and
end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets
include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate
aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and
healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in
Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer
businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the
U.K. and the credit card business in Ireland.

Historically,
we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include
commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies
associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition
related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is,
interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently,
competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to
and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability
is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit
quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful
management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate
and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management
systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and
distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal
structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and
productivity.

In the
first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL)
following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in
PTL.

Consumer

Consumer,
through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of
financial services to consumers and retailers in over 40 countries around the
world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers’
needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards;
personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small
and medium enterprise lending.

In
December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In the third quarter of
2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which comprised our Japanese
personal loan business (Lake) and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses,
excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.

(9)

In
October 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In
early 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and
Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card
business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A., which
were included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008.

In the
first quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian
residential mortgage business.

In June
2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired
a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC).

Our
operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations.
Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in
financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types
of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies,
consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers’ captive
finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the
basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management,
and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks
from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the
consumer’s capacity to repay debt.

Real
Estate

Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions,
including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and
floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial
real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan
structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings,
apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and
industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term,
senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing
commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for,
portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt
bonds.

We own
and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing
property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business
operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is
economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are
affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and
demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of
future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.

Our
competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real
estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity
investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending
business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal
structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the
economic and political environment of each country in which we do
business.

Energy
Financial Services

Energy
Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership
financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance to the global
energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries.
Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy
Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering,
processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas
liquids.

We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks,
financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and
leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest
rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our
success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country
in which we do business.

(10)

GE
Capital Aviation Services

GECAS
engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and
financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry.
Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger
aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions;
aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also
co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large
infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its
portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments
to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and
intermodal).

We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft
manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other
finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing
terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available
capital demand for financing.

Consumer
& Industrial

Consumer
& Industrial (6.2%, 6.4% and 7.3% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics −
competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and
service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive
markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of
differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy
efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. While some Consumer &
Industrial products such as major appliances are primarily directed to consumer
applications, and some primarily to industrial applications such as switchgear,
others, such as lighting, are directed to both markets.

We sell
and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric
and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration,
softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram®, GE Profile™, GE®, Hotpoint® and
GE Café™.

We
manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component
parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances
sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed
units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is
our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing
in-home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a
variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets,
including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity
discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.

Consumer
& Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used
to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and
distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power
panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage
power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial
applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the
delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial
lighting systems.

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Industrial business became part of the Energy business
within the Energy Infrastructure segment and the Appliances and Lighting portion
of the Consumer and Industrial business became part of our newly-created
segment, Home & Business Solutions.

Our
headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North
America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.

Discontinued
Operations

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics.

For
further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(11)

Geographic
Data

Geographic
data are reported in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Additional
financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic
Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Orders
Backlog

GE’s
total backlog

of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2009 was
$67.3 billion, a decrease of 4% from year-end 2008, reflecting decreased demand
at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology
Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.3 billion related to products, of which 61%
was scheduled for delivery in 2010. Product services orders, included in this
reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $21.0 billion at the
end of 2009. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were
approximately $108 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders
described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175 billion at
December 31, 2009. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by
customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations
section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report for further
information.

Research
and Development

GE-funded
research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, research and
development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled
$1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Technology Infrastructure’s Aviation business accounts for the
largest share of GE’s research and development expenditures with funding from
both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure’s Energy business and
Technology Infrastructure’s Healthcare business also made significant
expenditures funded primarily by GE.

Expenditures
reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management
purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology.
These technology expenditures were $5.2 billion in 2009 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to
improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our
plants, equipment and processes.

Environmental
Matters

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of
remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a
disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to
approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such
remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion over the next two years.

(12)

In
November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent
decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for
implementation of EPA's 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB)-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent
degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed
in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel
will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to
Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase
I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is
expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer
review panel's recommendations, GE's proposed changes, and its own analysis,
will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or
performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPA's decision, GE has 90 days to
either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE
may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of
December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of
the project under the consent decree.

Employee
Relations

At
year-end 2009, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed
approximately 304,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in
the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6.
“Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Approximately
15,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are
represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 110
different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union
locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA,
The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC.
During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions
representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United
States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011.

Approximately
3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United
States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a
party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates
and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE
affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with
varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,400
employees.

Executive
Officers

See Part
III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this
Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the
Registrant.

Other

Because
of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic
dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely
affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.

We own,
or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being
obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents
expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to
others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent
or group of related patents.

(13)

Sales of
goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of
revenues follow.

GE is a
trademark and service mark of General Electric Company.

The
Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,
www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate
Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports
filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public
Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the
Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience
and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by
reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.
Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this
report.

Item
1A. Risk Factors.

The
following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as
discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to
understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The
following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related
notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this
Form 10-K Report.

Our
businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our
future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we
presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our
businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business
descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe
certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material
future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments
will affect our future results.

Our
global growth is subject to economic and political risks.

We
conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2009,
approximately 54% of our revenues was attributable to activities outside the
United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition.
They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation,
recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be
disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our
activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged
using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such
attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our
ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as
a result of current market conditions.

We
are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that may change in
significant ways.

Our
businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and
state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies.

(14)

There
can be no assurance that laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that
will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our
returns on investments by making existing practices more restricted, subject to
escalating costs or prohibited outright. In particular, U.S. and non-U.S.
governments are undertaking a substantial review and revision of the regulation
and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions, consumer lending,
the over-the-counter derivatives market and tax laws and regulations, which may
have a significant effect on GE Capital’s structure, operations, liquidity and
performance. We are also subject to a number of trade control laws and
regulations that may affect our ability to sell our products in global markets.
In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the
allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local capital requirements
that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve assets, and changes to
tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE’s effective
tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely
reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A
significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law
that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services
income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This
provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial
services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. banks and other
non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which expired
at the end of 2009, has been scheduled to expire and has been extended by
Congress on five previous occasions, including in October of 2008. A one-year
extension was passed by the House of Representatives in 2009 and the Senate
Finance Committee Chairman and Ranking Member have indicated an intention to
extend the provision for one year retroactive to the beginning of 2010, but
there can be no assurance that it will be extended. In the event the provision
is not extended after 2009, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial
services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more
difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If
this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase
significantly after 2010. The executive branch of the U.S. government recently
proposed the Financial Responsibility Crisis Fee, which would require us to pay
a fee at an annual rate of 15 basis points based on the amount of covered
liabilities (defined as assets less the sum of Tier 1 capital and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-assessed deposits). This proposal is at an
early stage, and its impact on the company, if any, will depend on a number of
factors that are subject to congressional review and approval. If adopted, this
fee could result in a reduction of our earnings going forward. In addition, the
U.S. government is currently considering broad-based legislation to change
healthcare coverage, that includes provisions for a fee on medical devices,
which could adversely affect the profitability of our Healthcare business and
increase the costs of providing healthcare to our employees. Furthermore, we
have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international
economic stimulus programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental
regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect
our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations,
financial position and cash flows.

We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance
risks.

We are
subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We and our
subsidiaries, our businesses and the industries in which we operate are at times
being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement
actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and
damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number
of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a
40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in
Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain
other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form
10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management
and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means
that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal
proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted
with certainty, will arise from time to time.

(15)

The
success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic
acquisitions and dispositions.

With
respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable
candidates at terms acceptable to us or may not achieve expected returns and
other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration challenges,
such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential
disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our
objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms
in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic
objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms
that are less than we had anticipated. Even upon reaching an agreement with a
buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject
to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which
may prevent us from completing the transaction. For example, we recently entered
into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU
business to a newly formed entity, pursuant to which we will receive cash and
will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. The transaction is subject
to receipt of various regulatory approvals. In addition, there is a risk that we
may sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in
which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise
value.

Sustained
increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our
profitability.

Our
results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of
income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income
or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect
assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may
change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant
year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension income or expense for 2010 are
the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plans assets. In
addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and
liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a
reduction or increase to Accumulated gains (losses) – net, Benefit plans. At the
end of 2009, the projected benefit obligation of our U.S. principal pension
plans was $48.1 billion and assets were $42.1 billion. For a discussion
regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan
accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension Assumptions in
Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form
10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not
directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also
likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as
required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to
achieve expected returns on plan assets could also result in an increase to the
amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition,
upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare benefits to current
employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have
actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance
that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure
could reduce our profitability.

(16)

Conditions
in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of GE
Capital’s funding.

A large
portion of GE Capital’s borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and
long-term debt. GE Capital’s outstanding commercial paper and long-term debt was
$42 billion and $399 billion as of December 31, 2009, respectively. While we
have fully prefunded our planned 2010 long-term debt requirements, we continue
to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for
term maturities beyond 2010. In addition, we rely on the availability of the
commercial paper markets to refinance maturing short-term commercial paper debt
throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, we also
plan to expand our reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank
deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no
assurance that we will succeed in diversifying our funding sources or that the
short and long-term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the
cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect the overall
profitability of GE Capital. Factors that may cause an increase in our funding
costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding, such as commercial
paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; refinancing of funding that
we have obtained under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) at
market rates at the time such funding matures; decreased capacity and increased
competition among debt issuers; and our credit ratings in effect at the time of
refinancing. If GE Capital’s cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely
affect its competitive position and result in lower lending margins, earnings
and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowner’s equity and invested
capital. While we currently do not anticipate any equity offerings, other
sources of funding that involve the issuance of additional equity securities
would be dilutive to our existing shareowners.

Difficult
conditions in the financial services markets have materially and adversely
affected the business and results of operations of GE Capital and these
conditions may persist.

Declines
in the real estate markets, increased payment defaults and foreclosures and
sustained levels of high unemployment have resulted in significant write-downs
of asset values by financial institutions, including GE Capital. If these
conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and
tax assets. In addition, although we

have established
allowances for losses in GE Capital’s portfolio of financing receivables that we
believe are adequate, further deterioration in the economy and in default and
recovery rates could require us to increase these allowances and write-offs,
which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse
effect on our

business

,

financial position and
results of operations. To reduce GE’s exposure to volatile conditions in the
financial markets and rebalance the relative size of its financial and
industrial businesses, we have decided to reduce the size of GE Capital, as
measured by its ending net investment. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to timely execute on our reduction targets and failure to do so would
result in greater exposure to financial markets than contemplated under our
strategic funding plan or may result in the need for us to make additional
contributions to GE Capital.

The
soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE
Capital.

GE
Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and
routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and
other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to
credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition,
GE Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be
realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has
exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating
to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties
(as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report),
which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no
assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of
financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s
business, financial position and results of operations.

(17)

The
real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly
uncertain.

GE
Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it
provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various
types of properties, and it also acquires equity positions in various types of
properties. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent
upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the
properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of
sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets may vary significantly
from one year to the next. Continued high levels of unemployment, slowdown in
business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit
are expected to continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and
collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under current market and
credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital
will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates
and market rentals may worsen, which may result in impairments to the carrying
value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on
commercial real estate loans.

GE
Capital is also a residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets
outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely
affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses,
consumer bankruptcies and other factors that may negatively impact the credit
performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these
mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency
and loan performance, as well as other management assumptions that may be
inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be
no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be
materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely
affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of
operations.

Failure
to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets.

The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based
on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency
with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In March 2009,
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded GE and GE Capital’s long-term rating
by one notch from “AAA” to “AA+” and, at the same time, revised the outlook from
negative to stable. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) downgraded
GE and GE Capital’s long-term rating by two notches from “Aaa” to “Aa2” with a
stable outlook. The short-term ratings of “A-1+/P-1” were affirmed by both
rating agencies at the same time with respect to GE, GE Capital Services and GE
Capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit
ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
Various debt instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting
additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which,
depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity and capital position.

(18)

Current
conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may
materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our
non-financial businesses.

The
business and operating results of our technology infrastructure, energy
infrastructure, consumer and industrial and media businesses have been, and will
continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions
in the air and rail transportation, energy generation, healthcare, media and
other major industries we serve. As a result of slowing global economic growth,
the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased
unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity
prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global
economy, some of our customers have experienced deterioration of their
businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a
result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase
our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not
be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. In particular,
the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel
is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. A
prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or internationally that continues to
result in the loss of business and leisure traffic could have a material adverse
effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service
contract cancellations could affect our ability to fully recover our contract
costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar
conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us.
If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is
significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of
operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely
affected.

We
are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product
innovations for continued revenue growth.

The
markets in which we operate are subject to technological change. Our long-term
operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop,
introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products,
to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet
customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process,
including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of
technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new
products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer
demands.

Our
Intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently
developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours, and we may
not be able to obtain necessary licenses.

Our
patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from
independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of
ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect
our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property
portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our
technology. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic
enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities.
Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be
expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights,
we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from
offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances
that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need
in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on
reasonable terms.

Significant
raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production
disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our
operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our
products.

Our
reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers
and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems
used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of
these materials, parts, components, systems and services. A disruption in
deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service
providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or
decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse
effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our
operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also
adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and
result in liability and reputational harm.

(19)

There
are risks inherent in owning our common stock.

The
market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be,
subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market
conditions, the impact of the risk factors described above on our financial
condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market
regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors. Changes in the
amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect
the value of our common stock.

Item
1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

Not
applicable.

Item
2.

Properties.

Manufacturing
operations are carried out at approximately 235 manufacturing plants located in
40 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at approximately 240
manufacturing plants located in 41 other countries.

Item
3.

Legal Proceedings.

As
previously reported, in July and September 2008, shareholders filed two
purported class actions under the federal securities laws in the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut naming us as defendant, as well
as our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. These two actions
have been consolidated, and in January 2009, a consolidated complaint was filed
alleging that we and our chief executive officer made false and misleading
statements that artificially inflated our stock price between March 12, 2008 and
April 10, 2008, when we announced that our results for the first quarter of 2008
would not meet our previous guidance and we also lowered our full year guidance
for 2008. The case seeks unspecified damages. Our motion to dismiss the
consolidated complaint was filed in March 2009 and is currently under
consideration by the court. We intend to defend ourselves
vigorously.

As
previously reported, in October 2008, shareholders filed a purported class
action under the federal securities laws in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York naming us as defendant, as well as our chief
executive officer and chief financial officer. The complaint alleges that during
a conference call with analysts on September 25, 2008, defendants made false and
misleading statements concerning (i) the state of GE’s funding, cash flows, and
liquidity and (ii) the question of issuing additional equity, which caused
economic loss to those shareholders who purchased GE stock between September 25,
2008 and October 2, 2008, when we announced the pricing of a common stock
offering. The case seeks unspecified damages. Our motion to dismiss the second
amended complaint was filed in January 2010 and is currently under consideration
by the court. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously.

As
previously reported, in March and April 2009, shareholders filed purported class
actions under the federal securities laws in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York naming as defendants GE, a number of GE
officers (including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer) and
our directors. The complaints, which have now been consolidated, seek
unspecified damages based on allegations related to statements regarding the GE
dividend and projected losses and earnings for GE Capital in 2009. Our motion to
dismiss the consolidated complaint was filed in November 2009 and is currently
under consideration by the court. A shareholder derivative action has been filed
in federal court in Connecticut in May 2009 making essentially the same
allegations as the New York actions. We have moved to consolidate the
Connecticut derivative action with the recently consolidated New York actions.
We intend to defend ourselves vigorously.

(20)

As
previously reported, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ)
and the SEC are conducting an industry-wide investigation of marketing and sales
of guaranteed investment contracts, and other financial instruments, to
municipalities. In connection with this investigation, two subsidiaries of GE
Capital have received subpoenas and requests for information in connection with
the investigation: GE Funding CMS (Trinity Funding Co.) and GE Funding Capital
Market Services, Inc. (GE FCMS). GE Capital has cooperated and continues to
cooperate fully with the SEC and DOJ in this matter. In July 2008, GE FCMS
received a “Wells notice” advising that the SEC staff is considering
recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action or institute an
administrative proceeding in connection with the bidding for various financial
instruments associated with municipal securities by certain former employees of
GE FCMS. GE FCMS is one of several industry participants that received Wells
notices during 2008. GE FCMS disagrees with the SEC staff regarding this
recommendation and has been in discussions with the staff, including discussion
of potential resolution of the matter. GE FCMS intends to continue these
discussions and understands that it will have the opportunity to address any
disagreements with the SEC staff with respect to its recommendation through the
Wells process with the full Commission. In March 2008, GE FCMS and Trinity
Funding Co., LLC (Trinity Funding) were served with a federal class action
complaint asserting antitrust violations. This action has been combined with
other related actions in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In addition, GE
FCMS and Trinity Funding also received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of
the State of Connecticut and Florida on behalf of a working group of State
Attorneys General in June 2008. GE FCMS and Trinity Funding are cooperating with
those investigations.

As
previously reported, and in compliance with SEC requirements to disclose
environmental proceedings potentially involving monetary sanctions of $100,000
or greater, in June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a
notice of violation alleging non-compliance with the Clean Air Act at a power
cogeneration plant in Homer City, PA. The plant is operated exclusively by EME
Homer City Generation L.P., and is owned and leased to EME Homer City Generation
L.P. by subsidiaries of GE Capital. The notice of violation does not indicate a
specific penalty amount but makes reference to statutory fines. We believe that
we have meritorious defenses and that EME Homer City Generation L.P. is
obligated to indemnify GE Capital’s subsidiaries and pay all costs associated
with this matter.

Item
4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.

Not
applicable.

(21)

Part
II

Item
5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

With
respect to “Market Information,” in the United States, GE common stock is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange (its principal market). GE common stock is also
listed on the London Stock Exchange and on Euronext Paris. Trading prices, as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Composite Transactions Tape, and
dividend information follow:

As of
January 31, 2010, there were approximately 598,000 shareowner accounts of
record.

(22)

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, we purchased shares of our common stock as
follows.

(a)

Information
      is presented on a fiscal calendar basis, consistent with our quarterly
      financial reporting.

(b)

This
      category includes 744 thousand shares repurchased from our various benefit
      plans, primarily the GE Savings and Security Program (the S&SP).
      Through the S&SP, a defined contribution plan with Internal Revenue
      Service Code 401(k) features, we repurchase shares resulting from changes
      in investment options by plan
participants.

(c)

This
      balance represents the number of shares that were repurchased from the GE
      Stock Direct Plan, a direct stock purchase plan that is available to the
      public. Repurchases from GE Stock Direct are part of the 2007 GE Share
      Repurchase Program (the Program) under which we are authorized to
      repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock through 2010. The Program
      is flexible and shares are acquired with a combination of borrowings and
      free cash flow from the public markets and other sources, including GE
      Stock Direct. Effective September 25, 2008, we suspended the Program for
      purchases other than from GE Stock
Direct.

For
information regarding compensation plans under which equity securities are
authorized for issuance, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(23)

Five-year
financial performance graph: 2005-2009

Comparison
of five-year cumulative return among GE, S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial
Average

The
annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph on this page are
based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in GE stock, the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
(DJIA) on December 31, 2004, and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested.
The total cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that
such investments would have had on December 31, 2009.

(24)

Item
6.

Selected Financial Data.

The
following table provides key information for Consolidated, GE and
GECS.

Transactions
      between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated
      information.

(a)

Included
      $300 million and $75 million of preferred stock dividends in 2009 and
      2008, respectively.

(b)

Indicates
      terms are defined in the Glossary.

(c)

In
      2009, we consolidated BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) as a result of an
      increase in our ownership from 49.99% to
75%.

(d)

Ratios
      of 5.22:1 and 7.07:1 for 2009 and 2008, respectively, net of cash and
      equivalents and with classification of hybrid debt as
    equity.

(25)

Item
7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

Operations

Our
consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services
and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial
services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or
financial services).

In the
accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information
derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our
financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered “non-GAAP
financial measures” under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and
reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section.

We
present Management’s Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our
Earnings from 2007 through 2009, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations,
Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we
refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations
attributable to the company simply as “revenues” and “earnings” throughout this
Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in
our consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations unless
otherwise indicated.

Effective
January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer &
Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization,
we created a new segment called Home & Business Solutions that includes the
Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer & Industrial
segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business
of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology
Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous
Consumer & Industrial segment and the Sensing & Inspection Technologies
and Digital Energy businesses of our previous Enterprise Solutions business are
now part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The
Security business of Enterprise Solutions will be reported in Corporate Items
and Eliminations pending its expected sale. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the
Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the
continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the
Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital
Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and Leasing
(CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will
be included in CLL.

Results
for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our
business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization described
above.

Overview
of Our Earnings from 2007 through 2009

Net
earnings attributable to the Company decreased 37% in 2009 and 22% in 2008,
reflecting the challenging economic conditions of the last two years and the
effect on both our industrial and financial services businesses. Our financial
services businesses were most significantly affected as GECS net earnings
attributable to the Company fell 80% in 2009 and 32% in 2008. Excluding the
financial services businesses, our net earnings attributable to the Company
decreased 7% in 2009 and 13% in 2008, reflecting the weakened global economy and
challenging market conditions. We believe that we are beginning to see signs of
stabilization in the global economy. We have a strong backlog entering 2010 and
are positioned for global growth in 2011 and 2012.

Energy
Infrastructure (21% and 24% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) has grown significantly over the last several
years as the worldwide demand for energy, and for alternative sources of power,
such as wind and thermal, rose to new levels. Revenues decreased 4% in 2009
after increasing 26% in 2008, and segment profit increased 13% and 26% in 2009
and 2008, respectively. We continue to invest in market-leading technology and
services at Energy and Oil & Gas.

(26)

Technology
Infrastructure (26% and 31% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) revenues and earnings both fell 8% in 2009 after
rising 8% and 3%, respectively, in 2008. We continue to invest in market-leading
technologies and services at Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Aviation
generated strong revenues and earnings as one of the world’s leading providers
of aircraft engines and services. Healthcare revenues and earnings trended down
in 2009, reflecting the generally weak global economic conditions and continued
uncertainty in the healthcare markets. Transportation revenues and earnings fell
24% and 51%, respectively, in 2009 after rising 11% and 3%, respectively, in
2008 as the weakened economy has driven overall reductions in U.S. freight
traffic and we updated our estimate of long-term product service
costs.

NBC
Universal (NBCU) (9% and 11% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company
that has grown over the past several years through business and geographic
diversity. NBCU revenues fell 9% and earnings decreased 28% in 2009 compared
with a 10% increase in revenues and flat earnings in 2008. While the television
and film businesses continue to be challenged by the effects of a difficult
economy, our cable business continues to grow and become more profitable. In
2010, we expect to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed
entity, which will consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's
cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain
unconsolidated investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash
and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have
classified NBCU assets and liabilities as held for sale in our Statement of
Financial Position.

Capital
Finance (36% and 31% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment
profit, respectively) earnings declined to $2.3 billion and $8.6 billion in 2009
and 2008, respectively, in a challenging economic environment, including
disruptions in capital markets, challenging credit markets and rising
unemployment. Throughout 2008 and 2009, we tightened underwriting standards,
shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk
management focus. We also reduced our ending net investment (ENI), excluding the
effects of currency exchange rates, from $525 billion at December 31, 2008 to
$472 billion at December 31, 2009. The current credit cycle has begun to show
signs of stabilization and we expect further signs of stabilization as we enter
2010. Our focus is to continue to manage through the current challenging credit
environment and continue to reposition General Electric Capital Corporation (GE
Capital) as a diversely funded and smaller, more focused finance company with
strong positions in several mid-market, corporate and consumer financing
segments.

Consumer
& Industrial (7% and 2% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) is also sensitive to changes in economic
conditions. Reflective of the downturn in the U.S. housing market, Consumer
& Industrial revenues have declined 17% in 2009 and 7% in 2008. Over the
past two years, Consumer & Industrial has worked to reposition its business
by eliminating capacity in its incandescent lighting manufacturing sites and
investing in energy efficient product manufacturing in locations such as
Louisville, Kentucky and Bloomington, Indiana. Segment profit increased 10% in
2009 on higher prices and lower material costs and reflects these cost reduction
efforts after declining 65% in 2008, primarily on higher material and other
costs.

Overall,
acquisitions contributed $3.4 billion, $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion to
consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, excluding the
effects of acquisition gains following our adoption of an amendment to Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810,

Consolidation

. Our
consolidated net earnings included approximately $0.5 billion, $0.8 billion and
$0.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from acquired businesses. We
integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from
the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following
quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our
ongoing results through lower revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, higher revenues
of $0.1 billion in 2008 and lower revenues of $3.6 billion in 2007. The effects
of dispositions on net earnings were increases of $0.6 billion in 2009 and $0.4
billion in both 2008 and 2007.

Significant
matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below.

(27)

Discontinued Operations.

In
September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan
business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese
regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not
permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE
Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card
businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In
December 2007, we completed the exit of WMC as a result of continued pressures
in the U.S. subprime mortgage industry. Both of these businesses were previously
reported in the Capital Finance segment.

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business. We sold this
business because of its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw
materials, and the decision to redeploy capital resources into higher-growth
businesses.

We
reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all
periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

We declared $6.8 billion in dividends
in 2009.

Common per-share dividends of $0.61 were down 51% from 2008,
following an 8% increase from the preceding year. In February 2009, we announced
the reduction of the quarterly GE stock dividend by 68% from $0.31 per share to
$0.10 per share, effective with the dividend approved by the Board in June 2009,
which was paid in the third quarter. This reduction had the effect of reducing
cash outflows of the company by approximately $4 billion in the second half of
2009 and will save approximately $9 billion annually thereafter. On February 12,
2010, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per
share of common stock, which is payable April 26, 2010, to shareowners of record
at close of business on March 1, 2010. In 2009, we declared $0.3 billion in
preferred stock dividends compared with $0.1 billion in 2008.

Except
as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents the
results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment
Operations section for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE
and GECS.

GE sales of product services

were $35.4 billion in 2009, about flat compared with 2008. Increases in product
services at Energy Infrastructure were offset by decreases at Technology
Infrastructure and Consumer & Industrial. Operating profit from product
services was $10.0 billion in 2009, up 7% from 2008.

Postretirement benefit plans

costs were $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.6 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Costs increased in 2009 primarily because of the effects of lower
discount rates (principal pension plans discount rate decreased from 6.34% at
December 31, 2007 to 6.11% at December 31, 2008) and increases in early
retirements resulting from restructuring activities and contractual
requirements, partially offset by amortization of prior-years' investment gains
and benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts. Costs decreased in 2008
primarily because of the effects of prior years' investment gains, higher
discount rates and benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts, partially
offset by additional costs of plan benefits resulting from union negotiations
and a pensioner increase in 2007.

Considering
the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected
returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we have
assumed that long-term returns on our principal pension plan assets will be 8.5%
for cost recognition in 2010, the same level as we assumed in 2009, 2008 and
2007. GAAP provides recognition of differences between assumed and actual
returns over a period no longer than the average future service of
employees.

We
expect the costs of our postretirement benefits, excluding the effects of 2009
restructuring activities, to increase in 2010 by approximately $1.0 billion as
compared to 2009, primarily because of the effects of prior-year investment
losses and lower discount rates.

(28)

Our
principal pension plans were underfunded by $6.0 billion at the end of 2009 as
compared to $4.4 billion at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, the GE
Pension Plan was underfunded by $2.2 billion and the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan, which is an unfunded plan, had a projected benefit obligation of $3.8
billion. The increase in underfunding from year-end 2008 was primarily
attributable to lower discount rates (principal pension plans discount rate
decreased from 6.11% at December 31, 2008 to 5.78% at December 31, 2009, which
increased the pension benefit obligation at year-end 2009 by approximately $1.7
billion). Our principal pension plans’ assets increased from $40.7 billion at
the end of 2008 to $42.1 billion at December 31, 2009, a 10.0% increase in
investment values during the year, partially offset by benefit payments. Assets
of the GE Pension Plan are held in trust, solely for the benefit of Plan
participants, and are not available for general company operations.

On an
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) basis, the GE Pension Plan
remains fully funded at January 1, 2010. We will not make any contributions to
the GE Pension Plan in 2010. Assuming our 2010 actual experience is consistent
with our current benefit assumptions (e.g., expected return on assets and
interest rates), we will not be required to make contributions to the GE Pension
Plan in 2011.

At
December 31, 2009, the fair value of assets for our other pension plans was $2.7
billion less than the respective projected benefit obligations. The comparable
amount at December 31, 2008, was $2.4 billion. We expect to contribute $0.6
billion to our other pension plans in 2010, compared with actual contributions
of $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We fund our
retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. The unfunded liability for our
principal retiree health and life plans was $11.6 billion and $10.8 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This increase was primarily
attributable to lower discount rates (retiree health and life plans discount
rate decreased from 6.15% at December 31, 2008 to 5.67% at December 31, 2009),
which increased the unfunded liability by approximately $0.6 billion. We expect
to contribute $0.7 billion to these plans in 2010 compared with actual
contributions of $0.6 billion in 2009 and 2008.

The
funded status of our postretirement benefits plans and future effects on
operating results depend on economic conditions and investment performance. See
Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report for additional
information about funded status, components of earnings effects and actuarial
assumptions.

GE other costs and expenses

are selling, general and administrative expenses. These costs were 14.3%, 12.9%
and 14.2% of total GE sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Interest on borrowings and other
financial charges

amounted to $18.8 billion, $26.2 billion and $23.8
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Substantially all of our
borrowings are in financial services, where interest expense was $17.9 billion,
$25.1 billion and $22.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. GECS
average borrowings declined from 2008 to 2009 after increasing from 2007 to
2008, in line with changes in average GECS assets. Interest rates have decreased
over the three-year period attributable to declining global benchmark interest
rates, partially offset by higher average credit spreads. GECS average
borrowings were $499.2 billion, $521.2 billion and $456.4 billion in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. The GECS average composite effective interest rate was
3.6% in 2009, 4.8% in 2008 and 5.0% in 2007. In 2009, GECS average assets of
$649.6 billion were 3% lower than in 2008, which in turn were 13% higher than in
2007. We anticipate that GECS composite effective rates will begin to rise in
2010 as benchmark rates begin to rise globally. See the Liquidity and Borrowings
section for a discussion of liquidity, borrowings and interest rate risk
management.

Income taxes

have a
significant effect on our net earnings. As a global commercial enterprise, our
tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings,
the extent to which those global earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside
the United States, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions and tax
characteristics of our income. Our tax returns are routinely audited and
settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax
provisions.

(29)

Income
taxes (benefit) on consolidated earnings from continuing operations were (10.5)%
in 2009 compared with 5.3% in 2008 and 15.1% in 2007. Our consolidated income
tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of benefits
from lower-taxed global operations, including the use of global funding
structures, and our 2009 and 2008 decisions to indefinitely reinvest prior-year
earnings outside the U.S.

Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of a
reduction during 2009 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased
the relative effect of our tax benefits from lower-taxed global operations,
including the decision, discussed below, to indefinitely reinvest prior-year
earnings outside the U.S. These effects were partially offset by a decrease from
2008 to 2009 in the benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global
operations.

Cash
taxes paid in 2009 were $2.5 billion, reflecting the effects of changes to
temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and
their tax bases, including the decision, discussed below, to indefinitely
reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S.

Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of a
reduction during 2008 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased
the relative effect of tax benefits from lower-taxed global operations on the
tax rate. In addition, earnings from lower-taxed global operations increased
from 2007 to 2008. The increase in the benefit from lower-taxed global
operations includes a benefit from the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S., because the use of foreign tax credits no
longer required the repatriation of those prior-year earnings.

A more
detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the
consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax provisions,
is provided in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. The
nature of business activities and associated income taxes differ for GE and for
GECS and a separate analysis of each is presented in the paragraphs that
follow.

Because
GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax
rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. GE pre-tax
earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from continuing
operations, were $12.6 billion, $14.2 billion and $13.5 billion for 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. On this basis, GE’s effective tax rate was 21.8% in
2009, 24.2% in 2008 and 20.6% in 2007.

Resolution
of audit matters reduced the GE effective tax rate throughout this period. The
effects of such resolutions are included in the following captions in Note 14 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

The GE
effective tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of the 3.6
percentage point increase in the benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global
operations, excluding audit resolutions.

The GE
effective tax rate increased from 2007 to 2008 because of the 4.3 percentage
point lower 2008 benefit from favorable audit resolutions, partially offset by a
1.2 percentage point increase in the benefit in lower-taxed earnings from global
operations, excluding audit resolutions.

The 2007
GE rate reflects the favorable audit resolutions shown above and the benefit of
lower-taxed earnings from global operations.

(30)

The GECS
effective tax rate was 173.4% in 2009, compared with (42.2)% in 2008 and 9.7% in
2007. GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return that
enables GE to use GECS tax deductions and credits to reduce the tax that
otherwise would have been payable by GE. The GECS effective tax rate for each
period reflects the benefit of these tax reductions. GE makes cash payments to
GECS for these tax reductions at the time GE’s tax payments are
due.

Comparing
a tax benefit to pre-tax income resulted in a negative GECS tax rate in 2008 and
comparing a tax benefit to pre-tax loss results in the positive GECS tax rate in
2009. The GECS tax rate increased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of a
reduction during 2009 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This had the
effect of increasing the relative impact on the rate of tax benefits from
lower-taxed global operations, increasing the rate 253.2 percentage points. This
more than offset the decline in those benefits decreasing the rate 68.1
percentage points. The decline in tax benefits from lower-taxed global
operations includes an offset of 15.9 percentage points for increased benefits
from management’s decision (discussed below) in 2009 to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S. that was larger than the 2008 decision to
indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S.

During
2009, following the change in our external credit ratings, funding actions taken
and our continued review of our operations, liquidity and funding, we determined
that undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on
which we had previously provided deferred U.S. taxes, would now be indefinitely
reinvested outside the U.S. This change increased the amount of prior-year
earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion,
resulting in an income tax benefit of $0.7 billion in 2009.

The GECS
rate decreased from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of a reduction during 2008 of
income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased the relative effect of tax
benefits from lower-taxed global operations on the tax rate, reducing the rate
30.8 percentage points. In addition, earnings from lower-taxed global operations
increased from 2007 to 2008, causing an additional 19.9 percentage point rate
reduction. The increase in the benefit from lower taxed global operations
includes 6.2 percentage points from the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S. because the use of foreign tax credits no
longer required the repatriation of those prior-year earnings.

Global
Risk Management

A
disciplined approach to risk is important in a diversified organization such as
ours in order to ensure that we are

executing
according to our strategic objectives and that we only accept risk for which we
are adequately

compensated.
We evaluate risk at the individual transaction level, and evaluate aggregate
risk at the customer, industry, geographic and collateral-type levels, where
appropriate.

The GE
Board of Directors (Board) has overall responsibility for risk oversight with a
focus on the most significant risks facing the company. At the end of each year,
management and the Board jointly develop a list of major risks that GE plans to
prioritize in the next year. Throughout the year, the Board and the committees
to which it has delegated responsibility dedicate a portion of their meetings to
review and discuss specific risk topics in greater detail. Strategic and
operational risks are presented and discussed in the context of the CEO’s report
on operations to the Board at regularly scheduled Board meetings and at
presentations to the Board and its committees by the vice chairmen, general
counsel and other officers. The Board has delegated responsibility for the
oversight of specific risks to Board committees as follows:

(31)

·

The
      Audit Committee oversees GE’s risk policies and processes relating to the
      financial statements and financial reporting processes, and key credit
      risks, liquidity risks, markets risks, compliance and the guidelines,
      policies and processes for monitoring and mitigating those risks. As part
      of its risk oversight responsibilities for GE overall, the Audit Committee
      also oversees risks related to GECS. At least two times a year, the Audit
      Committee receives a risk update, which focuses on the principal risks
      affecting GE as well as reporting on the company’s risk assessment and
      risk management guidelines, policies and processes; and the Audit
      Committee annually conducts an assessment of compliance issues and
      programs.

·

The
      Public Responsibilities Committee oversees risks related to GE’s public
      policy initiatives, the environment and similar
  matters.

·

The
      Management Development and Compensation Committee monitors the risks
      associated with management resources, structure, succession planning,
      development and selection processes, including evaluating the effect
      compensation structure may have on risk
  decisions.

·

The
      Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to
      the company’s governance structure and processes and risks arising from
      related person transactions.

The GE
Board’s risk oversight process builds upon management’s risk assessment and
mitigation processes, which include standardized reviews of long-term strategic
and operational planning; executive development and evaluation; regulatory and
litigation compliance; health, safety and environmental compliance; financial
reporting and controllership; and information technology and security. In August
2009, GE appointed a chief risk officer (CRO) with responsibility for overseeing
and coordinating risk assessment and mitigation on an enterprise-wide basis. The
CRO leads the Corporate Risk Function and is responsible for the identification
of key business risks, ensuring appropriate management of these risks within
stated limits, and enforcement through policies and procedures. Management has
two committees to further assist it in assessing and mitigating risk. The Policy
Compliance Review Board (PCRB) meets between 12 and 14 times a year, is chaired
by the company’s general counsel and includes the chief financial officer and
other senior level functional leaders. It has principal responsibility for
monitoring compliance matters across the company. The Corporate Risk Committee
(CRC) meets at least four times a year, is chaired by the CRO and comprises the
Chairman and CEO and other senior level business and functional leaders. It has
principal responsibility for evaluating and addressing risks escalated to the
CRO and Corporate Risk Function and also reports to the Board on
risk.

GE's
Corporate Risk Function leverages the risk infrastructures in each of our
businesses, which have adopted an approach that corresponds to the company’s
overall risk policies, guidelines and review mechanisms. Our risk infrastructure
is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks within each of the
following categories:

(32)

·

Strategic.

Strategic
      risk relates to the company’s future business plans and strategies,
      including the risks associated with the markets and industries in which we
      operate, demand for our products and services, competitive threats,
      technology and product innovation, mergers and acquisitions and public
      policy.

·

Operational.

Operational
      risk relates to the effectiveness of our people, integrity of our internal
      systems and processes, as well as external events that affect the
      operation of our businesses. It includes product life cycle and execution,
      product performance, information management and data security, business
      disruption, human resources and
reputation.

·

Financial.

Financial
      risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate
      credit risk, liquidity risk and exposure to broad market risks, including
      volatility in foreign currency exchange and interest rates and commodity
      prices. Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to accommodate
      liability maturities, fund asset growth and meet contractual obligations
      through access to funding at reasonable market rates and credit risk is
      the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty failure
      to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our industrial
      businesses, as well as in our GECS investing, lending and leasing
      activities and derivative financial instruments
  activities.

·

Legal and Compliance.

Legal and compliance risk relates to changes in the government and
      regulatory environment, compliance requirements with policies and
      procedures, including those relating to financial reporting, environmental
      health and safety, and intellectual property risks. Government and
      regulatory risk is the risk that the government or regulatory actions will
      cause us to have to change our business models or
    practices.

Risks
identified through our risk management processes are prioritized and, depending
on the probability and severity of the risk, escalated to the CRO. The CRO, in
coordination with the CRC, assigns responsibility of the risks to the business
or functional leader most suited to manage the risk. Assigned owners are
required to continually monitor, evaluate and report on risks for which they
bear responsibility. We have general response strategies for managing risks,
which categorize risks according to whether the company will avoid, transfer,
reduce or accept the risk. These response strategies are tailored to ensure that
risks are within acceptable GE Board tolerance levels.

Depending
on the nature of the risk involved and the particular business or function
affected, we use a wide variety of risk mitigation strategies, including
hedging, standardized processes, approvals and operating reviews, insurance and
strategic planning reviews. As a matter of policy, we generally hedge the risk
of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
prices. Our service businesses employ a comprehensive tollgate process leading
up to and through the execution of a contractual service agreement to mitigate
legal, financial and operational risks. Furthermore, we centrally manage certain
risks through insurance determined by the balance between the level of risk
retained or assumed and the cost of transferring risk to others. We counteract
the risk of fluctuations in economic activity and customer demand by monitoring
industry dynamics and responding accordingly, including by adjusting capacity,
implementing cost reductions and engaging in mergers and
acquisitions.

GECS
Risk Management and Oversight

GECS has
developed a robust risk infrastructure and processes to manage risks related to
its businesses and the GE Corporate Risk Function relies upon them in
fulfillment of its mission. As discussed above, the GE Audit Committee oversees
GECS’ risk assessment and management processes.

At the
GECS level, the GECS Board of Directors oversees the GECS risk management
process, and approves all significant acquisitions and dispositions as well as
significant borrowings and investments. All participants in the GECS risk
management process must comply with approval limits established by the GECS
Board.

(33)

GE
Capital has established an Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC),
comprising the most senior leaders in GE Capital, which has oversight
responsibility for identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring risk across
the entire GE Capital enterprise, including credit, market, operational, legal
& compliance, liquidity and funding risk. GE Capital, in coordination with
and under the oversight of the GE CRO, provides comprehensive risk reports to
the GE Audit Committee. At these meetings, which will occur at least four times
a year, GE Capital senior management will focus on the risk strategy and
financial services portfolio, including the risk oversight processes used to
manage all the elements of risk managed by the ERMC.

GE
Capital's risk management approach rests upon three major tenets: a broad spread
of risk based on managed exposure limits; senior, secured commercial financings;
and a hold to maturity model with transactions underwritten to “on-book”
standards.

Dedicated
risk professionals across the businesses include underwriters, portfolio
managers, collectors, environmental and engineering specialists, and specialized
asset managers who evaluate leased asset residuals and remarket off-lease
equipment. The senior risk officers have, on average, over 25 years of
experience.

Additional
information about our liquidity and how we manage this risk can be found in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity section of this Item and in Notes 10 and 22 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Additional
information about our credit risk and GECS portfolio can be found in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity and Critical Accounting Estimates sections of
this Item and Notes 1, 3, 6, 22 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form
10-K Report.

Segment
Operations

Our five
segments are focused on the broad markets they serve: Energy Infrastructure,
Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer &
Industrial. In addition to providing information on segments in their entirety,
we have also provided supplemental information for certain businesses within the
segments for greater clarity.

Segment
profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by the Chief
Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period.
In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude
matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar
expenses; in-process research and development and certain other
acquisition-related charges and balances; technology and product development
costs; certain gains and losses from acquisitions or dispositions; and
litigation settlements or other charges, responsibility for which preceded the
current management team.

Segment
profit always excludes the effects of principal pension plans, results reported
as discontinued operations, earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests of
consolidated subsidiaries and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or
includes interest and other financial charges and income taxes according to how
a particular segment’s management is measured – excluded in determining segment
profit, which we sometimes refer to as “operating profit,” for Energy
Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer &
Industrial; included in determining segment profit, which we sometimes refer to
as “net earnings,” for Capital Finance.

We have
reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to the current period’s
presentation. For additional information about our segments, see Item 1.
"Business" in Part I and Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(34)

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial
  statements.

(a)

Effective
      January 1, 2009, our Water business was combined with Energy. Prior-period
      amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period's
      presentation.

Energy
Infrastructure segment revenues decreased 4%, or $1.4 billion, in 2009 as higher
prices ($1.3 billion) were more than offset by lower volume ($1.6 billion), the
stronger U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion) and lower other income ($0.5 billion),
primarily related to lower earnings from associated companies and marks on
foreign currency contracts. The increase in price was primarily at Energy. The
decrease in volume reflected decreased equipment sales at Energy, partially
offset by increased equipment sales at Oil & Gas. The effects of the
stronger U.S. dollar were at both Energy and Oil & Gas.

(35)

Segment
profit increased 13% to $6.8 billion, compared with $6.1 billion in 2008, as
higher prices ($1.3 billion) and lower material and other costs ($0.5 billion)
were partially offset by lower other income ($0.7 billion), primarily related to
lower earnings from associated companies and marks on foreign currency
contracts, and lower volume ($0.2 billion). Lower material and other costs were
primarily at Energy. Lower volume at Energy was partially offset by higher
volume at Oil & Gas.

Energy
Infrastructure segment revenues rose 26%, or $7.9 billion, in 2008 on higher
volume ($6.0 billion), higher prices ($1.4 billion) and the effects of the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.5 billion). The increase in volume reflected increased
sales of thermal and wind equipment at Energy, and the effects of acquisitions
and increased sales of services at Oil & Gas. The increase in price was
primarily at Energy, while the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were primarily
at Energy and Oil & Gas.

Segment
profit rose 26% to $6.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.8 billion in 2007, as
higher prices ($1.4 billion), higher volume ($1.0 billion) and the effects of
the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) more than offset the effects of higher
material and other costs ($0.7 billion) and lower productivity ($0.5 billion).
Volume and material and other costs increased across all businesses of the
segment. The effects of productivity were primarily at Energy.

Energy
Infrastructure segment orders were $36.0 billion in 2009, down from $43.2
billion in 2008. The $28.5 billion total backlog at year-end 2009 comprised
unfilled product orders of $19.3 billion (of which 84% was scheduled for
delivery in 2010) and product services orders of $9.1 billion scheduled for 2010
delivery. Comparable December 31, 2008, total backlog was $32.5 billion, of
which $23.0 billion was for unfilled product orders and $9.5 billion, for
product services orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion
of items not allocated to this segment.

Technology
Infrastructure revenues decreased 8%, or $3.8 billion, in 2009 as lower volume
($4.1 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.4 billion) and an update at
Transportation of our estimate of product service costs in maintenance service
agreements ($0.3 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion)
and higher other income ($0.5 billion), primarily including gains on the
ATI-Singapore acquisition, dissolution of the joint venture with FANUC Ltd. and
the Times Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all
businesses in the segment. The effects of the stronger U.S. dollar were at
Healthcare, Enterprise Solutions and Aviation. Higher prices, primarily at
Aviation, were partially offset by lower prices at Healthcare.

Segment
profit decreased 8% to $7.5 billion in 2009, compared with $8.2 billion in 2008,
as the effects of lower volume ($1.0 billion) and lower productivity ($0.4
billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion) and higher other
income ($0.4 billion), primarily including gains on the ATI-Singapore
acquisition, dissolution of the joint venture with FANUC Ltd. and the Times
Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all businesses
in the segment. Lower productivity at Transportation and Enterprise Solutions
was partially offset by Aviation.

(36)

Technology
Infrastructure revenues rose 8%, or $3.5 billion, in 2008 on higher volume ($3.0
billion), the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and higher prices
($0.2 billion). The increase in volume reflected the effects of acquisitions and
increased sales of military and commercial engines and services at Aviation;
increased sales in the international diagnostic imaging, clinical systems and
life sciences businesses of Healthcare; increased equipment sales at
Transportation; and increases at Sensing and Inspection Technologies and Digital
Energy at Enterprise Solutions. The effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were
primarily at Healthcare and Enterprise Solutions. Higher prices were primarily
at Aviation and Transportation, partially offset by lower prices at
Healthcare.

Segment
profit rose 3% to $8.2 billion in 2008, compared with $7.9 billion in 2007, as
the effects of productivity ($0.5 billion), higher volume ($0.4 billion) and
higher prices ($0.2 billion) more than offset the effects of higher material and
other costs ($0.9 billion). The effects of productivity were primarily at
Healthcare and Aviation. Volume increases were primarily at Aviation and
Transportation. The increase in material costs was primarily at Aviation and
Transportation, partially offset by a decrease at Healthcare. Labor and other
costs increased across all businesses of the segment.

Technology
Infrastructure orders were $41.6 billion in 2009, down from $47.2 billion in
2008. The $38.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2009 comprised unfilled
product orders of $26.7 billion (of which 45% was scheduled for delivery in
2010) and product services orders of $11.9 billion scheduled for 2010 delivery.
Comparable December 31, 2008, total backlog was $37.6 billion, of which $28.4
billion was for unfilled product orders and $9.2 billion, for product services
orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment.

NBC Universal

revenues
decreased 9%, or $1.5 billion, in 2009 as lower revenues in our broadcast
television business ($1.1 billion), reflecting the lack of a current-year
counterpart to the 2008 Olympics broadcasts and the effects of lower advertising
revenues, lower revenues in film ($0.8 billion) and lower earnings and higher
impairments related to associated companies and investment securities ($0.4
billion) were partially offset by the gain relating to A&E Television
Network (AETN) ($0.6 billion) and higher revenues in cable ($0.3 billion).
Segment profit of $2.3 billion decreased 28%, or $0.9 billion, as lower earnings
in film ($0.6 billion), lower earnings and higher impairments related to
associated companies and investment securities ($0.4 billion), lack of
current-year counterpart to 2008 proceeds from insurance claims ($0.4 billion)
and lower earnings in our broadcast television business ($0.2 billion) were
partially offset by the gain related to AETN ($0.6 billion) and higher earnings
in cable ($0.2 billion).

NBC
Universal revenues increased $1.6 billion, or 10%, to $17.0 billion in 2008, as
revenues from the Olympics broadcasts ($1.0 billion) and higher revenues in
cable ($0.6 billion) and film ($0.4 billion) were partially offset by lower
earnings and higher impairments related to associated companies and investment
securities ($0.3 billion) and lower revenues from our television business ($0.1
billion). Segment profit of $3.1 billion in 2008 was flat compared with 2007, as
higher earnings from cable ($0.3 billion) and proceeds from insurance claims
($0.4 billion) were offset by lower earnings and impairments related to
associated companies and investment securities ($0.3 billion), losses from the
Olympics broadcasts ($0.2 billion), and lower earnings from our television
business ($0.1 billion) and film ($0.1 billion). See Corporate Items and
Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this
segment.

As of
December 31, 2009, our NBC Universal business has been classified as held for
sale. For additional information, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

(37)

December
      31 (In millions)



Total
      assets

$

537,060

$

572,903

(a)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Banque Artesia Nederland N.V.
      (Artesia) from CLL to Consumer. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to
      conform to the current period's
presentation.

Capital
Finance revenues decreased 24% and net earnings decreased 73% compared with
2008. Revenues in 2009 and 2008 included $3.0 billion and $0.4 billion of
revenue from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2009 were reduced by $4.8
billion as a result of dispositions, including the effect of the deconsolidation
of Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL). Revenues in 2009 also decreased $14.1
billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines, primarily
driven by a lower asset base and a lower interest rate environment, and the
stronger U.S. dollar. Net earnings decreased by $6.3 billion in 2009 compared
with 2008, primarily due to higher provisions for losses on financing
receivables associated with the challenging economic environment, partially
offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs and the decision to
indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S.

During
2009, GE Capital provided $72 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various
companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended
$74 billion of credit to approximately 54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital
provided credit to approximately 14,200 new commercial customers and 40,000 new
small businesses during 2009 in the U.S. and ended the period with outstanding
credit to more than 346,000 commercial customers and 174,000 small businesses
through retail programs in the U.S.

(38)

Capital
Finance 2008 revenues increased by 1%, and net earnings decreased 29%, compared
with 2007. Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $4.4 billion and $0.5 billion from
acquisitions, respectively, and in 2008 were benefited by $0.1 billion as a
result of dispositions. Revenues in 2008 also decreased $3.3 billion as a result
of organic revenue declines ($4.5 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S.
dollar ($1.2 billion). Net earnings decreased by $3.6 billion in 2008, resulting
from core declines ($3.5 billion), including an increase of $1.9 billion in the
provision for losses on financing receivables, lower investment income ($0.6
billion) and lower securitization income ($0.4 billion), offset by acquisitions
($0.5 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and dispositions ($0.1
billion). Net earnings included mark-to-market losses and impairments ($1.4
billion), partially offset by increased tax benefits from lower-taxed earnings
from global operations ($0.7 billion) and Genpact mark-to-market gains ($0.2
billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment.

Additional
information about certain Capital Finance businesses follows.

CLL 2009
revenues decreased 22% and net earnings decreased 45% compared with 2008.
Revenues in 2009 and 2008 included $1.9 billion and $0.3 billion from
acquisitions, respectively, and were reduced by $3.2 billion from dispositions,
primarily related to the deconsolidation of PTL. Revenues in 2009 also included
$0.3 billion related to a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited
partnership in PTL and remeasurement of our retained investment. Revenues in
2009 decreased $4.6 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue
declines ($3.9 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). Net
earnings decreased by $0.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher provisions for
losses on financing receivables ($0.5 billion), lower gains ($0.5 billion) and
declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.4 billion),
partially offset by acquisitions ($0.4 billion) and higher investment income
($0.3 billion). Net earnings also included the gain on PTL sale and
remeasurement ($0.3 billion) and higher Genpact gains ($0.1 billion), partially
offset by mark-to-market losses and other-than-temporary impairments ($0.1
billion).

CLL 2008
revenues decreased 2% and net earnings decreased 53% compared with 2007.
Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $1.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively,
from acquisitions, and in 2008 were reduced by $0.3 billion as a result of
dispositions. Revenues in 2008 decreased $1.9 billion compared with 2007 as a
result of organic revenue declines ($2.3 billion), partially offset by the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.4 billion). Net earnings decreased by $2.0 billion in
2008, resulting from core declines ($2.2 billion), including an increase of $0.5
billion in the provision for losses on financing receivables and lower
investment income ($0.3 billion), partially offset by acquisitions ($0.4
billion) and the effect of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Net earnings
included mark-to-market losses and impairments ($0.8 billion), the absence of
the effects of the 2007 tax benefit on the disposition of our investment in SES
($0.5 billion) and SES gains ($0.1 billion), partially offset by Genpact
mark-to-market gains ($0.2 billion).

Consumer
2009 revenues decreased 24% and net earnings decreased 55% compared with 2008.
Revenues in 2009 included $1.0 billion from acquisitions (including a gain of
$0.3 billion on the remeasurement of our previously held equity investment in
BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) related to the acquisition of a controlling
interest (BAC acquisition gain)) and were reduced by $1.7 billion as a result of
dispositions, and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on
sale of our Corporate Payment Services (CPS) business ($0.4 billion). Revenues
in 2009 decreased $5.0 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue
declines ($3.4 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($1.6 billion). The
decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines ($2.4 billion)
and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on sale of our CPS
business ($0.2 billion). These decreases were partially offset by higher
securitization income ($0.3 billion), the BAC acquisition gain ($0.2 billion)
and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Core declines primarily resulted
from lower results in the U.S., U.K., and our banks in Eastern Europe,
reflecting higher provisions for losses on financing receivables ($1.3 billion)
and declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.7 billion). The
benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global operations included $0.5 billion
from the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the
U.S.

(39)

Consumer
2008 revenues increased 1% and net earnings decreased 14% compared with 2007.
Revenues for 2008 included $0.7 billion from acquisitions and $0.4 billion from
the gain on sale of our CPS business and were reduced by $0.2 billion from
dispositions. Revenues in 2008 also decreased $0.6 billion compared with 2007 as
a result of organic revenue declines ($1.2 billion), partially offset by the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.6 billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted
primarily from core declines ($0.5 billion) and lower securitization income
($0.5 billion). The decreases were partially offset by the gain on the sale of
our CPS business ($0.2 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) and
acquisitions ($0.1 billion). Core declines primarily resulted from lower results
in the U.S., reflecting the effects of higher delinquencies ($1.2 billion),
partially offset by growth in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($1.0
billion), including the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings
outside the U.S.

Real
Estate 2009 revenues decreased 40% and net earnings decreased $2.7 billion
compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 decreased $2.6 billion compared with 2008
as a result of organic revenue declines ($2.4 billion), primarily as a result of
a decrease in sales of properties, and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion).
Real Estate net earnings decreased $2.7 billion compared with 2008, primarily
from an increase in provisions for losses on financing receivables and
impairments ($1.2 billion) and a decrease in gains on sales of properties as
compared to the prior period ($1.1 billion). Depreciation expense on real estate
equity investments totaled $1.2 billion in both 2009 and 2008. In the normal
course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity
investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so.

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2009, decreased $3.8 billion, or 4%, from December
31, 2008, including $2.7 billion, or 6%, attributable to a decline in real
estate lending reflecting lower originations, principal repayments, and
increased loan reserves, and $0.7 billion, or 2%, attributable to a decline in
real estate investments principally due to depreciation expense and impairments,
partially offset by foreclosures. During 2009, we sold real estate equity
investment assets with a book value totaling $1.5 billion, which resulted in net
earnings of $0.1 billion that were more than offset by losses, impairments and
depreciation.

Real
Estate 2008 revenues decreased 5% and net earnings decreased 50% compared with
2007. Revenues for 2008 included $0.3 billion from acquisitions. Revenues in
2008 also decreased $0.7 billion compared with 2007 as a result of organic
revenue declines ($0.8 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar
($0.2 billion). Real Estate net earnings decreased $1.1 billion compared with
2007, primarily from a decline in net earnings from real estate equity
investments ($1.2 billion), partially offset by an increase in net earnings from
real estate lending. Net earnings from the sale of real estate equity
investments in 2008 were lower as a result of increasingly difficult market
conditions.

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2008, increased $6.0 billion, or 8%, from December
31, 2007, including $12.1 billion, or 34%, attributable to an increase in real
estate lending, partially offset by a $6.4 billion, or 16%, decline in real
estate equity investments. During 2008, we sold real estate equity investment
assets with a book value totaling $5.8 billion, which resulted in net earnings
of $1.3 billion that were partially offset by losses, impairments and
depreciation.

Energy
Financial Services 2009 revenues decreased 43% and net earnings decreased 74%
compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 included $0.1 billion of gains from
dispositions. Revenues in 2009 also decreased $1.7 billion compared with 2008 as
a result of organic declines ($1.7 billion), primarily as a result of the
effects of lower energy commodity prices and a decrease in gains on sales of
assets. The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines,
including a decrease in gains on sales of assets as compared to the prior period
and the effects of lower energy commodity prices.

Energy
Financial Services 2008 revenues and net earnings increased 54% and 22%,
respectively, compared with 2007. Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $1.6
billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, from acquisitions. The increase in net
earnings resulted primarily from core growth ($0.2 billion), partially offset by
lower investment income ($0.1 billion).

GECAS
2009 revenues decreased 4% and net earnings decreased 14% compared with 2008.
The decrease in revenues resulted primarily from lower asset sales ($0.2
billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from lower asset sales
($0.2 billion) and core declines reflecting higher credit losses and
impairments.

(40)

GECAS
2008 revenues increased 1% and net earnings decreased 1% compared with 2007. The
increase in revenues is primarily a result of organic revenue growth ($0.1
billion), partially offset by lower investment income. The decrease in net
earnings resulted primarily from lower investment income, partially offset by
core growth.

Consumer & Industrial

revenues of $9.7 billion decreased 17%, or $2.0 billion, in 2009 compared with
2008, as lower volume ($2.2 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion)
were partially offset by higher prices ($0.2 billion). The decrease in volume
primarily reflected tightened consumer spending in the European and U.S.
markets. Segment profit increased 10% in 2009 as higher prices ($0.2 billion)
and lower material and other costs ($0.2 billion) were partially offset by lower
productivity ($0.3 billion) and lower other income ($0.1 billion).

Consumer
& Industrial revenues decreased 7%, or $0.9 billion, to $11.7 billion in
2008 compared with 2007 as lower volume ($1.2 billion) was partially offset by
higher prices ($0.2 billion) and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1
billion). The decrease in volume reflected tightened spending in the U.S.
market. Segment profit decreased 65%, or $0.7 billion, to $0.4 billion as higher
material and other costs ($0.4 billion), lower volume ($0.2 billion), lower
productivity ($0.1 billion) and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar on
manufacturing costs ($0.1 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.2
billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment.

Corporate
Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between
operating segments; results of our insurance activities remaining in continuing
operations; certain items in our treasury operations; cost of, and cost
reductions from, our principal pension plans; underabsorbed corporate overhead;
certain non-allocated amounts described below; and a variety of sundry items.
Corporate Items and Eliminations is not an operating segment. Rather, it is
added to operating segment totals to reconcile to consolidated totals on the
financial statements.

Certain
amounts included in Corporate Items and Eliminations cost are not allocated to
GE operating segments because they are excluded from the measurement of their
operating performance for internal purposes. In 2009, these included $0.4
billion at each of Capital Finance and Technology Infrastructure, $0.2 billion
at Energy Infrastructure and $0.1 billion at Consumer & Industrial,
primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges and $0.3 billion
at NBC Universal, primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges
and technology and product development costs. In 2008, amounts primarily related
to restructuring, rationalization and other charges were $0.5 billion at each of
Capital Finance and NBC Universal, $0.4 billion at Technology Infrastructure and
$0.3 billion at each of Energy Infrastructure and Consumer & Industrial.
Included in these amounts in 2008 were technology and product development costs
of $0.2 billion at NBC Universal and $0.1 billion at Technology Infrastructure
and net losses on business exits of $0.2 billion at Capital Finance. GECS
amounts are on an after-tax basis.

(41)

Corporate
Items and Eliminations include the elimination of transactions between our
segments. In 2007, revenues, eliminations and other included a $0.9 billion gain
on sale of a business interest to Hitachi by the Energy business and a $0.6
billion gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock.

In 2009,
other operating profit (cost) increased $1.0 billion, primarily due to a $1.1
billion increase in restructuring and other charges, which included a $0.6
billion increase in costs related to environmental remediation
matters.

In 2007,
other operating profit (cost) reflected a $0.9 billion gain on sale of a
business interest to Hitachi by the Energy business and a $0.3 billion
(after-tax basis) gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock.

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics. Results of
these businesses are reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.

During
the third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Lake business and
recorded an after-tax loss of $0.9 billion, which represents the difference
between the net book value of our Lake business and the projected sale price.
During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along
with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership
interest in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In connection with this sale, and
primarily related to our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, we recorded an
incremental $0.4 billion loss in 2008.

In
December 2007, we completed the sale of our WMC business for $0.1 billion in
cash, recognizing an after-tax loss of $0.1 billion. In connection with the
transaction, certain contractual obligations and potential liabilities related
to previously sold loans were retained.

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business to Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation for $11.6 billion in cash. As a result, we recognized an
after-tax gain of $1.6 billion.

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2009, primarily reflected the
incremental loss on disposal of GE Money Japan ($0.1 billion).

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2008 was $0.7 billion, primarily
reflecting a loss from operations ($0.3 billion), and the estimated incremental
loss on disposal of GE Money Japan ($0.4 billion).

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2007 was $0.2 billion, reflecting
a loss from operations at WMC ($0.9 billion), an estimated after-tax loss on the
planned sale of Lake ($0.9 billion), a loss from operations at GE Money Japan
($0.3 billion), and an after-tax loss on the sale of our WMC business ($0.1
billion), partially offset by a tax adjustment related to the 2004 initial
public offering of Genworth ($0.1 billion). This was partially offset by an
after-tax gain on sale of our Plastics business ($1.6 billion) and earnings from
Plastics operations ($0.3 billion).

For
additional information related to discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

(42)

Geographic
Operations

Our
global activities span all geographic regions and primarily encompass
manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced
in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our plants domiciled in
other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional
economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic
stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also often have
new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things,
higher receivable delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellations of sales
and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local
currency financing costs and slowdown in established financial services
activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more
opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial
services activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices
and lower U.S. debt financing costs.

Revenues
are classified according to the region to which products and services are sold.
For purposes of this analysis, U.S. is presented separately from the remainder
of the Americas. We classify certain operations that cannot meaningfully be
associated with specific geographic areas as “Other Global” for this
purpose.

Global
revenues decreased 13% to $84.3 billion in 2009, compared with $97.2 billion and
$86.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Global revenues to external
customers as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 54% in 2009, compared
with 53% and 50% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effects of currency
fluctuations on reported results were to decrease revenues by $3.9 billion in
2009 and increase revenues by $2.0 billion and $4.0 billion in 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

GE
global revenues in 2009 were $56.4 billion, down 5% over 2008. Increases in
emerging markets of 25% in Eastern Europe, 16% in China and 3% in Africa were
more than offset by decreases of 17% in the Americas and 7% in Western Europe.
GE global revenues as a percentage of total GE revenues were 55% in 2009,
compared with 53% and 50% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. GE global revenues
were $59.4 billion in 2008, up 19% over 2007, with broad-based global
growth.

GECS
global revenues decreased 26% to $27.9 billion in 2009, compared with $37.8
billion and $36.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily as a result
of dispositions in Europe and the Pacific Basin. GECS global revenues as a
percentage of total GECS revenues were 52% in 2009, compared with 53% and 51% in
2008 and 2007, respectively. The effects of currency fluctuations on reported
results were to decrease revenues by $2.5 billion in 2009 and increase revenues
by $1.2 billion and $2.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

(43)

Total
assets of global operations on a continuing basis were $391.1 billion in 2009, a
decrease of $9.3 billion, or 2%, from 2008. GECS global assets on a continuing
basis of $319.1 billion at the end of 2009 were 3% lower than at the end of
2008, reflecting core declines in the Pacific Basin and Europe, partially offset
by acquisitions, and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar, primarily at
Consumer and CLL.

Financial
results of our global activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by
currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of
currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and
selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal
currencies are the pound sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian
dollar.

Environmental
Matters

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of
remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a
disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to
approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such
remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion over the next two years.

In
November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent
decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for
implementation of EPA's 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB)-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent
degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed
in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel
will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to
Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase
I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is
expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer
review panel's recommendations, GE's proposed changes, and its own analysis,
will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or
performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPA's decision, GE has 90 days to
either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE
may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of
December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of
the project under the consent decree.

Financial
Resources and Liquidity

This
discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of
Financial Position, Liquidity and Borrowings, Debt Instruments, Guarantees and
Covenants, the Statement of Changes in Shareowners’ Equity, the Statement of
Cash Flows, Contractual Obligations, and Variable Interest Entities and
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.

Overview
of Financial Position

Major
changes to our shareowners’ equity are discussed in the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Shareowners’ Equity section. In addition, other significant
changes to balances in our Statement of Financial Position follow.

(44)

Statement
of Financial Position

Because
GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of Financial
Position – property, plant and equipment and borrowings, for example – the
following discussion addresses significant captions in the “consolidated”
statement. Within the following discussions, however, we distinguish between GE
and GECS activities in order to permit meaningful analysis of each individual
consolidating statement.

Investment securities

comprise
mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting obligations to annuitants and
policyholders in our run-off insurance operations and holders of guaranteed
investment contracts (GICs), and retained interests in securitization entities.
The fair value of investment securities increased to $51.9 billion at December
31, 2009, from $41.4 billion at December 31, 2008, primarily driven by decreases
in unrealized losses due to market improvements, investment of cash into
short-term investments such as money market funds and certificates of deposits,
and an increase in our retained interests in securitization entities. Of the
amount at December 31, 2009, we held debt securities with an estimated fair
value of $41.7 billion, which included corporate debt securities, residential
mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage-backed securities
(CMBS) with estimated fair values of $25.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.7
billion, respectively. Unrealized losses on debt securities were $2.6 billion
and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This amount
included unrealized losses on corporate debt securities, RMBS and CMBS of $0.8
billion, $0.8 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009, as
compared with $2.6 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2008.

Of the
$3.3 billion of RMBS, our exposure to subprime credit was approximately $0.9
billion. These securities are primarily held to support obligations to holders
of GICs. We purchased no such securities in 2009 and 2008. These investment
securities are collateralized primarily by pools of individual direct mortgage
loans, and do not include structured products such as collateralized debt
obligations. Additionally, a majority of exposure to residential subprime credit
related to investment securities backed by mortgage loans originated in 2006 and
2005.

The vast
majority of our CMBS have investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating
agencies and are in a senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Our
CMBS investments are collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that
were originated for securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans
backed by high quality properties (large loan CMBS), a majority of which were
originated in 2006 and 2007.

We
regularly review investment securities for impairment. Our review uses both
qualitative and quantitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended
ASC 320,

Investments – Debt
and Equity Securities

, and modified the requirements for recognizing and
measuring other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities. This did not have
a material impact on our results of operations. We presently do not intend to
sell our debt securities and believe that it is not more likely than not that we
will be required to sell these securities that are in an unrealized loss
position before recovery of our amortized cost. If we do not intend to sell the
security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the
security before recovery of our amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative
criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists, such as the financial health
of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in
compliance with the terms and covenants of the security. Quantitative criteria
include determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future
cash flows. With respect to corporate bonds, we placed greater emphasis on the
credit quality of the issuer. With respect to RMBS and CMBS, we placed greater
emphasis on our expectations with respect to cash flows from the underlying
collateral and with respect to RMBS, we considered other features of the
security, principally monoline insurance. For equity securities, our criteria
include the length of time and magnitude of the amount that each security is in
an unrealized loss position. Our other-than-temporary impairment reviews involve
our finance, risk and asset management functions as well as the portfolio
management and research capabilities of our internal and third-party asset
managers.

(45)

Monoline
insurers (Monolines) provide credit enhancement for certain of our investment
securities. The credit enhancement is a feature of each specific security that
guarantees the payment of all contractual cash flows, and is not purchased
separately by GE. At December 31, 2009, our investment securities insured by
Monolines totaled $2.7 billion, including $0.8 billion of our $0.9 billion
investment in subprime RMBS. The Monoline industry continues to experience
financial stress from increasing delinquencies and defaults on the individual
loans underlying insured securities. In evaluating whether a security with
Monoline credit enhancement is other-than-temporarily impaired, we first
evaluate whether there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows. If
there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows, we then evaluate the
overall credit worthiness of the Monoline using an analysis that is similar to
the approach we use for corporate bonds. This includes an evaluation of the
following factors: sufficiency of the Monoline’s cash reserves and capital,
ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears
imminent, and the potential for intervention by an insurance or other regulator.
At December 31, 2009, the unrealized loss associated with securities subject to
Monoline credit enhancement for which there is an expected loss was $0.3
billion, of which $0.2 billion relates to expected credit losses and the
remaining $0.1 billion relates to other market factors.

Total
pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment losses during the period April 1, 2009,
through December 31, 2009, were $0.8 billion, of which $0.5 billion was
recognized in earnings and primarily relates to credit losses on corporate debt
securities, RMBS and retained interests in our securitization arrangements, and
$0.3 billion primarily relates to non-credit related losses on RMBS and is
included within accumulated other comprehensive income.

Our
qualitative review attempts to identify issuers’ securities that are “at-risk”
of other-than-temporary impairment, that is, for securities that we do not
intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to
sell before recovery of our amortized cost, whether there is a possibility of
credit loss that would result in an other-than-temporary impairment recognition
in the following 12 months. Securities we have identified as “at-risk” primarily
relate to investments in RMBS securities and corporate debt securities across a
broad range of industries. The amount of associated unrealized loss on these
securities at December 31, 2009, is $0.6 billion. Credit losses that would be
recognized in earnings are calculated when we determine the security to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. Continued uncertainty in the capital markets
may cause increased levels of other-than-temporary impairments.

At
December 31, 2009, unrealized losses on investment securities totaled $2.6
billion, including $2.4 billion aged 12 months or longer, compared with
unrealized losses of $5.7 billion, including $3.5 billion aged 12 months or
longer, at December 31, 2008. Of the amount aged 12 months or longer at December
31, 2009, more than 70% of our debt securities were considered to be investment
grade by the major rating agencies. In addition, of the amount aged 12 months or
longer, $1.5 billion and $0.7 billion related to structured securities
(mortgage-backed, asset-backed and securitization retained interests) and
corporate debt securities, respectively. With respect to our investment
securities that are in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009, the
vast majority relate to debt securities held to support obligations to holders
of GICs and annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations. We
presently do not intend to sell our debt securities and believe that it is not
more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities that are
in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our amortized cost. The fair
values used to determine these unrealized gains and losses are those defined by
relevant accounting standards and are not a forecast of future gains or losses.
For additional information, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form
10-K Report.

Fair Value Measurements

. We
adopted ASC 820,

Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures

, in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we
adopted it for all financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted
for at fair value on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Adoption of this did not have a material effect on our financial position or
results of operations. Additional information about our application of this
guidance is provided in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(46)

Investments

measured at fair value
in earnings include retained interests in securitizations accounted for at fair
value and equity investments of $3.1 billion at year-end 2009. The earnings
effects of changes in fair value on these assets, favorable and unfavorable,
will be reflected in the period in which those changes occur. As discussed in
Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report, we also have assets
that are classified as held for sale in the ordinary course of business,
primarily credit card receivables, loans and real estate properties, carried at
$3.7 billion at year-end 2009, which represents the lower of carrying amount or
estimated fair value less costs to sell. To the extent that the estimated fair
value less costs to sell is lower than carrying value, any favorable or
unfavorable changes in fair value will be reflected in earnings in the period in
which such changes occur.

Working capital

, representing
GE current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress
collections, was $(1.6) billion at December 31, 2009, down $5.5 billion from
December 31, 2008, primarily reflecting the effects of operating initiatives and
the classification of NBCU and our Security business as held for sale. As Energy
delivers units out of its backlog over the next few years, progress collections
of $13.0 billion at December 31, 2009, will be earned, which, along with
progress collections on new orders, will impact working capital. Throughout the
last three years, we have executed a significant number of initiatives through
our Operating Council, such as lean cycle time projects, which have resulted in
working capital decreases. We expect to continue these initiatives in 2010,
which should have the effect of significantly offsetting the effects of
decreases in progress collections.

We
discuss current receivables and inventories, two important elements of working
capital, in the following paragraphs.

Current receivables

for GE
totaled to $9.8 billion at the end of 2009 and $15.1 billion at the end of 2008,
and included $7.5 billion due from customers at the end of 2009 compared with
$11.3 billion at the end of 2008. GE current receivables turnover, including
NBCU, was 8.0 in 2009, compared with 7.5 in 2008. The overall reduction in
current receivables was due to the Operating Council initiatives and lower
volume across our industrial businesses and the classification of NBCU and our
Security business as held for sale. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

Inventories

for GE totaled to
$11.9 billion at December 31, 2009, down $1.7 billion from the end of 2008. This
decrease reflected lower inventories at Technology Infrastructure and the
classification of our Security business and NBCU as held for sale, partially
offset by higher inventories at Energy Infrastructure supporting the significant
backlog. GE inventory turnover, including NBCU, was 7.9 and 8.0 in 2009 and
2008, respectively. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Financing receivables

is our
largest category of assets and represents one of our primary sources of
revenues. A discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing
receivables portfolio follows.

Our
portfolio of financing receivables is diverse and not directly comparable to
major U.S. banks. Historically, we have had less consumer exposure, which over
time has had higher loss rates than commercial exposure.

Our
consumer portfolio is largely non-U.S. and primarily comprises mortgage, sales
finance, auto and personal loans in various European and Asian countries. Our
U.S. consumer financing receivables comprise 7% of our total portfolio. Of
those, approximately 36% relate primarily to credit cards, which are often
subject to profit and loss sharing arrangements with the retailer (the results
of which are reflected in GECS revenues), and have a smaller average balance and
lower loss severity as compared to bank cards. The remaining 64% are sales
finance receivables, which provide electronics, recreation, medical and home
improvement financing to customers. In 2007, we exited the U.S. mortgage
business and we have no U.S. auto or student loans.

(47)

Our
commercial portfolio primarily comprises senior, secured positions with
comparatively low loss history. The secured receivables in this portfolio are
collateralized by a variety of asset classes, including industrial-related
facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles,
aircraft, and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications and healthcare industries. We
are in a secured position for substantially all of this portfolio.

Overall,
we believe that the global economic markets are beginning to stabilize and we
expect that our financing receivables portfolio will begin to reflect this over
the course of 2010. We believe that the commercial financing markets in which we
operate (excluding commercial real estate, discussed below) are likewise
becoming more stable, and loss severity remains within an expected
range.  Delinquency and non-earnings rates in these businesses are
beginning to show signs of improvement and originations, while down, are at
generally higher margins. In our Consumer businesses, we continued throughout
2009 to raise underwriting standards, reduce open credit commitments and
maintain discipline in collections. The performance of this business has
historically been linked to the global economy and unemployment levels and we
expect 2010 losses to be about the same as our experience in 2009. Real Estate
continues to be under pressure, with limited market liquidity and challenging
economic conditions. We have and continue to maintain an intense focus on
operations and risk management; however, we expect current economic conditions
to persist in 2010, which will likely result in higher losses for Real Estate
compared with 2009.

Losses
on financing receivables are recognized when they are incurred, which requires
us to make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Such
estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for
current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant
observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency
rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral
values (including housing price indices as applicable), and the present and
expected future levels of interest rates. Our risk management process includes
standards and policies for reviewing major risk exposures and concentrations,
and evaluates relevant data either for individual loans or financing leases, or
on a portfolio basis, as appropriate. Effective January 1, 2009, loans acquired
in a business acquisition are recorded at fair value, which incorporates our
estimate at the acquisition date of the credit losses over the remaining life of
the portfolio. As a result, the allowance for loan losses is not carried over at
acquisition. This may result in lower reserve coverage ratios
prospectively.

For
purposes of the discussion that follows, “delinquent” receivables are those that
are 30 days or more past due based on their contractual terms; and “nonearning”
receivables are those that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection
has otherwise become doubtful). Nonearning receivables exclude loans purchased
at a discount (unless they have deteriorated post acquisition). Under ASC 310,

Receivables,

these
loans are initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the
estimated life of the loan based on reasonably estimable cash flows even if the
underlying loans are contractually delinquent at acquisition. In addition,
nonearning receivables exclude loans that are paying currently under a cash
accounting basis, but classified as impaired.  Recently restructured
financing receivables are not considered delinquent when payments are brought
current according to the restructured terms, but may remain classified as
nonearning until there has been a period of satisfactory payment performance by
the borrower and future payments are reasonably assured of
collection.

(48)

(a)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period’s
      presentation.

(b)

At
      December 31, 2009, net of credit insurance, approximately 24% of this
      portfolio comprised loans with introductory, below-market rates that are
      scheduled to adjust at future dates; with high loan-to-value ratios at
      inception; whose terms permitted interest-only payments; or whose terms
      resulted in negative amortization. At origination, we underwrite loans
      with an adjustable rate to the reset value. 82% of these loans are in our
      U.K. and France portfolios, which comprise mainly loans with interest-only
      payments and introductory below-market rates, have a delinquency rate of
      18.3% and have loan-to-value ratio at origination of 74%. At December 31,
      2009, 1% (based on dollar values) of these loans in our U.K. and France
      portfolios have been restructured.

(c)

Financing
      receivables included $317 million and $731 million of construction loans
      at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

(d)

Consisted
      of loans and financing leases related to certain consolidated, liquidating
      securitization entities.

(49)

(a)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period’s
      presentation.

Further
information on the determination of the allowance for losses on financing
receivables is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this
item and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

The
portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance for losses, was $345.0
billion at December 31, 2009, and $377.8 billion at December 31, 2008. Financing
receivables, before allowance for losses, decreased $32.8 billion from December
31, 2008, primarily as a result of core declines of $52.1 billion mainly from
collections exceeding originations ($44.0 billion) (which includes
securitization and sales), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($17.8
billion) and acquisitions ($11.9 billion).

Related
nonearning receivables totaled $13.3 billion (3.8% of outstanding receivables)
at December 31, 2009, compared with $8.0 billion (2.1% of outstanding
receivables) at December 31, 2008. Nonearning receivables increased from
December 31, 2008, primarily in connection with the challenging global economic
environment, increased deterioration in the real estate markets and rising
unemployment.

The
allowance for losses at December 31, 2009, totaled $8.1 billion compared with
$5.3 billion at December 31, 2008, representing our best estimate of probable
losses inherent in the portfolio and reflecting the then-current credit and
economic environment. Allowance for losses increased $2.8 billion from December
31, 2008, primarily due to increasing delinquencies and nonearning receivables,
reflecting the continued weakened economic and credit environment.

(50)

“Impaired”
loans in the table below are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for
which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement.  The
vast majority of our consumer and a portion of our CLL nonearning receivables
are excluded from this definition, as they represent smaller balance homogenous
loans that we evaluate collectively by portfolio for impairment.

Impaired
loans include nonearning receivables on larger balance or restructured loans,
loans which are currently paying interest under the cash basis (but are excluded
from the nonearning category), and loans paying currently but which have been
previously restructured.

Specific
reserves are recorded for individually impaired loans to the extent we judge
principal to be uncollectible. Certain loans classified as impaired may not
require a reserve. In these circumstances, we believe that we will ultimately
collect the unpaid balance (through collection or collateral
repossession).

Further
information pertaining to loans classified as impaired and specific reserves is
included in the table below.

(a)

Recognized
      principally on cash basis.

Impaired
loans increased by $9.3 billion from December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2009,
primarily relating to increases at Real Estate ($5.7 billion) and CLL ($2.7
billion). We regularly review our Real Estate loans for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative factors, such as debt service coverage and
loan-to-value ratios. We classify Real Estate loans as impaired when the most
recent valuation reflects a projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity in excess
of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance with contractual
terms. The increase in impaired loans and related specific reserves at Real
Estate reflects our current estimate of collateral values of the underlying
properties, and our estimate of loans which are not past due, but for which it
is probable that we will be unable to collect the full principal balance at
maturity due to a decline in the underlying value of the collateral. Of our $6.5
billion impaired loans at Real Estate at December 31, 2009, approximately $4.4
billion are currently paying in accordance with the contractual terms of the
loan. Impaired loans at CLL primarily represent senior secured lending
positions.

Our loss
mitigation strategy intends to minimize economic loss and, at times, can result
in rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance or other actions, which
may cause the related loan to be classified as a troubled debt restructuring
(TDR). As required by GAAP, TDRs are included in impaired loans. As of December
31, 2009, TDRs included in impaired loans were $3.0 billion, primarily relating
to Real Estate ($1.1 billion), CLL ($1.0 billion) and Consumer ($0.9
billion).

(51)

CLL − Americas

. Nonearning
receivables of $3.2 billion represented 23.8% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 42.7% at December 31, 2008, to 37.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily from an increase in secured exposures requiring relatively lower
specific reserve levels, based upon the strength of the underlying collateral
values. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing
receivables increased from 1.9% at December 31, 2008, to 3.6% at December 31,
2009, primarily from an increase in nonearning receivables in our senior secured
lending portfolio concentrated in the following industries: media,
communications, corporate aircraft, auto, transportation, retail/publishing,
inventory finance, and franchise finance.

CLL – Europe.

Nonearning
receivables of $1.4 billion represented 10.4% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 83.5% at December 31, 2008, to 39.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily from the increase in nonearning receivables related to the
acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a
percent of financing receivables increased from 0.9% at December 31, 2008, to
3.5% at December 31, 2009, primarily from the increase in nonearning receivables
related to the acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A. and an increase in nonearning
receivables in secured lending in the automotive industry.

CLL – Asia

. Nonearning
receivables of $0.6 billion represented 4.3% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 53.3% at December 31, 2008, to 42.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily due to an increase in nonearning receivables in secured
exposures, which did not require significant specific reserves based upon the
strength of the underlying collateral values. The ratio of nonearning
receivables as a percent of financing receivables increased from 1.8% at
December 31, 2008, to 4.4% at December 31, 2009, primarily from an increase in
nonearning receivables at our corporate asset-based, distribution finance
and corporate air secured financing businesses in Japan, Australia, New Zealand
and India and a lower financing receivables balance.

Consumer − Non-U.S. residential
mortgages

. Nonearning receivables of $4.6 billion represented 34.3% of
total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 11.5% at December
31, 2008, to 20.9% at December 31, 2009. In 2009, our nonearning receivables
increased primarily as a result of the continued decline in the U.K. housing
market, partially offset by increased foreclosures. Our non-U.S. mortgage
portfolio has a loan-to-value ratio of approximately 75% at origination and the
vast majority are first lien positions. Our U.K. and France portfolios, which
comprise a majority of our total mortgage portfolio, have reindexed
loan-to-value ratios of 82% and 68%, respectively. Less than 4% of these loans
are without mortgage insurance and have a reindexed loan-to-value ratio equal to
or greater than 100%. Loan-to-value information is updated on a quarterly basis
for a majority of our loans and considers economic factors such as the housing
price index. At December 31, 2009, we had in repossession stock approximately
1,200 houses in the U.K., which had a value of approximately $0.2
billion.

Consumer − Non-U.S. installment and
revolving credit.

Nonearning receivables of $0.5 billion represented 3.4%
of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 254.5% at December
31, 2008, to 261.5% at December 31, 2009, reflecting increases in allowance for
loan losses, partially offset by the effects of loan repayments and reduced
originations. Allowance for losses as a percent of financing receivables
increased from 4.3% at December 31, 2008, to 4.7% at December 31, 2009, as
increases in allowance for loan losses were driven by the effects of increased
delinquencies in Europe and Australia, partially offset by the effects of
business dispositions.

Consumer − U.S. installment and
revolving credit

. Nonearning receivables of $0.8 billion represented 6.3%
of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables declined from 224.3% at December
31, 2008, to 201.9% at December 31, 2009, as a result of the effects of loan
repayments and better entry rates, partially offset by increases in the
allowance for loan losses due to the effects of the continued deterioration in
our U.S. portfolio in connection with rising unemployment.

(52)

Real Estate.

Nonearning
receivables of $1.3 billion represented 9.4% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The $1.1 billion increase in nonearning receivables from
December 31, 2008, was driven primarily by increased delinquencies in the U.S.
apartment and office loan portfolios, which have been adversely affected by rent
and occupancy declines. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of total
financing receivables increased from 0.6% at December 31, 2008, to 3.3% at
December 31, 2009, driven primarily by continued economic deterioration in the
U.S. and the U.K. markets, which resulted in an increase in both specific and
general credit loss provisions. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent
of nonearning receivables declined from 155.2% at December 31, 2008, to 119.3%
at December 31, 2009, reflecting a higher proportion of the allowance being
attributable to specific reserves and our estimate of underlying collateral
values. The allowance for losses on our real estate receivables may continue to
be adversely affected as the overall challenging economic environment continues
to pressure underlying property values. At December 31, 2009, real estate held
for investment included $0.8 billion representing 82 foreclosed commercial real
estate properties.

(53)

Delinquency
Rates

Delinquency
rates on managed equipment financing loans and leases and managed consumer
financing receivables follow.

Delinquency
rates on equipment financing loans and leases increased from December 31, 2008
and 2007, to December 31, 2009, as a result of the continuing weakness in the
global economic and credit environment. In addition, delinquency rates on
equipment financing loans and leases increased nine basis points from December
31, 2008, to December 31, 2009, as a result of the inclusion of the CitiCapital
acquisition. The challenging credit environment may continue to lead to a higher
level of commercial delinquencies and provisions for financing receivables and
could adversely affect results of operations at CLL.

Delinquency
rates on consumer financing receivables increased from December 31, 2008 and
2007, to December 31, 2009, primarily because of rising unemployment, a
challenging economic environment and lower volume. In response, we continued to
tighten underwriting standards globally, increased focus on collection
effectiveness and will continue the process of regularly reviewing and adjusting
reserve levels. We expect the global environment, along with U.S. unemployment
levels, to further show signs of stabilization in 2010; however, a continued
challenging economic environment may continue to result in higher provisions for
loan losses and could adversely affect results of operations at Consumer. At
December 31, 2009, roughly 39% of our U.S. managed portfolio (excluding
delinquent or impaired), which consisted of credit cards, installment and
revolving loans, was receivable from subprime borrowers. We had no U.S. subprime
residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2009. See Note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Other GECS receivables

totaled
$18.8 billion at December 31, 2009, and $18.6 billion at December 31, 2008, and
consisted primarily of amounts due from GE (generally related to material
procurement programs of $2.5 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively), amounts due from Qualified Special Purpose Entities
(QSPEs), insurance receivables, nonfinancing customer receivables, amounts
accrued from investment income, amounts due under operating leases and various
sundry items.

Property, plant and equipment

totaled $69.2 billion at December 31, 2009, down $9.3 billion from 2008,
primarily reflecting the deconsolidation of PTL and the classification of NBCU
and our Security business as held for sale. GE property, plant and equipment
consisted of investments for its own productive use, whereas the largest element
for GECS was equipment provided to third parties on operating leases. Details by
category of investment are presented in Note 7 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

GE
additions to property, plant and equipment totaled $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion
in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total expenditures, excluding equipment leased
to others, for the past five years were $13.9 billion, of which 38% was
investment for growth through new capacity and product development; 28% was
investment in productivity through new equipment and process improvements; and
34% was investment for other purposes such as improvement of research and
development facilities and safety and environmental protection.

GECS
additions to property, plant and equipment were $6.4 billion and $13.3 billion
during 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily reflecting acquisitions and
additions of commercial aircraft at the GECAS business of Capital
Finance.

(54)

Goodwill and other intangible
assets

totaled $65.6 billion and $11.9 billion, respectively, at December
31, 2009. Goodwill decreased $16.2 billion from 2008, primarily from
dispositions (including the classification of NBCU and our Security business as
held for sale) and the PTL deconsolidation, partially offset by the effects of
the weaker U.S. dollar and acquisitions, including BAC and Interbanca S.p.A. by
Capital Finance and Airfoils Technologies International – Singapore Pte. Ltd.
(ATI – Singapore) at Technology Infrastructure. Other intangible assets
decreased $3.0 billion from 2008, primarily from dispositions and amortization
expense. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

All other assets

totaled
$103.4 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $3.5 billion, reflecting the
classification of NBCU as held for sale and decreases in the fair value of
derivative instruments, partially offset by a $5.8 billion equity method
investment in PTL following our partial sale in the first quarter of 2009 and
increases in contract costs and estimated earnings. We recognized
other-than-temporary impairments of cost and equity method investments of $0.9
billion and $0.5 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Included
in other assets are Real Estate equity investments of $32.2 billion and $32.8
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our portfolio is
diversified, both geographically and by asset type. However, the global real
estate market is subject to periodic cycles that can cause significant
fluctuations in market value. Throughout the year, these markets have been
increasingly affected by rising unemployment, a slowdown in general business
activity and continued challenging conditions in the credit markets. We expect
these markets will continue to be affected while the economic environment
remains challenging.

We
review the estimated values of our commercial real estate investments
semi-annually. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2009, the carrying
value of our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by about $7
billion. The estimated value of the portfolio reflects the continued
deteriorating real estate values and market  fundamentals, including
reduced market occupancy rates and market rents as well as the effects of
limited real estate market liquidity. Given the current and expected challenging
market conditions, there continues to be risk and uncertainty surrounding
commercial real estate values and our unrealized loss on real estate equity
properties may continue to increase. Declines in estimated value of real estate
below carrying amount result in impairment losses when the aggregate
undiscounted cash flow estimates used in the estimated value measurement are
below the carrying amount. As such, estimated losses in the portfolio will not
necessarily result in recognized impairment losses. When we recognize an
impairment, the impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the
underlying asset which is based upon current market data, including current
capitalization rates. During 2009, Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of
$0.8 billion in its real estate investments, compared with $0.3 billion for the
comparable period in 2008. Continued deterioration in economic and market
conditions may result in further impairments being recognized.

Contract
costs and estimated earnings reflect revenues earned in excess of billings on
our long-term contracts to construct technically complex equipment (such as
power generation, aircraft engines and aeroderivative units) and long-term
product maintenance or extended warranty arrangements. Our total contract costs
and estimated earnings balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $7.4 billion
and $6.0 billion, respectively, reflecting the timing of billing in relation to
work performed, as well as changes in estimates of future revenues and costs.
Our total contract costs and estimated earnings balance at December 31, 2009,
primarily related to customers in our Energy, Aviation and Transportation
businesses. Further information is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates
section of this Item.

Liquidity
and Borrowings

We
manage our liquidity to help ensure access to sufficient funding at acceptable
costs to meet our business needs and financial obligations throughout business
cycles. Our obligations include principal payments on outstanding borrowings,
interest on borrowings, purchase obligations for inventory and equipment and
general obligations such as collateral deposits held or collateral required to
be posted to counterparties, payroll and general expenses. We rely on cash
generated through our operating activities as well as unsecured and secured
funding sources, including commercial paper, term debt, bank borrowings,
securitization and other retail funding products.

(55)

Sources
for payment of our obligations are determined through our annual financial and
strategic planning processes. Our 2010 funding plan anticipates repayment of
principal on outstanding short-term borrowings ($133.1 billion at December 31,
2009) through commercial paper issuances; cash on hand; long-term debt
issuances; collections of financing receivables exceeding originations; and
deposit funding and alternative sources of funding.

Interest
on borrowings is primarily funded through interest earned on existing financing
receivables. During 2009, GECS earned interest income on financing receivables
of $23.4 billion, which more than offset interest expense of $17.9 billion.
Purchase obligations and other general obligations are funded through customer
sales revenues (industrial) or collection of principal on our existing portfolio
of loans and leases (financial services), cash on hand and operating cash
flow.

We
maintain a strong focus on our liquidity. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, we
have taken a number of actions to strengthen and maintain liquidity,
including:

·

At
      December 31, 2009, our cash and equivalents were $72.3 billion and
      committed credit lines were $51.7 billion, which in the aggregate were
      more than twice our GECS commercial paper borrowings balance. We intend to
      maintain committed credit lines and cash in excess of GECS commercial
      paper borrowings going forward.

·

In
      2009, we reduced ENI (excluding the effects of currency exchange rates) in
      our Capital Finance business by approximately $53 billion, primarily
      through slowing originations.

·

GECS
      commercial paper borrowings were $47.3 billion at December 31, 2009,
      compared with $71.8 billion at December 31,
  2008.

·

We
      have completed our long-term debt funding target of $38 billion for 2010,
      and in 2010 have issued $5.1 billion (through February 15, 2010) towards
      our long-term debt funding target for
2011.

·

During
      2009, we issued an aggregate of $23.2 billion of long-term debt (including
      $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter) that is not guaranteed under the
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity
      Guarantee Program (TLGP).

·

At
      GECS, we are managing collections versus originations to help support
      liquidity needs. In 2009, collections exceeded originations by
      approximately $44.0 billion.

·

As
      of December 31, 2009, we had issued notes from our securitization
      platforms in an aggregate amount of $14.0 billion; $4.3 billion of these
      notes were eligible for investors to use as collateral under the Federal
      Reserve Bank of New York’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility
      (TALF).

·

In
      February 2009, we announced the reduction of the quarterly GE stock
      dividend by 68%, from $0.31 per share to $0.10 per share, effective with
      the dividend approved by the Board in June 2009, which was paid in the
      third quarter. This reduction had the effect of reducing cash outflows of
      the company by approximately $4 billion in the second half of 2009 and
      will save approximately $9 billion annually
  thereafter.

·

In
      September 2008, we reduced the GECS dividend to GE and suspended our stock
      repurchase program. Effective January 2009, we fully suspended the GECS
      dividend to GE.

·

In
      October 2008, we raised $15 billion in cash through common and preferred
      stock offerings and we contributed $15 billion to GECS, including $9.5
      billion in the first quarter of 2009 (of which $8.8 billion was further
      contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution and share
      issuance), in order to improve tangible capital and reduce
      leverage.

(56)

Cash
and Equivalents

We have
cash and equivalents of $72.3 billion at December 31, 2009, which is available
to meet Company needs. A substantial portion of this is freely available. About
$8 billion is in regulated entities and is subject to regulatory restrictions.
About $9 billion is held outside the U.S. and is available to fund operations
and other growth of non-U.S. subsidiaries; it is also available to fund Company
needs in the U.S. on a short-term basis (without being subject to U.S. tax). We
anticipate that we will continue to generate cash from operating activities in
the future, which will be available to help meet our liquidity needs. We also
generate substantial cash from the principal collections of loans and rentals
from leased assets.

We have
committed, unused credit lines totaling $51.7 billion that had been extended to
us by 59 financial institutions at December 31, 2009. These lines include $36.8
billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow funds for
periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $14.4 billion are 364-day lines that
contain a term-out feature that allows us to extend borrowings for one year from
the date of expiration of the lending agreement.

Funding
Plan

In 2009,
GECS issued $69.7 billion of long-term debt, including $46.5 billion issued
under the TLGP and $23.2 billion in non-guaranteed senior, unsecured debt with
maturities up to 30 years. Included in our 2009 issuances is $38 billion that
represents the pre-funding of our 2010 long-term debt funding plan. In 2010, we
have issued $5.1 billion (through February 15, 2010) toward our 2011 long-term
funding plan.

Under
the TLGP, the FDIC guaranteed certain senior, unsecured debt issued on or before
October 31, 2009. Our TLGP-guaranteed debt matures in 2010 ($6 billion), 2011
($18 billion) and 2012 ($35 billion). We anticipate funding of these and our
other long-term debt maturities through a combination of new debt issuances,
collections exceeding originations, alternative funding sources and use of
existing cash.

We
currently expect that the expiration of the TLGP will not have a significant
effect on our liquidity. If, however, significant disruption in the credit
markets were to return or if the challenging market conditions continue, our
ability to issue unsecured long-term debt may be affected. In the event we
cannot sufficiently access our normal sources of funding as a result of the
ongoing credit market turmoil, we have a number of alternative means to enhance
liquidity, including:

·

Controlling
      new originations in GE Capital to reduce capital and funding
      requirements

·

Using
      part of our available cash balance

·

Pursuing
      alternative funding sources, including bank deposits and asset-backed
      fundings

·

Using
      our bank credit lines which, with our cash, we intend to maintain in
      excess of our outstanding commercial
paper

·

Generating
      additional cash from industrial
operations

·

Contributing
      additional capital from GE to GE Capital, including from funds retained as
      a result of the reduction in our dividend announced in February 2009 or
      future dividend reductions

We
believe that our existing funds, combined with our alternative means to enhance
liquidity, provide us with sufficient funds to meet our needs and financial
obligations.

(57)

We
maintain securitization capability in most of the asset classes we have
traditionally securitized. However, in 2008 and 2009 these capabilities have
been, and continue to be, more limited than in 2007. We have continued to
execute new securitizations throughout this period using bank administered
commercial paper conduits, and more recently have executed new securitizations
in both the public term markets and in the private markets. In 2009, we have
completed issuances from these platforms in an aggregate amount of $14.0
billion. $4.3 billion of these issuances were eligible for investors to use as
collateral under TALF. Total proceeds, including sales to revolving facilities,
from our securitizations were $18.7 billion and $71.4 billion during the three
months and year-ended December 31, 2009, respectively. Comparable amounts for
2008 were $17.8 billion and $76.8 billion, respectively.

We have
deposit-taking capability at 18 banks outside of the U.S. and two banks in the
U.S. – GE Money Bank, a Federal Savings Bank (FSB), and GE Capital Financial
Inc., an industrial bank (IB). The FSB and IB currently issue certificates of
deposit (CDs) distributed by brokers in maturity terms from three months to ten
years. Bank deposits, which are a large component of our alternative funding,
were $38.9 billion at December 31, 2009, including CDs of $17.7 billion. Total
alternative funding increased from $55 billion to $57 billion during 2009,
primarily resulting from an increase in bank deposits mainly from the
acquisitions of BAC and Interbanca S.p.A., partially offset by a planned
reduction in bank borrowings.

Exchange rate and interest rate
risks

are managed with a variety of techniques, including match funding
and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate
certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse
markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition,
we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or
floating nature of the assets we are originating. We apply strict policies to
manage each of these risks, including prohibitions on speculative activities.
Following is an analysis of the potential effects of changes in interest rates
and currency exchange rates using so-called “shock” tests that model effects of
shifts in rates. These are not forecasts.

·

It
      is our policy to minimize exposure to interest rate changes. We fund our
      financial investments using debt or a combination of debt and hedging
      instruments so that the interest rates of our borrowings match the
      expected yields on our assets. To test the effectiveness of our positions,
      we assumed that, on January 1, 2010, interest rates increased by 100 basis
      points across the yield curve (a “parallel shift” in that curve) and
      further assumed that the increase remained in place for 2010. We
      estimated, based on the year-end 2009 portfolio and holding all other
      assumptions constant, that our 2010 consolidated net earnings would
      decline by $0.1 billion as a result of this parallel shift in the yield
      curve.

·

It
      is our policy to minimize currency exposures and to conduct operations
      either within functional currencies or using the protection of hedge
      strategies. We analyzed year-end 2009 consolidated currency exposures,
      including derivatives designated and effective as hedges, to identify
      assets and liabilities denominated in other than their relevant functional
      currencies. For such assets and liabilities, we then evaluated the effects
      of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S.
      dollar. This analysis indicated that there would be an inconsequential
      effect on 2010 earnings of such a shift in exchange
  rates.

Debt
Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants

Credit
Ratings

The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based
on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency
with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On March 12, 2009,
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded GE and GE Capital’s long-term rating
by one notch from “AAA” to “AA+” and, at the same time, revised the outlook from
negative to stable. Under S&P’s definitions, an obligation rated “AAA” has
the highest rating assigned by S&P. The obligor's capacity to meet its
financial commitment on the obligation is extremely strong. An obligation rated
“AA” differs from an obligation rated “AAA” only to a small degree in that the
obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is very
strong. An S&P rating outlook assesses the potential direction of a
long-term credit rating over the intermediate term. In determining a rating
outlook, consideration is given to any changes in the economic and/or
fundamental business conditions. Stable means that a rating is not likely to
change in the next six months to two years.

(58)

On March
23, 2009, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) downgraded GE and GE Capital’s
long-term rating by two notches from “Aaa” to “Aa2” with a stable outlook and
removed us from review for possible downgrade. Under Moody’s definitions,
obligations rated “Aaa” are judged to be of the highest quality, with minimal
credit risk. Obligations rated “Aa” are judged to be of high quality and are
subject to very low credit risk.

In 2009,
the short-term ratings of “A-1+/P-1” were affirmed by both rating agencies at
the same time with respect to GE, GE Capital Services and GE Capital. These
short-term ratings are in the highest rating categories available from S&P
and Moody's. Under the S&P definitions, a short-term obligation rated "A-1+"
indicates that the obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitment is
extremely strong. Under the Moody's definitions, an issuer that is rated "P-1"
has a superior ability to repay short-term debt obligations.

We do
not believe that the downgrades by S&P and Moody’s have had a material
impact on our cost of funding or liquidity as the downgrades had been widely
anticipated in the market and were already reflected in the spreads on our
debt.

GE, GECS
and GE Capital have distinct business characteristics that the major debt rating
agencies evaluate both quantitatively and qualitatively.

Quantitative
measures include:

·

Earnings
      and profitability, revenue growth, the breadth and diversity of sources of
      income and return on assets

·

Asset
      quality, including delinquency and write-off ratios and reserve
      coverage

·

Funding
      and liquidity, including cash generated from operating activities,
      leverage ratios such as debt-to-capital, retained cash flow to debt,
      market access, back-up liquidity from banks and other sources, composition
      of total debt and interest coverage

·

Capital
      adequacy, including required capital and tangible leverage
      ratios

Qualitative
measures include:

·

Franchise
      strength, including competitive advantage and market conditions and
      position

·

Strength
      of management, including experience, corporate governance and strategic
      thinking

·

Financial
      reporting quality, including clarity, completeness and transparency of all
      financial performance
communications

Principal debt conditions

are
described below.

The
following conditions relate to GE and GECS:

·

Swap,
      forward and option contracts are executed under standard master agreements
      that typically contain mutual downgrade provisions that provide the
      ability of the counterparty to require termination if the long-term credit
      rating of the applicable GE entity were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of
      these master agreements, the counterparty also has the ability to require
      termination if the short-term rating of the applicable GE entity were to
      fall below A-1/P-1. The net derivative liability after consideration of
      netting arrangements and collateral posted by us under these master
      agreements was estimated to be $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009. See Note
      22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
    Report.

(59)

·

If
      GE Capital's ratio of earnings to fixed charges were to deteriorate to
      below 1.10:1, GE has committed to make payments to GE Capital. See Income
      Maintenance Agreement section of this Item for further discussion. GE also
      guaranteed certain issuances of GECS subordinated debt having a face
      amount of $0.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and
  2008.

·

In
      connection with certain subordinated debentures for which GECC receives
      equity credit by rating agencies, GE has agreed to promptly return to GECC
      dividends, distributions or other payments it receives from GECC during
      events of default or interest deferral periods under such subordinated
      debentures. There were $7.6 billion of such debentures outstanding at
      December 31, 2009. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in
      Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this
      Form 10-K Report.

The
following conditions relate to consolidated entities:

·

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital or certain consolidated
      entities were to be reduced below A-1/P-1, GE Capital would be required to
      provide substitute liquidity for those entities or provide funds to retire
      the outstanding commercial paper. The maximum net amount that GE Capital
      would be required to provide in the event of such a downgrade is
      determined by contract, and amounted to $2.5 billion at December 31, 2009.
      See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
      “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
      Report.

·

One
      group of consolidated entities holds investment securities funded by the
      issuance of GICs. If the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to
      fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below
      A-1+/P-1, GE Capital would be required to provide approximately $2.4
      billion to such entities as of December 31, 2009, pursuant to letters of
      credit issued by GE Capital. To the extent that the entities’ liabilities
      exceed the ultimate value of the proceeds from the sale of their assets
      and the amount drawn under the letters of credit, GE Capital could be
      required to provide such excess amount. As of December 31, 2009, the value
      of these entities’ liabilities was $8.5 billion and the fair value of
      their assets was $7.3 billion (which included unrealized losses on
      investment securities of $1.4 billion). With respect to these investment
      securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their
      individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability
      to hold all such debt securities until
maturity.

·

Another
      consolidated entity also issues GICs where proceeds are loaned to GE
      Capital. If the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to fall below
      AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GE
      Capital could be required to provide up to approximately $3.0 billion as
      of December 31, 2009, to repay holders of GICs. These obligations are
      included in Long-term borrowings in our Statement of Financial
      Position.

·

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital were reduced below A-1/P-1, GE
      Capital would be required to partially cash collateralize certain covered
      bonds. The maximum amount that would be required to be provided in the
      event of such a downgrade is determined by contract and amounted to $0.8
      billion at December 31, 2009. These obligations are included in Long-term
      borrowings in our Statement of Financial
  Position.

Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges

As set
forth in Exhibit 99(e) hereto, GE Capital’s ratio of earnings to fixed charges
declined to 0.85:1 during 2009 due to lower pre-tax earnings at GE Capital,
which were primarily driven by higher provisions for losses on financing
receivables in connection with the challenging economic
environment.

(60)

Income
Maintenance Agreement

On March
28, 1991, GE entered into an agreement with GE Capital to make payments to GE
Capital, constituting additions to pre-tax income under the agreement, to the
extent necessary to cause the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital
and consolidated affiliates (determined on a consolidated basis) to be not less
than 1.10:1 for the period, as a single aggregation, of each GE Capital fiscal
year commencing with fiscal year 1991. On October 29, 2009, GE and GE Capital
amended this agreement (which is filed as Exhibit 10(v) hereto) to extend the
notice period for termination from three years to five years. It was further
amended to provide that any future amendments to the agreement that could
adversely affect GE Capital require the consent of the majority of the holders
of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of senior unsecured debt
securities issued or guaranteed by GE Capital (with an original stated maturity
in excess of 270 days), unless the amendment does not trigger a downgrade of GE
Capital’s long-term ratings.

GE made
a $9.5 billion payment to GECS in the first quarter of 2009 (of which $8.8
billion was further contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution and
share issuance) to improve tangible capital and reduce leverage. This payment
constitutes an addition to pre-tax income under the agreement and therefore
increased the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital for the fiscal
year 2009 for purposes of the agreement to 1.33:1. As a result, no further
payments under the agreement in 2010 are required related to 2009. Should this
ratio fall below 1.10:1 for the fiscal year 2010, further payments would be
required by GE to GE Capital. We currently expect to make a payment from GE to
GE Capital in 2011 of about $2 billion pursuant to this agreement.

Any
payment made under the Income Maintenance Agreement will not affect the ratio of
earnings to fixed charges as determined in accordance with current SEC rules
because it does not constitute an addition to pre-tax income under current U.S.
GAAP.

TLGP

On
November 12, 2008, the FDIC approved GE Capital’s application for designation as
an eligible entity under the FDIC’s TLGP. Qualifying debt issued by GE Capital
on or before October 31, 2009, is guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program of
the TLGP and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The
FDIC’s guarantee under the TLGP is effective until the earlier of the maturity
of the debt or December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2009, GE Capital had issued
and outstanding, $59.3 billion of senior, unsecured debt that was guaranteed by
the FDIC under the TLGP. We have incurred $2.3 billion of fees for our
participation in the TLGP through December 31, 2009. These fees are amortized
into interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings. GE Capital and
GE are parties to an Eligible Entity Designation Agreement and GE Capital is
subject to the terms of a Master Agreement, each entered into with the FDIC. The
terms of these agreements include, among other things, a requirement that GE and
GE Capital reimburse the FDIC for any amounts that the FDIC pays to holders of
GE Capital debt that is guaranteed by the FDIC.

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners’ Equity

GE
shareowners’ equity increased by $12.6 billion in 2009, compared with a decrease
of $10.9 billion in 2008 and an increase of $4.1 billion in 2007.

Net
earnings increased GE shareowners' equity by $11.0 billion, $17.4 billion and
$22.2 billion, partially offset by dividends declared of $6.8 billion, $12.6
billion and $11.7 billion in 2009, 2008, 2007, respectively.

Elements
of Other Comprehensive Income increased shareowners’ equity by $6.7 billion in
2009, compared with a decrease of $30.2 billion in 2008 and an increase of $4.9
billion in 2007, inclusive of changes in accounting principles. The components
of these changes are as follows:

(61)

·

Changes
      in benefit plans reduced shareowners’ equity by $1.8 billion in 2009,
      primarily reflecting a decrease in the discount rate used to value pension
      and postretirement benefit obligations. This compared with a decrease of
      $13.3 billion and an increase of $2.6 billion in 2008 and 2007,
      respectively. The decrease in 2008 primarily related to declines in the
      fair value of plan assets as a result of market conditions and adverse
      changes in the economic environment. Further information about changes in
      benefit plans is provided in Note 12 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

·

Currency
      translation adjustments increased shareowners’ equity by $4.1 billion in
      2009, decreased equity by $11.0 billion in 2008 and increased equity by
      $4.5 billion in 2007. Changes in currency translation adjustments reflect
      the effects of changes in currency exchange rates on our net investment in
      non-U.S. subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S.
      dollar. At the end of 2009, the U.S. dollar was weaker against most major
      currencies, including the pound sterling, the Australian dollar and the
      euro, compared with a stronger dollar against those currencies at the end
      of 2008 and a weaker dollar against those currencies at the end of 2007.
      The dollar was weaker against the Japanese yen in 2008 and
      2007.

·

The
      change in fair value of investment securities increased shareowners’
      equity by $2.7 billion in 2009, reflecting improved market conditions
      related to securities classified as available for sale, primarily
      corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities. The change in fair value of
      investment securities decreased shareowners’ equity by $3.2 billion and
      $1.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further information about
      investment securities is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

·

Changes
      in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges increased
      shareowners’ equity by $1.6 billion in 2009, primarily related to the
      effect of higher U.S. interest rates on interest rate swaps and lower
      foreign rates on cross-currency swaps. The change in the fair value of
      derivatives designated as cash flow hedges decreased equity by $2.7
      billion and $0.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further
      information about the fair value of derivatives is provided in Note 22 to
      the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
    Report.

As
discussed previously in the Liquidity and Borrowings section of this Item, we
took a number of actions in 2008 and 2009 to strengthen our liquidity and our
credit rating. Such actions also had an effect on shareowners’ equity, which
included a $15 billion addition to equity through common and preferred stock
offerings in the fourth quarter of 2008 and reduction in the dividend on GE
stock, which had a $4 billion positive effect on equity in 2009.

Overview
of Our Cash Flow from 2007 through 2009

Consolidated
cash and equivalents were $72.3 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of
$24.1 billion from December 31, 2008. Cash and equivalents totaled $48.2 billion
at December 31, 2008, an increase of $32.5 billion from December 31,
2007.

We
evaluate our cash flow performance by reviewing our industrial (non-financial
services) businesses and financial services businesses separately. Cash from
operating activities (CFOA) is the principal source of cash generation for our
industrial businesses. The industrial businesses also have liquidity available
via the public capital markets. Our financial services businesses use a variety
of financial resources to meet our capital needs. Cash for financial services
businesses is primarily provided from the issuance of term debt and commercial
paper in the public and private markets, as well as financing receivables
collections, sales and securitizations.

GE
Cash Flow

GE cash
and equivalents were $8.7 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $12.1
billion at December 31, 2008. GE CFOA totaled $16.6 billion in 2009 compared
with $19.1 billion and $23.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. With
respect to GE CFOA, we believe that it is useful to supplement our GE Statement
of Cash Flows and to examine in a broader context the business activities that
provide and require cash.

(62)

(a)

GE
      sells customer receivables to GECS in part to fund the growth of our
      industrial businesses. These transactions can result in cash generation or
      cash use. During any given period, GE receives cash from the sale of
      receivables to GECS. It also foregoes collection of cash on receivables
      sold. The incremental amount of cash received from sale of receivables in
      excess of the cash GE would have otherwise collected had those receivables
      not been sold, represents the cash generated or used in the period
      relating to this activity. The incremental cash generated in GE CFOA from
      selling these receivables to GECS increased GE CFOA by an insignificant
      amount and $0.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 26 to the
      consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. "Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data" for this Form 10-K Report for
      additional information about the elimination of intercompany transactions
      between GE and GECS.

The most
significant source of cash in GE CFOA is customer-related activities, the
largest of which is collecting cash following a product or services sale. GE
operating cash collections decreased by $11.4 billion in 2009 and increased by
$12.7 billion in 2008. These changes are consistent with the changes in
comparable GE operating segment revenues. Analyses of operating segment revenues
discussed in the preceding Segment Operations section are the best way of
understanding their customer-related CFOA.

The most
significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax
authorities and others for a wide range of material and services. GE operating
cash payments decreased in 2009 by $11.3 billion and increased by $12.0 billion
in 2008. These changes are consistent with the changes in GE total costs and
expenses.

GE CFOA
decreased $2.5 billion compared with 2008, primarily reflecting the lack of a
current-year dividend from GECS ($2.4 billion). In 2008, GE CFOA decreased $4.2
billion compared with 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in the dividend from
GECS of $4.9 billion.

Dividends
from GECS represented the distribution of a portion of GECS retained earnings
and are distinct from cash from continuing operating activities within the
financial services businesses. The amounts included in GE CFOA are the total
dividends, including normal dividends as well as any special dividends from
excess capital, primarily resulting from GECS business sales. Beginning in the
first quarter of 2009, GECS fully suspended its normal dividend to
GE.

GECS
Cash Flow

GECS
cash and equivalents were $64.4 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with
$37.5 billion at December 31, 2008. GECS cash from operating activities totaled
$7.6 billion in 2009, compared with cash from operating activities of $31.2
billion in 2008. This decrease was primarily due to an overall decline in net
earnings, a current-year reduction in cash collateral held from counterparties
on derivative contracts of $6.9 billion and declines in taxes payable ($2.7
billion). In addition, 2008 GECS cash from operating activities benefited from
an increase in cash collateral posted by counterparties.

Consistent
with our plan to reduce GECS asset levels, cash from investing activities was
$45.7 billion in 2009; $44.0 billion resulted from a reduction in financing
receivables, primarily from collections exceeding originations and $9.1 billion
resulted from proceeds from business dispositions, including the consumer
businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the
U.K., the credit card business in Ireland, a portion of our Australian
residential mortgage business and the Thailand business. These sources were
partially offset by cash used for acquisitions of $5.7 billion, primarily for
the acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A.

GECS
cash used for financing activities in 2009 reflected our continued reduction in
ending net investment. Cash used for financing activities of $26.4 billion
related primarily to a $26.9 billion reduction in borrowings (maturities 90 days
or less), primarily commercial paper, reductions in long-term borrowings
partially offset by the pre-funding of our 2010 long-term debt maturities, and a
$4.0 billion decrease in bank deposits, partially offset by a capital
contribution from GE to GECS of $9.5 billion.

(63)

GECS
pays dividends to GE through a distribution of its retained earnings, including
special dividends from proceeds of certain business sales. There were no
dividends paid to GE in 2009 compared with $2.4 billion and $7.3 billion in 2008
and 2007, respectively. There were no special dividends paid to GE in 2009 and
2008, compared with $2.4 billion in 2007.

Intercompany
Eliminations

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. See Note 26
to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report for further
information related to intercompany eliminations.

Contractual
Obligations

As
defined by reporting regulations, our contractual obligations for future
payments as of December 31, 2009, follow.

(a)

Included
      all take-or-pay arrangements, capital expenditures, contractual
      commitments to purchase equipment that will be leased to others,
      contractual commitments related to factoring agreements, software
      acquisition/license commitments, contractual minimum programming
      commitments and any contractually required cash payments for
      acquisitions.

(b)

Excluded
      funding commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business by our
      financial services businesses. Further information on these commitments
      and other guarantees is provided in Note 24 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

(c)

Included
      contracts with reasonably determinable cash flows such as structured
      settlements, certain property and casualty contracts, and guaranteed
      investment contracts.

(d)

Included
      an estimate of future expected funding requirements related to our pension
      and postretirement benefit plans and included liabilities for unrecognized
      tax benefits. Because their future cash outflows are uncertain, the
      following non-current liabilities are excluded from the table above:
      deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred revenue and other sundry items. See
      Notes 14 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
      8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report
      for further information on certain of these
  items.

(e)

Included
      payments for other liabilities.

Variable
Interest Entities and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We
securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in
the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns and as an
alternative source of funding. The securitization transactions we engage in are
similar to those used by many financial institutions. Our securitization
activities are conducted using Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), principally
QSPEs.

(64)

Certain
of our VIEs are consolidated because we are considered to be the primary
beneficiary of the entity. Our interests in other VIEs for which we are not the
primary beneficiary and QSPEs are accounted for as investment securities,
financing receivables or equity method investments depending on the nature of
our involvement. At December 31, 2009, consolidated variable interest entity
assets and liabilities were $17.0 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively, a
decrease of $9.9 billion and $6.2 billion from 2008, respectively. In the first
quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated PTL and removed $7.0 billion of assets and
$0.8 billion of liabilities from our balance sheet. The deconsolidation was a
result of our reducing our investment in PTL by selling a 1% limited partnership
interest to Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, the general partner of PTL, whose
majority shareowner is a member of GE’s Board of Directors, coupled with our
resulting minority position on the PTL advisory committee and related changes in
our contractual rights. We recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $0.3
billion, including a gain on the remeasurement of our retained investment of
$0.2 billion.

At
December 31, 2009, variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs other than QSPEs
were $9.7 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion from 2008, primarily related to
the deconsolidation of PTL. In addition to our existing investments, we have
contractual obligations to fund additional investments in the unconsolidated
VIEs of $1.4 billion, an increase of $0.2 billion from 2008. Together, these
represent our maximum exposure to loss if the assets of the unconsolidated VIEs
were to have no value.

QSPEs
that we use for securitization are funded with asset-backed commercial paper and
term debt. The assets we securitize include: receivables secured by equipment,
commercial real estate, credit card receivables, floorplan inventory
receivables, GE trade receivables and other assets originated and underwritten
by us in the ordinary course of business. At December 31, 2009, securitization
entities held $46.9 billion in transferred financial assets, a decrease of $5.7
billion from year-end 2008. Assets held by these entities are of equivalent
credit quality to our on-book assets. We monitor the underlying credit quality
in accordance with our role as servicer and apply rigorous controls to the
execution of securitization transactions. With the exception of credit and
liquidity support discussed below, investors in these entities have recourse
only to the underlying assets.

At
December 31, 2009, our Statement of Financial Position included $11.8 billion in
retained interests related to the transferred financial assets discussed above.
These retained interests are held by QSPEs and VIEs for which we are not the
primary beneficiary and take two forms: (1) sellers’ interests, which are
classified as financing receivables, and (2) subordinated interests, designed to
provide credit enhancement to senior interests, which are classified as
investment securities. The carrying value of our retained interests classified
as financing receivables was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease
of  $1.2 billion from 2008. The carrying value of our retained
interests classified as investment securities was $8.8 billion at December 31,
2009, an increase of $2.5 billion from 2008. Certain of these retained interests
are accounted for with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. During 2009,
we recognized increases in fair values on these retained interests of $0.3
billion compared with declines in fair value on these retained interests of $0.1
billion in 2008. For those retained interests classified as investment
securities, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments of $0.1 billion in
2009, compared with $0.3 billion in 2008. Our recourse liability in these
arrangements was an inconsequential amount in both 2009 and 2008.

We are
party to various credit enhancement positions with securitization entities,
including liquidity and credit support agreements and guarantee and
reimbursement contracts, and have provided our best estimate of the fair value
of estimated losses on such positions. The estimate of fair value is based on
prevailing market conditions at December 31, 2009. Should market conditions
deteriorate, actual losses could be higher. Our exposure to loss under such
agreements was limited to $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009.

We do
not have implicit support arrangements with any VIE or QSPE. We did not provide
non-contractual support for previously transferred financing receivables to any
VIE or QSPE in either 2009 or 2008.

(65)

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17 amendments to ASC 860,

Transfers and Servicing

, and
ASC 810,

Consolidation

,
respectively, which are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs. Upon adoption we will record assets and
liabilities of these entities at carrying amounts consistent as if they had
always been consolidated, which will require the reversal of a portion of
previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect adjustment to
retained earnings. See the New Accounting Standards section of this Item for
further discussion.

Critical
Accounting Estimates

Accounting
estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider
to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because
they involve significant judgments and uncertainties. Many of these estimates
include determining fair value. All of these estimates reflect our best judgment
about current, and for some estimates future, economic and market conditions and
their effects based on information available as of the date of these financial
statements. If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which
may result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill, intangibles
and long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables,
establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax
liabilities, among other effects. Also see Note 1, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this Form 10-K Report, which discusses the significant accounting
policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives.

Losses on financing
receivables

are recognized when they are incurred, which requires us to
make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. This
estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for
current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant
observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency
rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral
values, and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. Our risk
management process includes standards and policies for reviewing major risk
exposures and concentrations, and we evaluate relevant data either for
individual loans or financing leases, or on a portfolio basis, as
appropriate.

Further
information is provided in the Global Risk Management section and Financial
Resources and Liquidity – Financing Receivables section of this Item, the Asset
impairment section that follows and in Notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Revenue recognition on long-term
product services agreements

requires estimates of profits over the
multiple-year terms of such agreements, considering factors such as the
frequency and extent of future monitoring, maintenance and overhaul events; the
amount of personnel, spare parts and other resources required to perform the
services; and future billing rate and cost changes. We routinely review
estimates under product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust
for changes in outlook. We also regularly assess customer credit risk inherent
in the carrying amounts of receivables and contract costs and estimated
earnings, including the risk that contractual penalties may not be sufficient to
offset our accumulated investment in the event of customer termination. We gain
insight into future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through
our knowledge of the installed base of equipment and the close interaction with
our customers that comes with supplying critical services and parts over
extended periods. Revisions that affect a product services agreement’s total
estimated profitability result in an adjustment of earnings; such adjustments
increased earnings by $0.2 billion in 2009, decreased earnings by $0.2 billion
in 2008 and increased earnings by $0.4 billion in 2007. We provide for probable
losses when they become evident.

Further
information is provided in Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

(66)

Asset impairment

assessment
involves various estimates and assumptions as follows:

Investments.

We regularly
review investment securities for impairment using both quantitative and
qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended ASC 320 and
modified the requirements for recognizing and measuring other-than-temporary
impairment for debt securities. If we do not intend to sell the security and it
is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before
recovery of our amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative criteria to
determine whether a credit loss exists, such as the financial health of and
specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance
with the terms and covenants of the security. Quantitative criteria include
determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future cash
flows. For equity securities, our criteria include the length of time and
magnitude of the amount that each security is in an unrealized loss position.
Our other-than-temporary impairment reviews involve our finance, risk and asset
management functions as well as the portfolio management and research
capabilities of our internal and third-party asset managers. See Note 21 in Part
II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report, which discusses the determination of fair value of investment
securities.

Further
information about actual and potential impairment losses is provided in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity – Investment Securities section of this Item
and in Notes 1, 3 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Long-Lived Assets.

We review
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining
whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and
assumptions, including determining which undiscounted cash flows are directly
related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows
will occur, their amount, and the asset’s residual value, if any. In turn,
measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which
is based on the best information available. We derive the required undiscounted
cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business
plans. To determine fair value, we use quoted market prices when available, our
internal cash flow estimates discounted at an appropriate interest rate and
independent appraisals, as appropriate.

Our
operating lease portfolio of commercial aircraft is a significant concentration
of assets in Capital Finance, and is particularly subject to market
fluctuations. Therefore, we test recoverability of each aircraft in our
operating lease portfolio at least annually. Additionally, we perform quarterly
evaluations in circumstances such as when aircraft are re-leased, current lease
terms have changed or a specific lessee’s credit standing changes. We consider
market conditions, such as global demand for commercial aircraft. Estimates of
future rentals and residual values are based on historical experience and
information received routinely from independent appraisers. Estimated cash flows
from future leases are reduced for expected downtime between leases and for
estimated technical costs required to prepare aircraft to be redeployed. Fair
value used to measure impairment is based on management's best estimate. In
determining its best estimate, management evaluates average current market
values (obtained from third parties) of similar type and age aircraft, which are
adjusted for the attributes of the specific aircraft under lease.

We
recognized impairment losses on our operating lease portfolio of commercial
aircraft of $0.1 billion in both 2009 and 2008. Provisions for losses on
financing receivables related to commercial aircraft were $0.1 billion in 2009
and insignificant in 2008.

Further
information on impairment losses and our exposure to the commercial aviation
industry is provided in the Operations – Overview section of this Item and in
Notes 7 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(67)

Real Estate.

We review the
estimated value of our commercial real estate investments semi-annually. The
cash flow estimates used for both estimating value and the recoverability
analysis are inherently judgmental, and reflect current and projected lease
profiles, available industry information about expected trends in rental,
occupancy and capitalization rates and expected business plans, which include
our estimated holding period for the asset. Our portfolio is diversified, both
geographically and by asset type. However, the global real estate market is
subject to periodic cycles that can cause significant fluctuations in market
values. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2009, the carrying value of
our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by about $7 billion.
The estimated value of the portfolio reflects the continued deteriorating real
estate values and market fundamentals, including reduced market occupancy rates
and market rents as well as the effects of limited real estate market liquidity.
Given the current and expected challenging market conditions, there continues to
be risk and uncertainty surrounding commercial real estate values and our
unrealized loss on real estate equity properties may continue to increase.
Declines in the estimated value of real estate below carrying amount result in
impairment losses when the aggregate undiscounted cash flow estimates used in
the estimated value measurement are below the carrying amount. As such,
estimated losses in the portfolio will not necessarily result in recognized
impairment losses. When we recognize an impairment, the impairment is measured
based upon the fair value of the underlying asset, which is based upon current
market data, including current capitalization rates. During 2009, Capital
Finance Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of $0.8 billion in its real
estate held for investment, as compared to $0.3 billion in 2008. Continued
deterioration in economic conditions or prolonged market illiquidity may result
in further impairments being recognized. Furthermore, significant judgment and
uncertainty related to forecasted valuation trends, especially in illiquid
markets, results in inherent imprecision in real estate value estimates. Further
information is provided in the Global Risk Management section of this Item and
in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Goodwill and Other Identified
Intangible Assets.

We test goodwill for impairment annually and more
frequently if circumstances warrant. We determine fair values for each of the
reporting units using an income approach. When available and as appropriate, we
use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results.
For purposes of the income approach, fair value is determined based on the
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate
risk-adjusted rate. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows
and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most
recent views of the long-term outlook for each business. Actual results may
differ from those assumed in our forecasts. We derive our discount rates by
applying the capital asset pricing model (i.e., to estimate the cost of equity
financing) and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to our
reporting units. We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and
uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in our internally
developed forecasts. Valuations using the market approach reflect prices and
other relevant observable information generated by market transactions involving
comparable businesses.

Compared
to the market approach, the income approach more closely aligns the reporting
unit valuation to a company’s or business’ specific business model, geographic
markets and product offerings, as it is based on specific projections of the
business. Required rates of return, along with uncertainty inherent in the
forecasts of future cash flows, are reflected in the selection of the discount
rate. Equally important, under this approach, reasonably likely scenarios and
associated sensitivities can be developed for alternative future circumstances
that may not be reflected in an observable market price. A market approach
allows for comparison to actual market transactions and multiples. It can be
somewhat more limited in its application because the population of potential
comparables (or pure plays) is often limited to publicly-traded companies where
the characteristics of the comparative business and ours can be significantly
different, market data is usually not available for divisions within larger
conglomerates or non-public subsidiaries that could otherwise qualify as
comparable, and the specific circumstances surrounding a market transaction
(e.g., synergies between the parties, terms and conditions of the transaction,
etc.) may be different or irrelevant with respect to our business. It can also
be difficult under the current market conditions to identify orderly
transactions between market participants in similar financial services
businesses. We assess the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and
availability of data at the time of performing the valuation and weight the
methodologies appropriately.

(68)

Given
the significant decline in our stock price in the first quarter of 2009 and
market conditions in the financial services industry at that time, we conducted
an additional impairment analysis of the Capital Finance reporting units during
the first quarter of 2009 using data as of January 1, 2009. As a result of these
tests, no goodwill impairment was recognized.

We
performed our annual impairment test for goodwill at all of our reporting units
in the third quarter using data as of July 1, 2009. In performing the
valuations, we used cash flows, which reflected management’s forecasts and
discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the current market. Based
on the results of our testing, the fair values at each of the GE Industrial
reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS
reporting units exceeded their book values; therefore, the second step of the
impairment test (in which fair value of each of the reporting unit’s assets and
liabilities is measured) was not required to be performed and no goodwill
impairment was recognized. Due to the volatility and uncertainties in the
current commercial real estate environment, we used a range of valuations to
determine the fair value for our Real Estate reporting unit. While the Real
Estate reporting unit’s book value was within the range of its fair value, we
further substantiated our Real Estate goodwill balance by performing the second
step analysis described above. As a result of our tests for Real Estate, no
goodwill impairment was recognized. Our Real Estate reporting unit had a
goodwill balance of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009.

Estimating
the fair value of reporting units involves the use of estimates and significant
judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating
results. If current conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future
periods.

We
review identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to
amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an
impairment loss occurred requires comparing the carrying amount to the sum of
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test
intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair
value method such as discounted cash flows. For our insurance activities
remaining in continuing operations, we periodically test for impairment our
deferred acquisition costs and present value of future profits.

Further
information is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity – Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets section of this Item and in Notes 1 and 8 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Pension assumptions

are
significant inputs to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit
obligations and related effects on operations. Two assumptions – discount rate
and expected return on assets – are important elements of plan expense and
asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least
annually on a plan and country-specific basis. We periodically evaluate other
assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age, mortality and
turnover, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the
future. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial
assumptions because of economic and other factors.

Accumulated
and projected benefit obligations are measured as the present value of future
cash payments. We discount those cash payments using the weighted average of
market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities
that correspond to the payment of benefits. Lower discount rates increase
present values and subsequent-year pension expense; higher discount rates
decrease present values and subsequent-year pension expense.

Our
discount rates for principal pension plans at December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 were 5.78%, 6.11% and 6.34%, respectively, reflecting market interest
rates.

(69)

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we
consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future
return expectations for our principal benefit plans’ assets, we evaluate general
market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected
earnings growth, yields and spreads across a number of potential scenarios.
Assets in our principal pension plans earned 10.0% in 2009, and had average
annual earnings of  3.1%, 8.5% and 10.0% per year in the 10-, 15- and
25-year periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively. Based on our analysis of
future expectations of asset performance, past return results, and our current
and expected asset allocations, we have assumed an 8.5% long-term expected
return on those assets.

Sensitivity
to changes in key assumptions for our principal pension plans
follows.

·

Discount
      rate – A 25 basis point increase in discount rate would decrease pension
      cost in the following year by $0.2 billion and would decrease the pension
      benefit obligation at year-end by about $1.3
  billion.

·

Expected
      return on assets – A 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on
      assets would increase pension cost in the following year by $0.3
      billion.

Further
information on our pension plans is provided in the Operations – Overview
section of this Item and in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Income Taxes

. Our annual tax
rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities
available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are
complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective
governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining
our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating
uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as
new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected
by the tax rate on our global operations. In addition to local country tax laws
and regulations, this rate depends on the extent earnings are indefinitely
reinvested outside the United States. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by
management’s judgment about and intentions concerning the future operations of
the company. At December 31, 2009, $84 billion of earnings have been
indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Most of these earnings have
been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations and we do not intend to
repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Deferred income tax assets
represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in
future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future
expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable
temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning
strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our
historical experience and our short and long-range business forecasts to provide
insight. Further, our global and diversified business portfolio gives us the
opportunity to employ various prudent and feasible tax planning strategies to
facilitate the recoverability of future deductions. Amounts recorded for
deferred tax assets related to non-U.S. net operating losses, net of valuation
allowances, were $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, including $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, reported in assets of discontinued operations, primarily
related to our loss on the sale of GE Money Japan. Such year-end 2009 amounts
are expected to be fully recoverable within the applicable statutory expiration
periods. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a
deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is
established.

Further
information on income taxes is provided in the Operations – Overview section of
this Item and in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

(70)

Derivatives and Hedging.

We
use derivatives to manage a variety of risks, including risks related to
interest rates, foreign exchange and commodity prices. Accounting for
derivatives as hedges requires that, at inception and over the term of the
arrangement, the hedged item and related derivative meet the requirements for
hedge accounting. The rules and interpretations related to derivatives
accounting are complex. Failure to apply this complex guidance correctly will
result in all changes in the fair value of the derivative being reported in
earnings, without regard to the offsetting changes in the fair value of the
hedged item.

In
evaluating whether a particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, we
test effectiveness at inception and each reporting period thereafter by
determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative offset, within a
specified range, changes in the fair value of the hedged item. If fair value
changes fail this test, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that
relationship prospectively. Fair values of both the derivative instrument and
the hedged item are calculated using internal valuation models incorporating
market-based assumptions, subject to third-party confirmation.

At
December 31, 2009, derivative assets and liabilities were $8.0 billion and
$3.7 billion, respectively. Further information about our use of derivatives is
provided in Notes 1, 9, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Fair Value Measurements.

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value every reporting period include
investments in debt and equity securities and derivatives. Assets that are not
measured at fair value every reporting period but that are subject to fair value
measurements in certain circumstances include loans and long-lived assets that
have been reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that
have been reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and
equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair
value when they are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in
formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a
noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value
when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair
value unless further impairment occurs.

A fair
value measurement is determined as the price we would receive to sell an asset
or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the
identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing
assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data,
internal information that is consistent with what market participants would use
in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. The
determination of fair value often involves significant judgments about
assumptions such as determining an appropriate discount rate that factors in
both risk and liquidity premiums, identifying the similarities and differences
in market transactions, weighting those differences accordingly and then making
the appropriate adjustments to those market transactions to reflect the risks
specific to our asset being valued. Further information on fair value
measurements is provided in Notes 1, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

Other loss contingencies

are
recorded as liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Disclosure is required when
there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed
the recorded provision. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time
periods. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts that
often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as
regulators.

Further
information is provided in Notes 13 and 24 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

(71)

Other
Information

New
Accounting Standards

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, which amended ASC 860,

Transfers and Servicing

, and
ASC 810,

Consolidation

,
respectively, and are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs.

Among
other changes, the amendments to ASC 810 replace the existing quantitative
approach for identifying the party that should consolidate a VIE, which was
based on exposure to a majority of the risks and rewards, with a qualitative
approach, based on determination of which party has the power to direct the most
economically significant activities of the entity. The revised guidance will
sometimes change the composition of entities that meet the definition of a VIE
and the determination about which party should consolidate a VIE, as well as
requiring the latter to be evaluated continuously.

We have
evaluated all entities that fall within the scope of the amended ASC 810 to
determine whether we will be required to consolidate or deconsolidate these
entities on January 1, 2010. In addition to the former QSPEs described above, we
will consolidate assets of VIEs related to direct investments in entities that
hold loans and fixed income securities, a media joint venture and a small number
of companies to which we have extended loans in the ordinary course of business
and have subsequently been subject to a troubled debt
restructuring.

Upon
adoption of the amendments on January 1, 2010, we will consolidate the assets
and liabilities of these entities at the amount they would have been reported in
our financial statements had we always consolidated them. We will also
deconsolidate certain entities where we do not meet the definition of the
primary beneficiary under the revised guidance, the effect of which will be
insignificant. The incremental effect of consolidation on total assets and
liabilities, net of our investment in these entities, will be an increase of
approximately $32 billion and $34 billion, respectively. There also will be a
net reduction of equity of approximately $2 billion, principally related to the
reversal of previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect
adjustment to retained earnings, which will be earned back over the life of the
assets.

The
assets of QSPEs that we will be required to consolidate will be approximately
$29 billion, net of our existing retained interests of approximately $9 billion,
and liabilities will be $31 billion at January 1, 2010. Significant assets of
the QSPEs will include net financing receivables and trade receivables of
approximately $39 billion and investment securities of approximately $1 billion.
Significant liabilities will include short-term and long-term borrowings of $19
billion each. The assets and liabilities of other VIEs we will consolidate will
be approximately $2 billion each.

The
amended guidance on ASC 860 also modifies existing derecognition criteria in a
manner that will significantly narrow the types of transactions that will
qualify as sales. The revised criteria will apply prospectively to transfers of
financial assets occurring after December 31, 2009.

On
September 23, 2009, the FASB issued amendments to existing standards for revenue
arrangements with multiple components. The amendments generally require the
allocation of consideration to separate components based on the relative selling
price of each component in a revenue arrangement. The amendments also require
certain software-enabled products to be accounted for under the general
accounting standards for multiple component arrangements as opposed to
accounting standards specifically applicable to software arrangements. The
amendments are effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or
materially modified after January 1, 2011. The financial statement impact of
adopting these amendments is expected to be insignificant to our financial
statements.

(72)

Supplemental
Information

Financial
Measures that Supplement Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

We
sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but
not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are
considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred, in various sections of this
Annual Report, to:

·

Industrial
      earnings, excluding NBCU

·

Cash
      generated by our Industrial
businesses

·

Average
      GE shareowners’ equity, excluding effects of discontinued
      operations

·

Ratio
      of debt to equity at GE Capital, net of cash and equivalents and with
      classification of hybrid debt as
equity

·

Capital
      Finance ending net investment (ENI), excluding the effects of currency
      exchange rates, at December 31, 2009 and

·

GE
      pre-tax earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from
      continuing operations, the corresponding effective tax rates and the
      reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to those effective tax
      rates for the three years ended December 31,

·

Delinquency
      rates on managed equipment financing loans and leases and managed consumer
      financing receivables for 2009, 2008 and

The
reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to
their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.

We have
provided the increase in 2009 segment profit excluding the earnings of our
financial services segment, Capital Finance, and our media business, NBC
Universal. We believe that this is a useful comparison because it provides
investors with information on the results of our industrial businesses without
the NBC Universal business, which is classified as a business held for sale at
December 31, 2009. We believe that this measure, considered along with the
corresponding GAAP measure, provides management and investors with additional
information for comparison to other industrial businesses.

(73)

We refer
to cash generated by our industrial businesses as "Industrial CFOA," which we
define as GE’s cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends
received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany
transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for
trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment
(including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT)
and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that
are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease
to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate
overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GE’s
operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends
are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses
and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial
services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be
comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and
financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the
provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our
financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial
statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our
measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful
measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate
operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial
businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the
reported GAAP CFOA measure.

(a)

Used
      for computing return on average GE shareowners’ equity and return on
      average total capital invested shown in the Selected Financial Data
      section in Part II, Item 6. “Selected Financial
  Data.”

(b)

On
      an annual basis, calculated using a five-point
  average.

Our ROTC
calculation excludes earnings (losses) of discontinued operations from the
numerator because U.S. GAAP requires us to display those earnings (losses) in
the Statement of Earnings. We exclude the cumulative effect of earnings (losses)
of discontinued operations from the denominator in our ROTC calculation (1) for
each of the periods for which related discontinued operations were presented,
and (2) for our average net investment in discontinued operations since July 1,
2005. Had we disposed of these operations before July 1, 2005, we would have
applied the proceeds to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital. However,
since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired by June 30, 2005, we have
assumed that we would have distributed the proceeds after that time to
shareowners through share repurchases, thus reducing average GE shareowners’
equity. Our calculation of average GE shareowners’ equity may not be directly
comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We believe
that it is a clearer way to measure the ongoing trend in return on total capital
for the continuing operations of our businesses given the extent that
discontinued operations have affected our reported results. We believe that this
results in a more relevant measure for management and investors to evaluate
performance of our continuing operations, on a consistent basis, and to evaluate
and compare the performance of our continuing operations with the ongoing
operations of other businesses and companies.

Definitions
indicating how the above-named ratios are calculated using average GE
shareowners’ equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, can be found
in the Glossary.

(74)

We have
provided the GE Capital ratio of debt to equity on a basis that reflects the use
of cash and equivalents to reduce debt, and with long-term debt due in 2066 and
2067 classified as equity. We believe that this is a useful comparison to a
GAAP-based ratio of debt to equity because cash balances may be used to reduce
debt and because this long-term debt has equity-like characteristics. The
usefulness of this supplemental measure may be limited, however, as the total
amount of cash and equivalents at any point in time may be different than the
amount that could practically be applied to reduce outstanding debt, and it may
not be advantageous or practical to replace certain long-term debt with equity.
In the first quarter of 2009, GE made a $9.5 billion payment to GECS (of which
$8.8 billion was further contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution
and share issuance). Despite these potential limitations, we believe that this
measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides
investors with additional information that may be more comparable to other
financial institutions and businesses.

We use
ENI to measure the size of our financial services business. We believe that this
measure is a better indicator of the capital (debt or equity) required to fund a
business as it adjusts for non-interest bearing current liabilities generated in
the normal course of business that do not require a capital outlay. We also
believe that by excluding the impact of GECS discontinued operations, GECS
headquarters items and the effects of currency exchange movements during the
year, we provide a more meaningful measure for our Capital Finance
segment.

(75)

We
believe that the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE
earnings before income taxes excluding the GECS net earnings from continuing
operations, as GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings.
Management believes that in addition to the Consolidated and GECS tax rates
shown in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report, this
supplemental measure provides investors with useful information as it presents
the GE effective tax rate that can be used in comparing the GE results to other
non-financial services businesses.

Delinquency
Rates on Certain Financing Receivables

Delinquency
rates on managed equipment financing loans and leases and managed consumer
financing receivables follow.

(a)

Not
      applicable.

Delinquency
rates on on-book and off-book equipment financing loans and leases increased
from December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, as a result
of continuing weakness in the global economic and credit environment. In
addition, delinquency rates on on-book equipment financing loans and leases
increased nine basis points from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, as a
result of the inclusion of the CitiCapital acquisition.

(76)

The
increase in on-book delinquencies for consumer financing receivables in the U.S.
from December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, primarily
reflects the continued rise in delinquencies across the U.S. credit card
receivables platforms. The increase in on-book delinquencies for consumer
financing receivables outside of the U.S. from December 31, 2008 and December
31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, reflects the effects of the declining U.K.
housing market. The increase in off-book delinquencies for consumer financing
receivables in the U.S. from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, primarily
reflects the rise in delinquencies across the U.S. credit card receivables
platform. The decrease in off-book delinquencies for consumer financing
receivables in the U.S. from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, reflected
the replacement of certain lower-credit quality receivables from a
securitization trust in 2009.

We
believe that delinquency rates on managed financing receivables provide a useful
perspective of our portfolio quality and are key indicators of financial
performance. We use this non-GAAP financial measure because it provides
information that enables management and investors to understand the underlying
operational performance and trends of certain financing receivables and
facilitates a comparison with the performance of our competitors. The same
underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both on-book and
off-book portfolios as the customer’s credit performance will affect both loans
retained on the Statement of Financial Position and securitized loans. We
believe that managed basis information is useful to management and investors,
enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans
reported on the Statement of Financial Position and our retained interests in
securitized loans.

(77)

Glossary

Backlog

Unfilled customer
orders for products and product services (12 months for product
services).

Borrowing

Financial liability
(short or long-term) that obligates us to repay cash or another financial asset
to another entity.

Borrowings as a percentage of total
capital invested

For GE, the sum of borrowings and mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, divided by the sum of borrowings, mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, noncontrolling interests and total shareowners’
equity.

Cash equivalents

Highly liquid
debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as
commercial paper. Typically included with cash for reporting purposes, unless
designated as available-for-sale and included with investment
securities.

Cash flow hedges

Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to protect ourselves against exposure to
variability in future cash flows. The exposure may be associated with an
existing asset or liability, or with a forecasted transaction. See
“Hedge.”

Commercial paper

Unsecured,
unregistered promise to repay borrowed funds in a specified period ranging from
overnight to 270 days.

Derivative instrument

A
financial instrument or contract with another party (counterparty) that is
designed to meet any of a variety of risk management objectives, including those
related to fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity
prices. Options, forwards and swaps are the most common derivative instruments
we employ. See “Hedge.”

Discontinued operations

Certain businesses we have sold or committed to sell within the next year and
therefore will no longer be part of our ongoing operations. The net earnings,
assets and liabilities, and cash flows of such businesses are separately
classified on our Statement of Earnings, Statement of Financial Position and
Statement of Cash Flows, respectively, for all periods presented.

Effective tax rate

Provision
for income taxes as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before
income taxes and accounting changes. Does not represent cash paid for income
taxes in the current accounting period. Also referred to as “actual tax rate” or
“tax rate.”

Ending Net Investment (ENI)

is
the total capital we have invested in the financial services business. It is the
sum of short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings and equity (excluding
noncontrolling interests) adjusted for unrealized gains and losses on investment
securities and hedging instruments. Alternatively, it is the amount of assets of
continuing operations less the amount of non-interest bearing
liabilities.

Equipment leased to others

Rental equipment we own that is available to rent and is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation.

Fair value hedge

Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to reduce the risk of changes in the fair
value of assets, liabilities or certain types of firm commitments. Changes in
the fair values of derivative instruments that are designated and effective as
fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, but are offset by corresponding
changes in the fair values of the hedged items. See “Hedge.”

Financing receivables

Investment in contractual loans and leases due from customers (not investment
securities).

(78)

Forward contract

Fixed price
contract for purchase or sale of a specified quantity of a commodity, security,
currency or other financial instrument with delivery and settlement at a
specified future date. Commonly used as a hedging tool. See
“Hedge.”

Goodwill

The premium paid for
acquisition of a business. Calculated as the purchase price less the fair value
of net assets acquired (net assets are identified tangible and intangible
assets, less liabilities assumed).

Guaranteed investment contracts
(GICs)

Deposit-type products that guarantee a minimum rate of return,
which may be fixed or floating.

Hedge

A technique designed to
eliminate risk. Often refers to the use of derivative financial instruments to
offset changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices,
although many business positions are “naturally hedged” – for example, funding a
U.S. fixed-rate investment with U.S. fixed-rate borrowings is a natural interest
rate hedge.

Intangible asset

A
non-financial asset lacking physical substance, such as goodwill, patents,
licenses, trademarks and customer relationships.

Interest rate swap

Agreement
under which two counterparties agree to exchange one type of interest rate cash
flow for another. In a typical arrangement, one party periodically will pay a
fixed amount of interest, in exchange for which that party will receive variable
payments computed using a published index. See “Hedge.”

Investment securities

Generally, an instrument that provides an ownership position in a corporation (a
stock), a creditor relationship with a corporation or governmental body (a
bond), rights to contractual cash flows backed by pools of financial assets or
rights to ownership such as those represented by options, subscription rights
and subscription warrants.

Managed receivables

Total
receivable amounts on which we continue to perform billing and collection
activities, including receivables that have been sold with and without credit
recourse and are no longer reported on our Statement of Financial
Position.

Match funding

A risk control
policy that provides funding for a particular financial asset having the same
currency, maturity and interest rate characteristics as that asset. Match
funding is executed directly, by issuing debt, or synthetically, through a
combination of debt and derivative financial instruments. For example, when we
lend at a fixed interest rate in the U.S., we can borrow those U.S. dollars
either at a fixed rate of interest or at a floating rate executed concurrently
with a pay-fixed interest rate swap. See “Hedge.”

Monetization

Sale of financial
assets to a third party for cash. For example, we sell certain loans, credit
card receivables and trade receivables to third-party financial buyers,
typically providing at least some credit protection and often agreeing to
provide collection and processing services for a fee. Monetization normally
results in gains on interest-bearing assets and losses on non-interest bearing
assets. See “Securitization” and “Variable Interest Entity.”

Noncontrolling interest

Portion of shareowner's equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable to GE.
In prior financial statements, this was labeled minority interest and was
presented outside of shareowners' equity.

Operating profit

GE earnings
from continuing operations before interest and other financial charges, income
taxes and effects of accounting changes.

Option

The right, not the
obligation, to execute a transaction at a designated price, generally involving
equity interests, interest rates, currencies or commodities. See
“Hedge.”

(79)

Product services

For purposes
of the financial statement display of sales and costs of sales in our Statement
of Earnings, “goods” is required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations to include all sales of tangible products, and “services” must
include all other sales, including broadcasting and other services activities.
In our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations we refer to sales
under product service agreements and sales of both goods (such as spare parts
and equipment upgrades) and related services (such as monitoring, maintenance
and repairs) as sales of “product services,” which is an important part of our
operations.

Product services agreements

Contractual commitments, with multiple-year terms, to provide specified services
for products in our Energy Infrastructure and Technology Infrastructure
installed base – for example, monitoring, maintenance, service and spare parts
for a gas turbine/generator set installed in a customer’s power
plant.

Productivity

The rate of
increased output for a given level of input, with both output and input measured
in constant currency.

Progress collections

Payments
received from customers as deposits before the associated work is performed or
product is delivered.

Qualifying SPEs (QSPEs)

These
entities are a specific type of Variable Interest Entity defined in ASC 860,

Transfers and
Servicing.

The activities of QSPEs are significantly limited and entirely
specified in the legal documents that established the entity. There also are
significant limitations on the types of assets and derivative instruments they
may hold and the types and extent of activities and decision-making they may
engage in.

Retained interest

A portion of
a transferred financial asset retained by the transferor that provides rights to
receive portions of the cash inflows from that asset.

Return on average GE shareowners’
equity

Earnings from continuing operations before accounting changes
divided by average GE shareowners’ equity, excluding effects of discontinued
operations (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average
GE shareowners’ equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, as of the
end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, is
described in the Supplemental Information section.

Return on average total capital
invested

For GE, earnings from continuing operations before accounting
changes plus the sum of after-tax interest and other financial charges and
noncontrolling interests, divided by the sum of the averages of total
shareowners’ equity (excluding effects of discontinued operations), borrowings,
mandatorily redeemable preferred stock and noncontrolling interests (on an
annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average total shareowners’
equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations as of the end of each of
the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, is described in the
Supplemental Information section.

Securitization

A process
whereby loans or other receivables are packaged, underwritten and sold to
investors. In a typical transaction, assets are sold to a special purpose
entity, which purchases the assets with cash raised through issuance of
beneficial interests (usually debt instruments) to third-party investors.
Whether or not credit risk associated with the securitized assets is retained by
the seller depends on the structure of the securitization. See “Monetization”
and “Variable interest entity.”

Subprime

For purposes of
Consumer related discussion, subprime includes consumer finance products like
mortgage, auto, cards, sales finance and personal loans to U.S. and global
borrowers whose credit score implies a higher probability of default based upon
GE Capital's proprietary scoring models and definitions, which add various
qualitative and quantitative factors to a base credit score such as a FICO score
or global bureau score. Although, FICO and global bureau credit scores are a
widely accepted rating of individual consumer creditworthiness, the internally
modeled scores are more reflective of the behavior and default risks in the
portfolio compared to stand-alone generic bureau scores.

(80)

Turnover

Broadly based on the
number of times that working capital is replaced during a year. Current
receivables turnover is total sales divided by the five-point average balance of
GE current receivables. Inventory turnover is total sales divided by a
five-point average balance of inventories. See “Working capital.”

Unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expenses

Claims reserves for events that have occurred, including both
reported and incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) reserves, and the expenses of
settling such claims.

Variable interest entity

Entity defined by ASC 810,

Consolidation

, and that must
be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. A variable interest entity has one
or both of the following characteristics: (1) its equity at risk is not
sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) as a group, the equity
investors lack one or more of the following characteristics: (a) direct or
indirect ability to make decisions, (b) obligation to absorb expected losses, or
(c) right to receive expected residual returns.

Working capital

Represents GE
current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress
collections.

Item
7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk.

Information
about our global risk management can be found in the Operations – Global Risk
Management and Financial Resources and Liquidity – Exchange Rate and Interest
Rate Risks sections in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Item
8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Management’s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. With our participation, an evaluation of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting was conducted
as of December 31, 2009, based on the framework and criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

Based on
this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our
internal control over financial reporting. Their report follows.

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt

Keith
      S. Sherin

Chairman
      of the Board and

Chief
      Executive Officer

February
      19, 2010

Vice
      Chairman and

Chief
      Financial Officer

(81)

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To
Shareowners and Board of Directors

of
General Electric Company:

We have
audited the accompanying statement of financial position of General Electric
Company and consolidated affiliates (“GE”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners’ equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. We
also have audited GE’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control- Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (“COSO”). GE management is responsible for these
consolidated financial state­ments, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on GE’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reason­able assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluat­ing the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reason­able assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 84, 86, 87,
89, 91-167 and the Summary of Operating Segments table on page 35 present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of GE as of December
31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, GE
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

issued by COSO.

(82)

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, GE, in 2009,
changed its method of accounting for impairment of debt securities, business
combinations and noncontrolling interests; in 2008, changed its method of
accounting for fair value measurements and adopted the fair value option for
certain financial assets and financial liabilities; and, in 2007, changed its
methods of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and for a change or
projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated
by leveraged lease transactions.

Our
audits of GE’s consolidated financial statements were made for the purpose of
forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
The accompanying consolidating infor­mation appearing on pages 85, 88 and 90
is presented for purposes of additional analysis of the consolidated financial
statements rather than to present the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of the individual entities. The consolidating information has
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the
con­solidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in
all material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole.

/s/ KPMG
LLP

KPMG LLP

Stamford,
Connecticut

February
19, 2010

(83)

See Note 3 for
other-than-temporary impairment amounts.

See
accompanying notes.

(84)

(a)

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis.

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for "GE" and
      "GECS. " Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
      "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates" columns on the
      prior page.

(85)

On January 1, 2009, we adopted an
amendment to ASC 810,

Consolidation

, that requires
certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment
requires us to classify noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as
"minority interest") as part of shareowners' equity.

(a)

We
      adopted amendments to ASC 320,

Investments - Debt and Equity
      Securities

, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase
      retained earnings as of April 1, 2009. See Note
  15.

(b)

See
      Note 15 for an explanation of the change in noncontrolling interests for
      2009.

See
accompanying notes.

(86)

(a)

The
      sum of accumulated other comprehensive income - net was $(15,265) million
      and $(21,853) million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(b)

Included
      accumulated other comprehensive income - net attributable to
      noncontrolling interests of $(188) million and $(194) million at December
      31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

See
      accompanying notes.

(87)

(a)

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis.

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for “GE” and
      “GECS.” Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
      “General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates” columns on the
      prior page.

(88)

See
accompanying notes.

(89)

(a)

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis.

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for “GE” and
      “GECS.” Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
      “General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates” columns on the
      prior page and are discussed in Note
26.

(90)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

NOTE
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Accounting
Principles

Our
financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP).

Consolidation

Our
financial statements consolidate all of our affiliates – entities that we
control, most often because we hold a majority voting interest. Associated
companies are entities that we do not control but over which we have significant
influence, most often because we hold a voting interest of 20% to 50%. Results
of associated companies are presented on a one-line basis. Investments in and
advances to associated companies are presented on a one-line basis in the
caption “All other assets” in our Statement of Financial Position, net of
allowance for losses that represents our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in such assets.

Financial
Statement Presentation

We have
reclassified certain prior-year amounts to conform to the current-year’s
presentation.

Financial
data and related measurements are presented in the following
categories:

GE

– This represents the
adding together of all affiliates other than General Electric Capital Services,
Inc. (GECS), whose operations are presented on a one-line basis.

GECS

– This affiliate owns all
of the common stock of General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital). GE
Capital and its respective affiliates are consolidated in the accompanying GECS
columns and constitute the majority of its business.

Consolidated

– This represents
the adding together of GE and GECS, giving effect to the elimination of
transactions between GE and GECS.

Operating Segments

– These
comprise our five businesses, focused on the broad markets they serve: Energy
Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal (NBCU), Capital Finance
and Consumer & Industrial. Prior-period information has been reclassified to
be consistent with the current organization.

Unless
otherwise indicated, information in these notes to consolidated financial
statements relates to continuing operations. Certain of our operations have been
presented as discontinued. See Note 2.

The
effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements of non-U.S.
affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included in
shareowners’ equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end
exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for
the respective periods.

Preparing
financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates
based on assumptions about current, and for some estimates future, economic and
market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, the real estate
market, etc.), which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our
financial statements. Although our current estimates contemplate current
conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, as appropriate, it is
reasonably possible that in 2010 actual conditions could be worse than
anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of
operations and financial position. Among other effects, such changes could
result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill, intangibles and
long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables, establishment of
valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax
liabilities.

(91)

Sales of Goods and Services

We
record all sales of goods and services only when a firm sales agreement is in
place, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered and collectibility
of the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured.

Arrangements
for the sale of goods and services sometimes include multiple components. Most
of our multiple component arrangements involve the sale of goods and services in
the Technology Infrastructure segment. Our arrangements with multiple components
usually involve future service deliverables such as installation, training or
the future delivery of ancillary equipment. In such agreements, the amount
assigned to each component is based on the total price and the undelivered
component’s objectively determined fair value, determined from sources such as
the separate selling price for that or a similar component or from competitor
prices for similar components. If fair value of an undelivered component cannot
be satisfactorily determined, we defer revenue until all multiple components are
delivered.

Except
for goods sold under long-term agreements, we recognize sales of goods under the
provisions of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting
Bulletin (SAB) 104,

Revenue
Recognition

. We often sell consumer products, home videos and computer
hardware and software products with a right of return. We use our accumulated
experience to estimate and provide for such returns when we record the sale. In
situations where arrangements include customer acceptance provisions based on
seller or customer-specified objective criteria, we recognize revenue when
formal acceptance occurs or we have reliably demonstrated that all specified
acceptance criteria have been met. In arrangements where we provide goods for
trial and evaluation purposes, we only recognize revenue after customer
acceptance occurs. Unless otherwise noted, we do not provide for anticipated
losses before we record sales.

Certain
of our sales of goods and services involve inconsequential or perfunctory
performance obligations. These obligations can include non-essential
installation or training, and in some instances provision of product manuals and
limited technical product support. When the only remaining undelivered
performance obligation under an arrangement is inconsequential or perfunctory,
we recognize revenue on the total contract and provide for the cost of the
unperformed obligation.

We
recognize revenue on agreements for sales of goods and services under power
generation unit and uprate contracts; nuclear fuel assemblies; larger oil
drilling equipment projects; aeroderivative unit contracts; military development
contracts; and long-term construction projects, using long-term construction and
production contract accounting. We estimate total long-term contract revenue net
of price concessions as well as total contract costs. For goods sold under power
generation unit and uprate contracts, nuclear fuel assemblies, aeroderivative
unit contracts and military development contracts, we recognize sales as we
complete major contract-specified deliverables, most often when customers
receive title to the goods or accept the services as performed. For larger oil
drilling equipment projects and long-term construction projects, we recognize
sales based on our progress towards contract completion measured by actual costs
incurred in relation to our estimate of total expected costs. We measure
long-term contract revenues by applying our contract-specific estimated margin
rates to incurred costs. We routinely update our estimates of future costs for
agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in
current operations. We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on these
agreements when that loss is probable.

(92)

We
recognize revenue upon delivery for sales of aircraft engines, military
propulsion equipment and related spare parts not sold under long-term product
services agreements. Delivery of commercial engines, non-U.S. military equipment
and all related spare parts occurs on shipment; delivery of military propulsion
equipment sold to the U.S. Government or agencies thereof occurs upon receipt of
a Material Inspection and Receiving Report, DD Form 250 or Memorandum of
Shipment. Commercial aircraft engines are complex aerospace equipment
manufactured to customer order under a variety of sometimes-complex, long-term
agreements. We measure sales of commercial aircraft engines by applying our
contract-specific estimated margin rates to incurred costs. We routinely update
our estimates of future costs for commercial aircraft engine agreements in
process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current
operations. We measure revenue for military propulsion equipment and spare parts
not subject to long-term product services agreements based on the specific
contract on a specifically-measured output basis. We provide for any loss that
we expect to incur on these agreements when that loss is probable; consistent
with industry practice, for commercial aircraft engines, we make such provision
only if such losses are not recoverable from future highly probable sales of
spare parts for those engines.

We sell
product services under long-term product maintenance or extended warranty
agreements in our Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments,
principally in Aviation, Energy and Transportation, where costs of performing
services are incurred on other than a straight-line basis. We also sell product
services in Healthcare, where such costs generally are expected to be on a
straight-line basis. For the Aviation, Energy and Transportation agreements, we
recognize related sales based on the extent of our progress towards completion
measured by actual costs incurred in relation to total expected costs. We
routinely update our estimates of future costs for agreements in process and
report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current operations. For the
Healthcare agreements, we recognize revenues on a straight-line basis and
expense related costs as incurred. We provide for any loss that we expect to
incur on any of these agreements when that loss is probable.

NBC
Universal records broadcast and cable television and Internet advertising sales
when advertisements are aired, net of provision for any viewer shortfalls (make
goods). We record sales from theatrical distribution of films as the films are
exhibited; sales of home videos, net of a return provision, when the videos are
delivered to and available for sale by retailers; fees from cable/satellite
operators when services are provided; and licensing of film and television
programming when we make the material available for airing.

GECS Revenues from Services (Earned Income)

We use
the interest method to recognize income on all loans. Interest on loans includes
origination, commitment and other non-refundable fees related to funding
(recorded in earned income on the interest method). We stop accruing interest at
the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or
the account becomes 90 days past due. We recognize interest income on nonearning
loans either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions
warrant. We resume accruing interest on nonearning, non-restructured commercial
loans only when (a) payments are brought current according to the loan’s
original terms and (b) future payments are reasonably assured. When we agree to
restructured terms with the borrower, we resume accruing interest only when
reasonably assured that we will recover full contractual payments, and such
loans pass underwriting reviews equivalent to those applied to new loans. We
resume accruing interest on nonearning consumer loans when the customer’s
account is less than 90 days past due.

We
recognize financing lease income on the interest method to produce a level yield
on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values are based
upon management's best estimates of the value of the leased asset at the end of
the lease term. We use various sources of data in determining this estimate,
including information obtained from third parties, which is adjusted for the
attributes of the specific asset under lease. Guarantees of residual values by
unrelated third parties are considered part of minimum lease payments.
Significant assumptions we use in estimating residual values include estimated
net cash flows over the remaining lease term, anticipated results of future
remarketing, and estimated future component part and scrap metal prices,
discounted at an appropriate rate.

We
recognize operating lease income on a straight-line basis over the terms of
underlying leases.

(93)

Fees
include commitment fees related to loans that we do not expect to fund and
line-of-credit fees. We record these fees in earned income on a straight-line
basis over the period to which they relate. We record syndication fees in earned
income at the time related services are performed, unless significant
contingencies exist.

Depreciation and Amortization

The cost
of GE manufacturing plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated
economic life. U.S. assets are depreciated using an accelerated method based on
a sum-of-the-years digits formula; non-U.S. assets are generally depreciated on
a straight-line basis.

The cost
of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is depreciated on a
straight-line basis to estimated residual value over the lease term or over the
estimated economic life of the equipment.

The cost
of GECS acquired real estate investments is depreciated on a straight-line basis
to the estimated salvage value over the expected useful life or the estimated
proceeds upon sale of the investment at the end of the expected holding period
if that approach produces a higher measure of depreciation expense.

The cost
of individually significant customer relationships is amortized in proportion to
estimated total related sales; cost of other intangible assets is generally
amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated economic life. We
review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
See Notes 7 and 8.

NBC Universal Film and Television Costs

We defer
film and television production costs, including direct costs, production
overhead, development costs and interest. We do not defer costs of exploitation,
which principally comprise costs of film and television program marketing and
distribution. We amortize deferred film and television production costs, as well
as associated participation and residual costs, on an individual production
basis using the ratio of the current period’s gross revenues to estimated total
remaining gross revenues from all sources; we state such costs at the lower of
amortized cost or fair value. Estimates of total revenues and costs are based on
anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and historical results for
similar products. We defer the costs of acquired broadcast material, including
rights to material for use on NBC Universal’s broadcast and cable/satellite
television networks, at the earlier of acquisition or when the license period
begins and the material is available for use. We amortize acquired broadcast
material and rights when we broadcast the associated programs; we state such
costs at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.

Losses on Financing Receivables

Our
allowance for losses on financing receivables represents our best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Our method of calculating estimated
losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related
receivables. Write-offs are deducted from the allowance for losses and
subsequent recoveries are added. Impaired financing receivables are written down
to the extent that we judge principal to be uncollectible.

Our
portfolio consists entirely of homogenous consumer loans and of commercial loans
and leases. The underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use to
provide for losses are continually updated to reflect our view of current
conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and
provision for losses. It is possible to experience credit losses that are
different from our current estimates.

Our
consumer loan portfolio consists of smaller balance, homogenous loans including
card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases and residential
mortgages. We collectively evaluate each portfolio for impairment quarterly. The
allowance for losses on these receivables is established through a process that
estimates the probable losses inherent in the portfolio based upon statistical
analyses of portfolio data. These analyses include migration analysis, in which
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current
aging of the portfolio, together with other analyses that reflect current trends
and conditions. We also consider overall portfolio indicators including
nonearning loans, trends in loan volume and lending terms, credit policies and
other observable environmental factors such as unemployment rates and home price
indices.

(94)

We write
off unsecured closed-end installment loans at 120 days contractually past due
and unsecured open-ended revolving loans at 180 days contractually past due. We
write down consumer loans secured by collateral other than residential real
estate when such loans are 120 days past due. Consumer loans secured by
residential real estate (both revolving and closed-end loans) are written down
to the fair value of collateral, less costs to sell, no later than when they
become 360 days past due. Unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy are written off
within 60 days of notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or within
contractual write-off periods, whichever occurs earlier.

Our
commercial loan and lease portfolio consists of a variety of loans and leases,
including both larger balance, non-homogenous loans and leases and smaller
balance homogenous commercial and equipment loans and leases. Losses on such
loans and leases are recorded when probable and estimable. We routinely evaluate
our entire portfolio for potential specific credit or collection issues that
might indicate an impairment. For larger balance, non-homogenous loans and
leases, this survey first considers the financial status, payment history,
collateral value, industry conditions and guarantor support related to specific
customers. Any delinquencies or bankruptcies are indications of potential
impairment requiring further assessment of collectibility. We routinely receive
financial as well as rating agency reports on our customers, and we elevate for
further attention those customers whose operations we judge to be marginal or
deteriorating. We also elevate customers for further attention when we observe a
decline in collateral values for asset-based loans. While collateral values are
not always available, when we observe such a decline, we evaluate relevant
markets to assess recovery alternatives – for example, for real estate loans,
relevant markets are local; for commercial aircraft loans, relevant markets are
global. We provide allowances based on our evaluation of all available
information, including expected future cash flows, fair value of collateral, net
of expected disposal costs, and the secondary market value of the financing
receivables. After providing for specific incurred losses, we then determine an
allowance for losses that have been incurred in the balance of the portfolio but
cannot yet be identified to a specific loan or lease. This estimate is based on
historical and projected default rates and loss severity, and it is prepared by
each respective line of business.

The
remainder of our commercial loans and leases are portfolios of smaller balance
homogenous commercial and equipment positions that we evaluate collectively by
portfolio for impairment based upon various statistical analyses considering
historical losses and aging, as well as our view on current market and economic
conditions.

Experience
is not available for new products; therefore, while we are developing that
experience, we set loss allowances based on our experience with the most closely
analogous products in our portfolio.

"Impaired"
loans are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for which it is
probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to
the original contractual terms of the loan agreement. Troubled debt
restructurings are those loans in which we have granted a concession to a
borrower experiencing financial difficulties where we do not receive adequate
compensation. Such loans are classified as impaired, and are individually
reviewed for specific reserves.

When we
repossess collateral in satisfaction of a loan, we write down the receivable
against the allowance for losses. Repossessed collateral is included in the
caption “All other assets” in the Statement of Financial Position and carried at
the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell.

Partial Sales of Business Interests

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted amendments to Accounting Standards Codification
(ASC) 810,

Consolidation

, which requires
that gains or losses on sales of affiliate shares where we retain control be
recorded in equity. Gains or losses on sales that result in our loss of control
are recorded in earnings along with remeasurement gains or losses on any
investments in the entity that we retained. Prior to January 1, 2009, we
recorded gains or losses on sales of their own shares by affiliates except when
realization of gains was not reasonably assured, in which case we recorded the
results in shareowners’ equity. We recorded gains or losses on sales of
interests in commercial and military engine and aeroderivative equipment
programs.

(95)

Cash and Equivalents

Debt
securities and money market instruments with original maturities of three months
or less are included in cash equivalents unless designated as available-for-sale
and classified as investment securities.

Investment Securities

We
report investments in debt and marketable equity securities, and certain other
equity securities, at fair value. See Note 21 for further information on fair
value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities
are included in shareowners’ equity, net of applicable taxes and other
adjustments. We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended ASC 320,

Investments – Debt and Equity
Securities.

This amendment modified the existing model for recognition
and measurement of impairment for debt securities. The two principal changes to
the impairment model for securities are as follows:

·

Recognition
      of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for debt securities is
      required if any of these conditions are met: (1) we do not expect to
      recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, (2) we intend to
      sell the security or (3) it is more likely than not that we will be
      required to sell the security before we recover its amortized cost
      basis.

·

If
      the first condition above is met, but we do not intend to sell and it is
      not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security
      before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we are required to record the
      difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and its recoverable
      amount in earnings and the difference between the security’s recoverable
      amount and fair value in other comprehensive income. If either the second
      or third criterion is met, then we are required to recognize the entire
      difference between the security’s amortized cost basis and its fair value
      in earnings.

If we do
not intend to sell the security or it is not more likely than not that we will
be required to sell the security before recovery of our amortized cost, we
evaluate other qualitative criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists,
such as the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including
whether the issuer is in compliance with the terms and covenants of the
security. Quantitative criteria include determining whether there has been an
adverse change in expected future cash flows.

Realized
gains and losses are accounted for on the specific identification method.
Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities classified as trading and
certain retained interests are included in earnings.

Inventories

All
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable values. Cost for a
significant portion of GE U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out
(LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is determined on a first-in,
first-out (FIFO) basis. LIFO was used for 39% and 40% of GE inventories at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. GECS inventories consist of finished
products held for sale; cost is determined on a FIFO basis.

Intangible Assets

We do
not amortize goodwill, but test it at least annually for impairment at the
reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business
one level below that operating segment (the component level) if discrete
financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management.
However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have
similar economic characteristics. We recognize an impairment charge if the
carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and the carrying
amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that
goodwill. We use discounted cash flows to establish fair values. When available
and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate
discounted cash flow results. When all or a portion of a reporting unit is
disposed of, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition based on
the relative fair values of the business disposed of and the portion of the
reporting unit that will be retained.

(96)

We
amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives unless
such lives are deemed indefinite. The cost of intangible assets is generally
amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated economic life,
except that individually significant customer-related intangible assets are
amortized in relation to total related sales. Amortizable intangible assets are
tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written
down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and
written down to fair value as required.

GECS Investment Contracts, Insurance Liabilities and Insurance
Annuity Benefits

Certain
entities, which we consolidate, provide guaranteed investment contracts to
states, municipalities and municipal authorities.

Our
insurance activities also include providing insurance and reinsurance for life
and health risks and providing certain annuity products. Three product groups
are provided: traditional insurance contracts, investment contracts and
universal life insurance contracts. Insurance contracts are contracts with
significant mortality and/or morbidity risks, while investment contracts are
contracts without such risks. Universal life insurance contracts are a
particular type of long-duration insurance contract whose terms are not fixed
and guaranteed.

For
short-duration insurance contracts, including accident and health insurance, we
report premiums as earned income over the terms of the related agreements,
generally on a pro-rata basis. For traditional long-duration insurance contracts
including term, whole life and annuities payable for the life of the annuitant,
we report premiums as earned income when due.

Premiums
received on investment contracts (including annuities without significant
mortality risk) and universal life contracts are not reported as revenues but
rather as deposit liabilities. We recognize revenues for charges and assessments
on these contracts, mostly for mortality, contract initiation, administration
and surrender. Amounts credited to policyholder accounts are charged to
expense.

Liabilities
for traditional long-duration insurance contracts represent the present value of
such benefits less the present value of future net premiums based on mortality,
morbidity, interest and other assumptions at the time the policies were issued
or acquired. Liabilities for investment contracts and universal life policies
equal the account value, that is, the amount that accrues to the benefit of the
contract or policyholder including credited interest and assessments through the
financial statement date.

Liabilities
for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses represent our best estimate of
the ultimate obligations for reported and incurred-but-not-reported claims and
the related estimated claim settlement expenses. Liabilities for unpaid claims
and claims adjustment expenses are continually reviewed and adjusted through
current operations.

Fair
Value Measurements

We
adopted ASC 820 in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we adopted it for all
financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value
on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.

For
financial assets and liabilities fair valued on a recurring basis, fair value is
the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. In the
absence of active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such
measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and,
in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what
market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the
measurement date.

Observable
inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable
inputs reflect our market assumptions. Preference is given to observable inputs.
These two types of inputs create the following fair value
hierarchy:

Level
      1 –

Quoted
      prices for identical instruments in active
  markets.

(97)

Level
      2 –

Quoted
      prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for
      identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and
      model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant
      value drivers are observable.

Level
      3 –

Significant
      inputs to the valuation model are
unobservable.

We
maintain policies and procedures to value instruments using the best and most
relevant data available. In addition, we have risk management teams that review
valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments.
Further, in other instances, we retain independent pricing vendors to assist in
valuing certain instruments.

The
following section describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure
different financial instruments at fair value on a recurring basis.

Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.

When available, we use quoted market prices to determine the
fair value of investment securities, and they are included in Level 1. Level 1
securities primarily include publicly-traded equity securities.

When
quoted market prices are unobservable, we obtain pricing information from an
independent pricing vendor. The pricing vendor uses various pricing models for
each asset class that are consistent with what other market participants would
use. The inputs and assumptions to the model of the pricing vendor are derived
from market observable sources including: benchmark yields, reported trades,
broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and
other market-related data. Since many fixed income securities do not trade on a
daily basis, the methodology of the pricing vendor uses available information as
applicable such as benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector
groupings, and matrix pricing. The pricing vendor considers available market
observable inputs in determining the evaluation for a security. Thus, certain
securities may not be priced using quoted prices, but rather determined from
market observable information. These investments are included in Level 2 and
primarily comprise our portfolio of corporate fixed income, and government,
mortgage and asset-backed securities. In infrequent circumstances, our pricing
vendors may provide us with valuations that are based on significant
unobservable inputs, and in those circumstances we classify the investment
securities in Level 3.

Annually,
we conduct reviews of our primary pricing vendor to validate that the inputs
used in that vendor’s pricing process are deemed to be market observable as
defined in the standard. While we were not provided access to proprietary models
of the vendor, our reviews have included on-site walk-throughs of the pricing
process, methodologies and control procedures for each asset class and level for
which prices are provided. Our review also included an examination of the
underlying inputs and assumptions for a sample of individual securities across
asset classes, credit rating levels and various durations, a process we continue
to perform for each reporting period. In addition, the pricing vendor has an
established challenge process in place for all security valuations, which
facilitates identification and resolution of potentially erroneous prices. We
believe that the prices received from our pricing vendor are representative of
prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit
prices) and are classified appropriately in the hierarchy.

We use
non-binding broker quotes as our primary basis for valuation when there is
limited, or no, relevant market activity for a specific instrument or for other
instruments that share similar characteristics. We have not adjusted the prices
we have obtained. Investment securities priced using non-binding broker quotes
are included in Level 3. As is the case with our primary pricing vendor,
third-party brokers do not provide access to their proprietary valuation models,
inputs and assumptions. Accordingly, our risk management personnel conduct
internal reviews of pricing for all such investment securities quarterly to
ensure reasonableness of valuations used in our financial statements. These
reviews are designed to identify prices that appear stale, those that have
changed significantly from prior valuations, and other anomalies that may
indicate that a price may not be accurate. Based on the information available,
we believe that the fair values provided by the brokers are representative of
prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit
prices).

(98)

Retained
interests in securitizations are valued using a discounted cash flow model that
considers the underlying structure of the securitization and estimated net
credit exposure, prepayment assumptions, discount rates and expected
life.

Derivatives.

We use closing
prices for derivatives included in Level 1, which are traded either on exchanges
or liquid over-the-counter markets.

The
majority of our derivatives are valued using internal models. The models
maximize the use of market observable inputs including interest rate curves and
both forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Derivative assets
and liabilities included in Level 2 primarily represent interest rate swaps,
cross-currency swaps and foreign currency and commodity forward and option
contracts.

Derivative
assets and liabilities included in Level 3 primarily represent interest rate
products that contain embedded optionality or prepayment features.

Non-Recurring Fair Value
Measurements

. Certain assets are measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis. These assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing
basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances.
These assets can include loans and long-lived assets that have been reduced to
fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and equity method
investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they
are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly
consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a
noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value
when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair
value unless further impairment occurs.

The
following describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure financial and
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis
and for assets within our pension plans and retiree benefit plans at each
reporting period, as applicable.

Loans

. When available, we use
observable market data, including pricing on recent closed market transactions,
to value loans which are included in Level 2. When this data is unobservable, we
use valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for
inherent credit risk, and such loans are included in Level 3. When appropriate,
loans are valued using collateral values as a practical expedient.

Cost and Equity Method
Investments

. Cost and equity method investments are valued using market
observable data such as quoted prices when available. When market observable
data is unavailable, investments are valued using a discounted cash flow model,
comparative market multiples or a combination of both approaches as appropriate.
These investments are generally included in Level 3.

Investments
in private equity, real estate and collective funds are valued using net asset
values. The net asset values are determined based on the fair values of the
underlying investments in the funds. Investments in private equity and real
estate funds are generally included in Level 3 because they are not redeemable
at the measurement date. Investments in collective funds are included in Level
2.

Long-lived Assets

. Long-lived
assets, including aircraft and real estate, are valued using the best
information available, including quoted market prices or market prices for
similar assets when available or internal cash flow estimates discounted at an
appropriate interest rate or independent appraisals, as appropriate. For real
estate, cash flow estimates are based on current market estimates that reflect
current and projected lease profiles and available industry information about
expected trends in rental, occupancy and capitalization rates. These investments
are generally included in Level 3.

(99)

Investments in Subsidiaries and
Formerly Consolidated Subsidiaries

. Upon a change in control that results
in either consolidation or deconsolidation of a subsidiary, the fair value
measurement of our previous equity investment or retained noncontrolling stake
in the former subsidiary, respectively, are valued using an income approach, a
market approach, or a combination of both approaches as appropriate. In applying
these methodologies, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating
results, future business plans, economic projections, market observable pricing
multiples of similar businesses and comparable transactions, and possible
control premium. These investments are included in Level 3.

Accounting Changes

The FASB
has made the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) effective for financial
statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15,
2009. The ASC combines all previously issued authoritative GAAP into one
codified set of guidance organized by subject area. In these financial
statements, references to previously issued accounting standards have been
replaced with the relevant ASC references. Subsequent revisions to GAAP by the
FASB will be incorporated into the ASC through issuance of Accounting Standards
Updates (ASU).

We
adopted ASC 820,

Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures

, in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we
adopted it for all financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted
for at fair value on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
This guidance establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands
related disclosures. See Note 21.

Effective
January 1, 2008, we adopted ASC 825,

Financial Instruments

. Upon
adoption, we elected to report $172 million of commercial mortgage loans at fair
value in order to recognize them on the same accounting basis (measured at fair
value through earnings) as the derivatives economically hedging these loans. See
Note 21.

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 805,

Business Combinations

. This
amendment significantly changed the accounting for business acquisitions both
during the period of the acquisition and in subsequent periods. Among the more
significant changes in the accounting for acquisitions are the
following:

·

Acquired
      in-process research and development (IPR&D) is accounted for as an
      asset, with the cost recognized as the research and development is
      realized or abandoned. IPR&D was previously expensed at the time of
      the acquisition.

·

Contingent
      consideration is recorded at fair value as an element of purchase price
      with subsequent adjustments recognized in operations. Contingent
      consideration was previously accounted for as a subsequent adjustment of
      purchase price.

·

Subsequent
      decreases in valuation allowances on acquired deferred tax assets are
      recognized in operations after the measurement period. Such changes were
      previously considered to be subsequent changes in consideration and were
      recorded as decreases in goodwill.

·

Transaction
      costs are expensed. These costs were previously treated as costs of the
      acquisition.

·

Upon
      gaining control of an entity in which an equity method or cost basis
      investment was held, the carrying value of that investment is adjusted to
      fair value with the related gain or loss recorded in earnings. Previously,
      this fair value adjustment would not have been
  made.

In April
2009, the FASB amended ASC 805 and changed the previous accounting for assets
and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. We adopted
this amendment retrospectively effective January 1, 2009. The amendment requires
pre-acquisition contingencies to be recognized at fair value, if fair value can
be determined or reasonably estimated during the measurement period. If fair
value cannot be determined or reasonably estimated, the standard requires
measurement based on the recognition and measurement criteria of ASC 450,

Contingencies

.

(100)

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 810, which requires us to make
certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment
requires us to classify earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
(previously referred to as “minority interest”) as part of consolidated net
earnings ($216 million and $641 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively) and to
include the accumulated amount of noncontrolling interests as part of
shareowners' equity ($7,845 million and $8,947 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively). The net earnings amounts we have previously reported are
now presented as "Net earnings attributable to the Company" and, as required,
earnings per share continues to reflect amounts attributable only to the
Company. Similarly, in our presentation of shareowners’ equity, we distinguish
between equity amounts attributable to GE shareowners and amounts attributable
to the noncontrolling interests – previously classified as minority interest
outside of shareowners’ equity. Beginning January 1, 2009, dividends to
noncontrolling interests ($548 million in 2009) are classified as financing cash
flows. In addition to these financial reporting changes, this guidance provides
for significant changes in accounting related to noncontrolling interests;
specifically, increases and decreases in our controlling financial interests in
consolidated subsidiaries will be reported in equity similar to treasury stock
transactions. If a change in ownership of a consolidated subsidiary results in
loss of control and deconsolidation, any retained ownership interests are
remeasured with the gain or loss reported in net earnings.

Effective
January 1, 2009, we adopted ASC 808,

Collaborative Arrangements

,
which requires gross basis presentation of revenues and expenses for principal
participants in collaborative arrangements. Our Technology Infrastructure and
Energy Infrastructure segments enter into collaborative arrangements with
manufacturers and suppliers of components used to build and maintain certain
engines, aero-derivatives, and turbines, under which GE and these participants
share in risks and rewards of these product programs. Adoption of the standard
had no effect as our historical presentation had been consistent with the new
requirements.

We
adopted amendments to ASC 320,

Investments – Debt and Equity
Securities

, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase
retained earnings as of April 1, 2009, of $62 million.

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted amendments to ASC 740,

Income Taxes

. Among other
things, the amendments require application of a “more likely than not” threshold
to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions and require recalculation
of returns on leveraged leases when there is a change in the timing or projected
timing of cash flows relating to income taxes associated with such leases. The
January 1, 2007 transition reduced our retained earnings by $126 million, $49
million associated with the application of a "more likely than not" threshold to
the recognition and derecognition of tax provisions and $77 million with the
recalculation of returns on leveraged leases. Of this total, $89 million was a
decrease in goodwill and $77 million was a decrease in financing receivables –
net, partially offset by a $40 million decrease in income tax
liabilities.

NOTE 2. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE AND
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Assets
and Liabilities of Businesses Held for Sale

On
December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to
transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will
consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's cable networks,
regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated
investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive $6,500 million in cash
(subject to certain adjustments based on various events between contract signing
and closing) and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. The
transaction is subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is
expected to close within the next year.

We also
entered into an agreement whereby we will acquire approximately 38% of Vivendi’s
interest in NBCU for $2,000 million on September 26, 2010, if the transaction
described above has not yet closed. Provided the transaction subsequently
closes, we will acquire the remaining Vivendi NBCU interest for $3,578 million
and make an additional payment of $222 million related to the previously
purchased shares. If the entity formation transaction closes before September
26, 2010, we will purchase Vivendi’s entire ownership interest in NBCU (20%) for
$5,800 million.

(101)

Prior to
the sale, NBCU will borrow approximately $9,100 million from third-party lenders
and distribute the cash to us. We expect to realize approximately $8,000 million
in cash after debt reduction, transaction fees and the buyout of the Vivendi
interest in NBCU.

With
respect to our 49% interest in the newly formed entity, we will hold redemption
rights which, if exercised, cause the entity to purchase half of our ownership
interest after 3.5 years and the remaining half after 7 years subject to certain
exceptions, conditions and limitations. Our interest will also be subject to
call provisions which, if exercised, allow Comcast Corporation to purchase our
interest at specified times subject to certain exceptions. The redemption price
for such transactions is determined pursuant to a formula specified in the
agreement.

We have
classified the NBCU assets and liabilities of $32,150 million and $5,751
million, respectively, as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The major classes
of assets are current receivables ($2,136 million), property, plant and
equipment – net ($1,805 million), goodwill and other intangible assets – net
($21,574 million) and all other assets ($6,514 million), including film and
television production costs of $4,507 million. The major classes of liabilities
are accounts payable ($398 million), other current liabilities ($4,051 million)
and all other liabilities ($1,300 million).

On
November 12, 2009, we committed to sell our Security business (within Enterprise
Solutions), and expect to complete this sale in early 2010. Assets and
liabilities of $1,780 million and $282 million, respectively, were classified as
held for sale at December 31, 2009.

On
January 7, 2009, we exchanged our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland,
the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in
Ireland for a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate
bank. Assets and liabilities of $7,887 million and $636 million, respectively,
were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2008; we recognized a $184
million loss, net of tax, related to the classification of the assets held for
sale at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to
sell.

On
December 24, 2008, we committed to sell a portion of our Australian residential
mortgage business, including certain underlying mortgage receivables, and
completed this sale during the first quarter of 2009. Assets of $2,669 million
were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2008 (liabilities were
insignificant); we recognized a $38 million loss, net of tax, related to the
classifications of the assets held for sale at the lower of carrying amount or
estimated fair value less costs to sell.

Summarized
financial information for businesses held for sale is shown below.

(102)

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan
business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our
investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC) and
Plastics. Associated results of operations, financial position and cash flows
are separately reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented.

GE
Money Japan

During
the third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell Lake upon determining
that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on
unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During
the third quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which
included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding
our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. As a result, we recognized an
after-tax loss of $908 million in 2007 and an incremental loss in 2008 of $361
million. GE Money Japan revenues from discontinued operations were $1 million,
$763 million and $1,307 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In total,
GE Money Japan losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $158
million, $651 million and $1,220 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

WMC

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our U.S. mortgage business.
In connection with the transaction, WMC retained certain obligations related to
loans sold prior to the disposal of the business, including WMC’s contractual
obligations to repurchase previously sold loans as to which there was an early
payment default or with respect to which certain contractual representations and
warranties were not met. Reserves related to these obligations were $205 million
at December 31, 2009, and $244 million at December 31, 2008. The amount of these
reserves is based upon pending and estimated future loan repurchase requests,
the estimated percentage of loans validly tendered for repurchase, and our
estimated losses on loans repurchased. Based on our historical experience, we
estimate that a small percentage of the total loans we originated and sold will
be tendered for repurchase, and of those tendered, only a limited amount will
qualify as “validly tendered,” meaning the loans sold did not satisfy specified
contractual obligations. The amount of our current reserve represents our best
estimate of losses with respect to our repurchase obligations. However, actual
losses could exceed our reserve amount if actual claim rates, valid tenders or
losses we incur on repurchased loans are higher than historically observed. WMC
revenues from discontinued operations were $2 million, $(71) million and
$(1,424) million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In total, WMC’s loss from
discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $1 million, $41 million and $987
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

GE
industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were
$(18) million, $40 million and $1,867 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Assets
of GE industrial discontinued operations were $50 million and $64 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Liabilities of GE industrial
discontinued operations were $163 million and $189 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, and primarily represent taxes payable and pension
liabilities related to the sale of our Plastics business in 2007.

Summarized
financial information for discontinued GECS operations is shown
below.

(103)

(a)

The
      sum of GE industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of
      taxes, and GECS earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of
      taxes, are reported as GE industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued
      operations, net of taxes, on the Condensed Statement of
      Earnings.

Assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, primarily comprised a
deferred tax asset for a loss carryforward, which expires in 2015, related to
the sale of our GE Money Japan business.

(104)

NOTE 3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES

The vast
majority of our investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and
comprise mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting obligations to
annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations and holders of
guaranteed investment contracts, and retained interests in securitization
entities.

(a)

Substantially collateralized by
      U.S. mortgages.

(b)

Included $1,918 million and $1,752
      million of retained interests at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
      accounted for at fair value in accordance with ASC 815,

Derivatives
      and Hedging

. See Note
      23.

The fair
value of investment securities increased to $51.9 billion at December 31, 2009,
from $41.4 billion at December 31, 2008, primarily driven by decreases in
unrealized losses due to market improvements, investment of cash into short-term
investments such as money market funds and certificates of deposits, and an
increase in our retained interests in securitization entities.

(105)

The
following tables present the gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values
of our available-for-sale investment securities.

We adopted amendments to ASC 320 and recorded a cumulative
effect adjustment to increase retained earnings as of April 1, 2009, of $62
million.

We
regularly review investment securities for impairment using both qualitative and
quantitative criteria. We presently do not intend to sell our debt securities
and believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell
these securities that are in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our
amortized cost. We believe that the unrealized loss associated with our equity
securities will be recovered within the foreseeable future.

The vast
majority of our U.S. corporate debt securities are rated investment grade by the
major rating agencies. We evaluate U.S. corporate debt securities based on a
variety of factors such as the financial health of and specific prospects for
the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance with the terms and
covenants of the security. In the event a U.S. corporate debt security is deemed
to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we isolate the credit portion of the
impairment by comparing the present value of our expectation of cash flows to
the amortized cost of the security. We discount the cash flows using the
original effective interest rate of the security.

(106)

The vast
majority of our residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) have
investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a
senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Of our total RMBS at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $897 million and $1,310 million,
respectively, relate to residential subprime credit, primarily supporting our
guaranteed investment contracts. These are collateralized primarily by pools of
individual, direct mortgage loans (a majority of which were originated in 2006
and 2005), not other structured products such as collateralized debt
obligations. In addition, of the total residential subprime credit exposure at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $768 million and $1,093 million,
respectively, was insured by Monoline insurers (Monolines).

The vast
majority of our commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) also have
investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a
senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Our CMBS investments are
collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that were originated for
securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans backed by high quality
properties (large loan CMBS), a majority of which were originated in 2006 and
2007.

For
asset-backed securities, including RMBS, we estimate the portion of loss
attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model that considers
estimates of cash flows generated from the underlying collateral. Estimates of
cash flows consider internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment
assumptions that incorporate management’s best estimate of key assumptions,
including default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. For CMBS, we
estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit by evaluating potential
losses on each of the underlying loans in the security. Collateral cash flows
are considered in the context of our position in the capital structure of the
deal. Assumptions can vary widely depending upon the collateral type, geographic
concentrations and vintage.

If there
has been an adverse change in cash flows for RMBS, management considers credit
enhancements such as monoline insurance (which are features of a specific
security). In evaluating the overall credit worthiness of the Monoline, we use
an analysis that is similar to the approach we use for corporate bonds,
including an evaluation of the sufficiency of the Monoline’s cash reserves and
capital, ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears
imminent, and the potential for intervention by an insurance or other
regulator.

During
the period April 1, 2009, through December 31, 2009, we recorded pre-tax,
other-than-temporary impairments of $780 million, of which $455 million was
recorded through earnings ($42 million relates to equity securities), and $325
million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
(AOCI).

Prior to
April 1, 2009, we recognized impairments in earnings of $423 million associated
with debt securities still held. As of April 1, 2009, we reversed previously
recognized impairments of $99 million ($62 million after tax) as an adjustment
to retained earnings in accordance with the amendments to ASC 320. Subsequent to
April 1, 2009, we recognized first time impairments of $108 million and
incremental charges on previously impaired securities of $257 million. These
amounts included $124 million related to securities that were subsequently
sold.

We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain
obligations.

(107)

Supplemental
information about gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale
investment securities follows.

(a)

Included gain on sale of Swiss Re
      common stock of $566 million in
2007.

Although
we generally do not have the intent to sell any specific securities at the end
of the period, in the ordinary course of managing our investment securities
portfolio, we may sell securities prior to their maturities for a variety of
reasons, including diversification, credit quality, yield and liquidity
requirements and the funding of claims and obligations to policyholders. In some
of our bank subsidiaries we maintain a certain level of purchases and sales
volume principally of non-U.S. government debt securities. In these situations,
fair value approximates carrying value for these securities.

Proceeds
from investment securities sales and early redemptions by the issuer totaled
$7,823 million, $3,942 million and $18,055 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, principally from the sales and early redemptions of securities in
our bank subsidiaries in 2009, securities that support the guaranteed investment
contract portfolio in 2008 and the sale of Swiss Re common stock in
2007.

We
recognized pre-tax gains on trading securities of $408 million, $108 million and
$292 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Investments in retained
interests increased by $291 million during 2009, decreased $113 million and $102
million during 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflecting changes in fair
value.

NOTE 4. CURRENT RECEIVABLES

(a)

Included
      GE industrial customer receivables factored through a GECS affiliate and
      reported as financing receivables by GECS. See Note
  26.

(b)

Excluded
      $2,282 million of receivables classified as assets of businesses held for
      sale at December 31, 2009.

GE
receivables balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, before allowance for losses,
included $7,455 million and $11,274 million, respectively, from sales of goods
and services to customers, and $37 million and $293 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, from transactions with associated
companies.

(108)

GE
current receivables of $104 million and $231 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, arose from sales, principally of Aviation goods and services
on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government. About 6% of GE sales
of goods and services were to the U.S. government in 2009, compared with 5% in
2008 and 4% in 2007.

NOTE 5. INVENTORIES

NOTE 6. GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON
FINANCING RECEIVABLES

(a)

Included
      $3,444 million and $6,461 million primarily related to consolidated,
      liquidating securitization entities at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively. In addition, financing receivables at December 31, 2009 and
      2008, included $2,704 million and $2,736 million, respectively, relating
      to loans that had been acquired in a transfer but have been subject to
      credit deterioration since origination per ASC 310,

Receivables

.

Effective
January 1, 2009, loans acquired in a business acquisition are recorded at fair
value, which incorporates our estimate at the acquisition date of the credit
losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. As a result, the allowance for
loan losses is not carried over at acquisition. This may result in lower reserve
coverage ratios prospectively. Details of financing receivables – net
follow.

(109)

(a)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period’s
      presentation.

(b)

Included
      loans and financing leases of $13,254 million and $13,078 million at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to commercial aircraft
      at Aviation Financial Services.

(c)

Consisted
      of loans and financing leases related to certain consolidated, liquidating
      securitization entities.

GECS
financing receivables include both loans and financing leases. Loans represent
transactions in a variety of forms, including revolving charge and credit,
mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans
secured by business assets. The portfolio includes loans carried at the
principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and loans
carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges.

Investment
in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of
aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data
processing equipment, medical equipment, commercial real estate and other
manufacturing, power generation, and commercial equipment and
facilities.

For
federal income tax purposes, the leveraged leases and the majority of the direct
financing leases are leases in which GECS depreciates the leased assets and is
taxed upon the accrual of rental income. Certain direct financing leases are
loans for federal income tax purposes. For these transactions, GECS is taxable
only on the portion of each payment that constitutes interest, unless the
interest is tax-exempt (e.g., certain obligations of state
governments).

Investment
in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and
estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related
deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and interest on
notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to
leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in
liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals receivable. The
GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share
of other participants who also have security interests in the leased
equipment.

(110)

For
federal income tax purposes, GECS is entitled to deduct the interest expense
accruing on nonrecourse financing related to leveraged leases.

(a)

Included
      $615 million and $824 million of initial direct costs on direct financing
      leases at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
  respectively.

(b)

Included
      pre-tax income of $164 million and $268 million and income tax of $65
      million and $106 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net
      investment credits recognized on leveraged leases during 2009 and 2008
      were inconsequential.

We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual
maturities.

(111)

Individually
impaired loans are defined by GAAP as larger balance or restructured loans for
which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. An analysis of
impaired loans and specific reserves follows. The vast majority of our consumer
and a portion of our CLL nonearning receivables are excluded from this
definition, as they represent smaller balance homogeneous loans that we evaluate
collectively by portfolio for impairment.

(a)

Recognized
      principally on cash basis.

Impaired
loans increased by $9,303 million from December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2009
primarily relating to increases at Real Estate ($5,678 million) and CLL ($2,697
million). We regularly review our Real Estate loans for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative factors, such as debt service coverage and
loan-to-value ratios.  We classify Real Estate loans as impaired when
the most recent valuation reflects a projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity
in excess of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance with
contractual terms. The increase in impaired loans and related specific reserves
at Real Estate reflects our current estimate of collateral values of the
underlying properties, and our estimate of loans which are not past due, but for
which it is probable that we will be unable to collect the full principal
balance at maturity due to a decline in the underlying value of the collateral.
Of our $6,519 million impaired loans at Real Estate at December 31, 2009, $4,396
million are currently paying in accordance with the contractual terms of the
loan. Impaired loans at CLL primarily represent senior secured lending
positions.

(112)

(a)

Other
      primarily included the effects of securitization activity, currency
      exchange and dispositions.

(b)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period’s
      presentation.

(113)

(a)

Other
      primarily included the effects of securitization activity, currency
      exchange, dispositions and
acquisitions.

(b)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period’s
      presentation.

(114)

(a)

Other
      primarily included the effects of acquisitions, currency exchange and
      securitization activity.

(b)

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period's
      presentation.

(115)

NOTE 7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

(a)

Excluded
      $3,426 million of original cost and $1,942 million of net carrying value
      at December 31, 2009, classified as assets of businesses held for
      sale.

(b)

Depreciable lives exclude
      land.

(c)

Included
      $1,609 million and $1,748 million of original cost of assets leased to GE
      with accumulated amortization of $572 million and $491 million at December
      31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(d)

At
      December 31, 2008, included $7,774 million of original cost assets and
      $4,737 million net carrying value related to Penske Truck Leasing Co.,
      L.P. (PTL), which was deconsolidated in
2009.

(e)

The GECAS business of Capital
      Finance recognized impairment losses of $127 million in 2009 and $72
      million in 2008 recorded in the caption “Other costs and expenses” in the
      Statement of Earnings to reflect adjustments to fair value based on
      current market values from independent
  appraisers.

(116)

Amortization
of GECS equipment leased to others was $7,179 million, $8,173 million and $7,222
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Noncancellable future rentals due
from customers for equipment on operating leases at December 31, 2009, are as
follows:

NOTE 8. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

(a)

Excluded
      intangible assets subject to amortization of $365 million at NBCU and $283
      million at our Security business classified as held for sale at December
      31, 2009, which principally consists of capitalized software and
      customer-related assets.

(b)

Excluded $2,207 million of
      indefinite-lived intangible assets at NBCU classified as held for sale at
      December 31, 2009, which principally comprised trademarks, tradenames and
      U.S. Federal Communications Commission
  licenses.

Changes
in goodwill balances follow.

(117)

Goodwill related to new acquisitions in 2009 was $3,417 million
and included acquisitions of BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) ($1,605 million) and
Interbanca S.p.A. ($1,394 million) at Capital Finance and Airfoils Technologies
International – Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ATI-Singapore) ($342 million) at Technology
Infrastructure. During 2009, the goodwill balance increased by $128 million
related to acquisition accounting adjustments for prior-year acquisitions. The
most significant of these adjustments was an increase of $180 million associated
with the 2008 acquisition of CitiCapital at Capital Finance, partially offset by
a decrease of $141 million associated with the 2008 acquisition of Hydril
Pressure Control by Energy Infrastructure. Also during 2009, goodwill balances
decreased $19,730 million, primarily as a result of NBCU and our Security
business being classified as held for sale ($19,001 million) and ($1,077
million), respectively, by the deconsolidation of PTL ($634 million) at Capital
Finance and the disposition of 81% of GE Homeland Protection, Inc. ($423
million) at Technology Infrastructure, partially offset by weaker U.S. dollar
($1,666 million).

On March
20, 2009, we increased our ownership in ATI-Singapore from 49% to 100% and
concurrently acquired from the same seller a controlling financial interest in
certain affiliates. We remeasured our previous equity interests to fair value,
resulting in a pre-tax gain of $254 million, which is reported in other
income.

On June
25, 2009, we increased our ownership in BAC from 49.99% to 75% for a purchase
price of $623 million, in accordance with terms of a previous agreement. We
remeasured our previously held equity investment to fair value, resulting in a
pre-tax gain of $343 million, which is reported in GECS revenues from
services.

Goodwill
balances increased $3,694 million in 2008 from new acquisitions. The most
significant increases related to acquisitions of Hydril Pressure Control ($725
million) at Energy Infrastructure, Merrill Lynch Capital ($643 million) at
Capital Finance, Vital Signs ($594 million) and Whatman plc. ($592 million) at
Technology Infrastructure, Bank BPH ($470 million) at Capital Finance, CDM
Resource Management, Ltd. ($229 million) at Capital Finance and CitiCapital
($166 million) at Capital Finance. During 2008, the goodwill balance increased
by $599 million related to acquisition accounting adjustments for prior-year
acquisitions. The most significant of these adjustments were increases of $267
million and $171 million associated with the 2007 acquisitions of Oxygen Media
Corp. by NBC Universal and Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd. by Capital Finance,
respectively. In 2008, goodwill balances decreased $2,639 million as a result of
the stronger U.S. dollar.

Upon
closing an acquisition, we estimate the fair values of assets and liabilities
acquired and consolidate the acquisition as quickly as possible. Given the time
it takes to obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired company’s
balance sheet, then to adjust the acquired company’s accounting policies,
procedures, and books and records to our standards, it is often several quarters
before we are able to finalize those initial fair value estimates. Accordingly,
it is not uncommon for our initial estimates to be subsequently
revised.

Given
the significant decline in our stock price in the first quarter of 2009 and
market conditions in the financial services industry at that time, we conducted
an additional impairment analysis of the Capital Finance reporting units during
the first quarter of 2009 using data as of January 1, 2009. As a result of these
tests, no goodwill impairment was recognized.

We
performed our annual impairment test for goodwill at all of our reporting units
in the third quarter using data as of July 1, 2009. In performing the
valuations, we used cash flows that reflected management’s forecasts and
discount rates that reflect the risks associated with the current market. Based
on the results of our testing, the fair values at each of the GE Industrial
reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS
reporting units exceeded their book values; therefore, the second step of the
impairment test (in which fair value of each of the reporting unit’s assets and
liabilities are measured) was not required to be performed and no goodwill
impairment was recognized. Due to the volatility and uncertainties in the
current commercial real estate environment, we used a range of valuations to
determine the fair value for our Real Estate reporting unit. While the Real
Estate reporting unit’s book value was within the range of its fair value, we
further substantiated our Real Estate goodwill balance by performing the second
step analysis described above. As a result of our tests for Real Estate, no
goodwill impairment was recognized. Our Real Estate reporting unit had a
goodwill balance of $1,189 million at December 31, 2009.

(118)

Estimating
the fair value of reporting units involves the use of estimates and significant
judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating
results. If current conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future
periods.

During 2009, we recorded additions to intangible assets subject
to amortization of $1,707 million. The components of finite-lived intangible
assets acquired during 2009 and their respective weighted-average amortizable
period are: $302 million – Customer-related (15.4 years); $171 million –
Patents, licenses and trademarks (11.2 years); $611 million – Capitalized
software (4.3 years); $4 million – Lease valuations (5.2 years); and $619
million – All other (4.0 years).

Consolidated
amortization related to intangible assets subject to amortization was $2,100
million and $2,091 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate annual
pre-tax amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization over the next
five calendar years to be as follows: 2010 – $1,725 million; 2011 – $1,442
million; 2012 – $1,229 million; 2013 – $1,036 million; 2014 – $1,044
million.

(119)

NOTE 9. ALL OTHER ASSETS

(a)

Investments
      in associated companies, film and television costs and long-term
      receivables excluded $1,236 million, $4,507 million and $466 million,
      respectively, of assets classified as assets of businesses held for sale
      at December 31, 2009.

(b)

Included loans to GECS of $1,102
      million and $1,038 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(c)

GECS investment in real estate
      consisted principally of two categories: real estate held for investment
      and equity method investments. Both categories contained a wide range of
      properties including the following at December 31, 2009: office buildings
      (45%), apartment buildings (13%), industrial properties (11%), retail
      facilities (9%), franchise properties (7%), parking facilities (2%) and
      other (13%). At December 31, 2009, investments were located in the
      Americas (46%), Europe (32%) and Asia
  (22%).

(d)

The fair value of and unrealized
      loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position for less
      than 12 months at December 31, 2009, were $423 million and $67 million,
      respectively. The fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method
      investments in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more at
      December 31, 2009, were $48 million and $13 million, respectively. The
      fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a
      continuous loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2008,
      were $565 million and $98 million, respectively. The fair value of and
      unrealized loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position
      for 12 months or more at December 31, 2008, were $64 million and $4
      million, respectively.

(e)

Assets
      were classified as held for sale on the date a decision was made to
      dispose of them through sale, securitization or other means. Such assets
      consisted primarily of credit card receivables, loans, aircraft, equipment
      and real estate properties, and were accounted for at the lower of
      carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. These amounts
      are net of valuation allowances of $145 million and $112 million at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

(f)

Included
      $1,642 million and $434 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively, of unamortized fees related to our participation in the
      Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
Program.

(120)

NOTE 10. BORROWINGS AND BANK DEPOSITS

(121)

(a)

Based
      on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates. Current
      portion of long-term debt included the effects of related fair value
      interest rate and currency hedges, if any, directly associated with the
      original debt issuance.

(b)

General
      Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) had issued and outstanding
      $59,336 million (long-term borrowings) and $35,243 million ($21,823
      million commercial paper and $13,420 million long-term borrowings) of
      senior, unsecured debt that was guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
      Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
      Program at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. GE Capital and GE are
      parties to an Eligible Entity Designation Agreement and GE Capital is
      subject to the terms of a Master Agreement, each entered into with the
      FDIC. The terms of these agreements include, among other things, a
      requirement that GE and GE Capital reimburse the FDIC for any amounts that
      the FDIC pays to holders of GE Capital debt that is guaranteed by the
      FDIC.

(c)

Consists
      entirely of obligations of consolidated, liquidating securitization
      entities. See Note 23.

(d)

Included
      $204 million and $326 million of asset-backed senior notes, issued by
      consolidated, liquidating securitization entities at December 31, 2009 and
      2008, respectively.

(e)

Included
      in total long-term borrowings was $3,138 million of obligations to holders
      of guaranteed investment contracts at December 31, 2009, of which GE
      Capital could be required to repay up to approximately $3,000 million if
      its long-term credit rating were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term
      credit rating were to fall below
A-1+/P-1.

(f)

Entirely
      variable denomination floating rate demand
  notes.

(g)

Included
      $1,649 million of covered bonds at December 31, 2009. If the short-term
      credit rating of GE Capital were reduced below A-1/P-1, GE Capital would
      be required to partially cash collateralize these bonds in an amount up to
      $775 million.

(h)

Included
      $452 million and $2,104 million of asset-backed senior notes, issued by
      consolidated, liquidating securitization entities at December 31, 2009 and
      2008, respectively. See Note 23.

(i)

Included
      $417 million and $750 million of subordinated notes guaranteed by GE at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

(j)

Subordinated
      debentures receive rating agency equity credit and were hedged at issuance
      to the U.S. dollar equivalent of $7,725
million.

(k)

Included
      $21,252 million and $12,314 million of deposits in non-U.S. banks at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $10,476 million and $6,699
      million of certificates of deposits distributed by brokers with maturities
      greater than one year at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

Our
borrowings are addressed below from the perspectives of liquidity, interest rate
and currency risk management. Additional information about borrowings and
associated swaps can be found in Note 22.

Liquidity

is affected by debt
maturities and our ability to repay or refinance such debt. Long-term debt
maturities over the next five years follow.

(a)

Fixed and floating rate notes of
      $632 million contain put options with exercise dates in 2010, and which
      have final maturity beyond
2014.

Committed
credit lines totaling $51.7 billion had been extended to us by 59 banks at
year-end 2009. Availability of these lines is shared between GE and GECS with
$9.0 billion and $51.7 billion available to GE and GECS, respectively. The GECS
lines include $36.8 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can
borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $14.4 billion are
364-day lines that contain a term-out feature that allows GE or GECS to extend
the borrowings for one year from the date of expiration of the lending
agreement. We pay banks for credit facilities, but amounts were insignificant in
each of the past three years.

(122)

NOTE 11. GECS INVESTMENT CONTRACTS, INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND
INSURANCE ANNUITY BENEFITS

GECS
investment contracts, insurance liabilities and insurance annuity benefits
comprise mainly obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations and holders of guaranteed investment
contracts.

(a)

Life insurance benefits are
      accounted for mainly by a net-level-premium method using estimated yields
      generally ranging from 3.0% to 8.50% in both 2009 and
      2008.

When
insurance affiliates cede insurance to third parties, such as reinsurers, they
are not relieved of their primary obligation to policyholders. Losses on ceded
risks give rise to claims for recovery; we establish allowances for probable
losses on such receivables from reinsurers as required. Reinsurance recoverables
are included in the caption “Other GECS receivables" on our Statement of
Financial Position, and amounted to $1,188 million and $1,062 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We
recognize reinsurance recoveries as a reduction of the Statement of Earnings
caption “Investment contracts, insurance losses and insurance annuity benefits.”
Reinsurance recoveries were $219 million, $221 million and $104 million for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

NOTE 12. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

Pension
Benefits

We
sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans, together with
affiliate and certain other pension plans (other pension plans) detailed in this
note, represent about 99% of our total pension assets. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans.

Principal Pension Plans

are
the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan.

The GE
Pension Plan provides benefits to certain U.S. employees based on the greater of
a formula recognizing career earnings or a formula recognizing length of service
and final average earnings. Certain benefit provisions are subject to collective
bargaining.

The GE
Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing supplementary
retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S.
employees.

(123)

Other Pension Plans

in 2009
included 32 U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans with pension assets or obligations
greater than $50 million. These defined benefit plans provide benefits to
employees based on formulas recognizing length of service and
earnings.

(a)

In
      2009, included a $103 million loss as a result of our agreement with
      Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly
      formed entity in which we will own a 49%
  interest.

Actuarial assumptions

are
described below. The discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit
obligations and the earnings effects for the subsequent year.

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension
plan assets, we consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as
historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In
developing future return expectations for our principal benefit plans' assets,
we evaluate general market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns
such as expected earnings growth, yields and spreads across a number of
potential scenarios. For the principal pension plans, we apply our expected rate
of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes variability in
the amounts to which we apply that expected return.

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees.

Funding policy

for the GE
Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding
requirements as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws plus such additional
amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. We have not made contributions to
the GE Pension Plan since 1987 and will not make any such contributions in 2010.
In 2010, we expect to pay approximately $190 million for benefit payments under
our GE Supplementary Pension Plan and administrative expenses of our principal
pension plans and expect to contribute approximately $600 million to other
pension plans. In 2009, comparative amounts were $168 million and $676 million,
respectively.

(124)

Benefit obligations

are
described in the following tables. Accumulated and projected benefit obligations
(ABO and PBO) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of
the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date with
benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO is ABO increased to
reflect expected future compensation.

(a)

Principally
      associated with discount rate
changes.

(b)

The
      PBO for the GE Supplementary Pension Plan, which is an unfunded plan, was
      $3,828 million and $3,505 million at year-end 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(a)

Primarily
      related to the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan.

Plan
Assets

The fair
value of the major categories of the pension plans' investments are presented
below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the
assets are consistently applied and described in Note 21.

(125)

(a)

Target
      allocations were 17-37% for U.S. equity securities and 17-37% for non-U.S.
      equity securities.

Plan
fiduciaries of the GE Pension Plan set investment policies and strategies for
the GE Pension Trust and oversee its investment allocation, which includes
selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic asset-liability studies
and setting long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment
objectives include preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk
and return. Target allocation percentages are established at an asset class
level by plan fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not
limitations, and occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or
below a target range.

GE
Pension Trust assets are invested subject to the following additional
guidelines:

·

Short-term
      securities must generally be rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such
      securities that may be rated A2/P2.

·

Real
      estate investments may not exceed 25% of total
  assets.

·

Investments
      in restricted securities (excluding real estate investments) that are not
      freely tradable may not exceed 30% of total assets (actual was 17% of
      trust assets at December 31, 2009).

According
to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying employer securities (e.g.,
GE common stock) and qualifying employer real property may not exceed 10% of the
fair value of trust assets at the time of purchase. GE securities represented
3.3% and 3.5% of trust assets at year-end 2009 and 2008,
respectively.

The GE
Pension Plan has a broadly diversified portfolio of investments in equities,
fixed income, private equities, real estate and hedge funds; these investments
are both U.S. and non-U.S. in nature. As of December 31, 2009, no one sector
concentration of assets exceeded 15% of total GE Pension Plan
assets.

(126)

The
following table presents GE Pension Plan investments measured at fair
value.

(a)

Primarily
      represented investment-grade bonds of U.S. issuers from diverse
      industries.

(b)

Primarily
      represented investments in non-U.S. corporate bonds and commercial
      mortgage-backed securities.

(c)

Included
      direct investments and investment
funds.

(d)

Substantially
      all represented hedge funds.

The
following table presents the changes in Level 3 investments for the GE Pension
Plan.

(a)

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period.

(b)

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in the GE
      Pension Plan earnings.

(127)

As of
December 31, 2009, other pension plans' assets were $6,919 million. Equity
investment funds amounting to $3,996 million and fixed income and cash
investment funds amounting to $1,843 million represented approximately 85% of
total investments as of December 31, 2009. The investments were classified as
15% Level 1, 80% Level 2 and 5% Level 3. The changes in Level 3 investments
were insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2009.

(a)

Fair value of assets less PBO, as
      shown in the preceding
tables.

(b)

For
      principal pension plans, represents the GE Supplementary Pension Plan
      liability.

In 2010,
we estimate that we will amortize $260 million of prior service cost and $1,335
million of net actuarial loss for the principal pension plans from shareowners’
equity into pension cost. For other pension plans, the estimated prior service
cost and net actuarial loss to be amortized over the next fiscal year are $15
million and $210 million, respectively. Comparable amortized amounts in 2009,
respectively, were $426 million and $348 million for the principal pension plans
and $11 million and $134 million for other pension plans.

Retiree
Health and Life Benefits

We
sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance benefit plans (retiree
benefit plans). Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans.

Principal Retiree Benefit
Plans

provide health and life insurance benefits to certain employees who
retire under the GE Pension Plan with 10 or more years of service. Eligible
retirees share in the cost of healthcare benefits. These plans cover
approximately 220,000 retirees and dependents.

(128)

(a)

In
      2009, we recognized a $45 million loss as a result of our agreement with
      Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly
      formed entity in which we will own a 49% interest. Prior service cost
      amortization increased by $164 million and net actuarial gain amortization
      increased by $119 million as a result of this
  agreement.

Actuarial assumptions

are
described below

.

The
discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit obligations and the
earnings effects for the subsequent year.

(a)

Weighted
      average discount rate of 6.34% was used for determination of costs in
      2008.

(b)

For
      2009, ultimately declining to 6% for 2025 and
  thereafter.

(c)

Includes
      benefits from new healthcare supplier
contracts.

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on retiree life plan assets, we
consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future
return expectations for retiree benefit plan assets, we evaluate general market
trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected earnings
growth, yields and spreads across a number of potential scenarios. We apply our
expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes
variability in the amounts to which we apply that expected return.

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees.

Funding
Policy.

We fund retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. We
expect to contribute approximately $710 million in 2010 to fund such benefits.
We fund retiree life insurance benefits at our discretion.

(129)

Changes
in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree benefit plans
follow.

(a)

For
      2009, included a $152 million reduction in APBO as a result of our
      agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU
      business to a newly formed entity in which we will own a 49%
      interest.

(b)

For
      2008, primarily related to benefits from new healthcare supplier
      contracts.

(c)

Net of Medicare Part D subsidy of
      $83 million in 2009 and
2008.

(d)

The APBO for the retiree health
      plans was $10,481 million and $9,749 million at year-end 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

A one
percentage point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
following effects.

Plan
Assets

The fair
value of the major categories of retiree benefit plans' investments are
presented below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair
value of assets are consistently applied and described in Note 21.

(a)

Net
      of Medicare Part D subsidy.

(130)

(a)

Target
      allocations were 19-39% for U.S. equity securities and 18-38% for non-U.S.
      equity securities.

Plan
fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the trust and oversee its
investment allocation, which includes selecting investment managers and setting
long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment objectives include
preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk and return. Target
allocation percentages are established at an asset class level by plan
fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and
occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target
range.

Trust
assets invested in short-term securities must generally be invested in
securities rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such securities that may be
rated A2/P2. According to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying
employer securities (e.g., GE common stock) and qualifying employer real
property may not exceed 10% of the fair value of trust assets at the time of
purchase. GE securities represented 3.7% and 3.6% of trust assets at year-end
2009 and 2008, respectively.

As of
December 31, 2009, retiree benefit plans' assets were $1,138 million. U.S. and
non-U.S. equity securities amounting to $315 million and $237 million,
respectively, fixed income and cash investment funds amounting to $214 million
and other debt securities amounting to $193 million represented approximately
80% of total investments as of December 31, 2009. The plans' investments were
classified as 42% Level 1, 37% Level 2 and 21% Level 3. The Level 3
investments primarily represented investments in private equities and real
estate. The changes in Level 3 investments were insignificant for the year ended
December 31, 2009.

(a)

Fair value of assets less APBO, as
      shown in the preceding
tables.

In 2010,
we estimate that we will amortize $630 million of prior service cost and $20
million of net actuarial gain from shareowners’ equity into retiree benefit
plans cost. Comparable amortized amounts in 2009 were $836 million of prior
service cost and $225 million of net actuarial gains.

(131)

(a)

In
      2009, the Company contracted with a third party to administer our
      principal post-age 65 drug plan as a Medicare-approved prescription drug
      plan. As a result, this post-age 65 drug plan will no longer qualify for
      the Medicare Part D direct employer subsidy effective January 1, 2011. The
      effects of this change have been included in our APBO as of December 31,
      2009.

Postretirement
Benefit Plans

NOTE 13. ALL OTHER LIABILITIES

This
caption includes liabilities for various items including non-current
compensation and benefits, deferred income, interest on tax liabilities,
unrecognized tax benefits, accrued participation and residuals, environmental
remediation, asset retirement obligations, derivative instruments, product
warranties and a variety of sundry items.

Accruals
for non-current compensation and benefits amounted to $24,921 million and
$22,543 million for year-end 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts include
postretirement benefits, pension accruals, and other compensation and benefit
accruals such as deferred incentive compensation. The increase in 2009 was
primarily the result of an increase in pension accruals.

We are
involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as
required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs exclude
possible insurance recoveries and, when dates and amounts of such costs are not
known, are not discounted. When there appears to be a range of possible costs
with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low end of such range.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information
related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate
of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation
exposure.

(132)

NOTE
14. INCOME TAXES

GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return.
The GECS provision for current tax expense includes its effect on the
consolidated return. The effect of GECS on the consolidated liability is settled
in cash as GE tax payments are due.

Consolidated
U.S. earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes were $(498)
million in 2009, $2,659 million in 2008 and $9,078 million in 2007. The
corresponding amounts for non-U.S.-based operations were $10,842 million in
2009, $17,123 million in 2008 and $18,450 million in 2007.

Consolidated
current tax expense includes amounts applicable to U.S. federal income taxes of
a benefit of $886 million and $723 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
expense of $64 million in 2007, and amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions
of $2,416 million, $3,060 million and $3,042 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Consolidated deferred taxes related to U.S. federal income taxes
were a benefit of $2,423 million and $827 million in 2009 and 2008,
respectively, and expense of $776 million in 2007.

Deferred
income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax
rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes
payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future
expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable
temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning
strategies. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a
deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is
established.

(133)

Our
businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state
and foreign tax laws, regulations and policies. Changes to these laws or
regulations may affect our tax liability, return on investments and business
operations. For example, GE’s effective tax rate is reduced because active
business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is
taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction
depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax
on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to
the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international
tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more
effectively with foreign banks and other foreign financial institutions in
global markets. This provision, which expired at the end of 2009, has been
scheduled to expire and has been extended by Congress on five previous
occasions, including in October of 2008. A one-year extension was passed by the
House of Representatives in 2009 and the Senate Finance Committee Chairman and
Ranking Member have indicated an intention to extend the provision for one year
retroactive to the beginning of 2010, but there can be no assurance that it will
be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after 2009, the current
U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United
States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services
companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we
expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2010.

We have
not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S. affiliates
and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings
relate to ongoing operations and, at December 31, 2009, were approximately $84
billion. Most of these earnings have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business
operations and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S.
operations. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not
practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be
payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely. Deferred taxes are
provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies when we
plan to remit those earnings.

During
2009, following the change in our external credit ratings, funding actions taken
and review of our operations, liquidity and funding, we determined that
undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on which we
had previously provided deferred U.S. taxes, would be indefinitely reinvested
outside the U.S. This change increased the amount of prior-year earnings
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion, resulting
in an income tax benefit of $700 million in 2009.

During
2008, because the use of foreign tax credits no longer required the repatriation
of prior-year earnings, we increased the amount of prior-year earnings that were
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $1.0 billion,
resulting in a decrease to the income tax provision of approximately $350
million.

As
discussed in Note 1, on January 1, 2007, we adopted amendments to ASC 740,
resulting in a $49 million decrease in retained earnings, an $89 million
decrease in goodwill and a $40 million decrease in income tax
liability.

Annually,
we file over 7,000 income tax returns in over 250 global taxing jurisdictions.
We are under examination or engaged in tax litigation in many of these
jurisdictions. During 2007, the IRS completed the audit of our consolidated U.S.
income tax returns for 2000-2002. At December 31, 2009, the IRS was auditing our
consolidated U.S. income tax returns for 2003-2007. In addition, certain other
U.S. tax deficiency issues and refund claims for previous years were unresolved.
It is reasonably possible that the 2003-2005 U.S. audit cycle will be completed
during the next 12 months, which could result in a decrease in our balance of
“unrecognized tax benefits” – that is, the aggregate tax effect of differences
between tax return positions and the benefits recognized in our financial
statements. We believe that there are no other jurisdictions in which the
outcome of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to our results
of operations, financial position or cash flows. We further believe that we have
made adequate provision for all income tax uncertainties.

The
balance of unrecognized tax benefits, the amount of related interest and
penalties we have provided and what we believe to be the range of reasonably
possible changes in the next 12 months, were:

(134)

(a)

Some portion of such reduction
      might be reported as discontinued
  operations.

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows:

We
classify interest on tax deficiencies as interest expense; we classify income
tax penalties as provision for income taxes. For the year ended December 31,
2009, $172 million of interest expense and $14 million of tax expense related to
penalties were recognized in the statement of earnings, compared with $268
million and $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $(279) million
and $(34) million for the year ended December 31, 2007.

A
reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the actual
income tax rate is provided below.

(a)

      included (6.8)% and 31.7% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year
      earnings for consolidated and GECS,
  respectively.

(b)

      included (1.8)% and (6.2)% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year
      earnings for consolidated and GECS,
  respectively.

(135)

Deferred
Income Taxes

Aggregate
deferred income tax amounts are summarized below.

Principal components of our net liability (asset) representing
deferred income tax balances are as follows:

(a)

Represented the tax effects of
      temporary differences related to expense accruals for a wide variety of
      items, such as employee compensation and benefits, pension plan
      liabilities, interest on tax liabilities, product warranties and other
      sundry items that are not currently
  deductible.

(b)

Net
      of valuation allowances of $835 million and $635 million for GE and $344
      million and $260 million for GECS, for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the
      net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2009, of $2,355 million, $42
      million relates to net operating loss carryforwards that expire in various
      years ending from December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012; $278
      million relates to net operating losses that expire in various years
      ending from December 31, 2013, through December 31, 2024; and $2,035

million relates to
      net operating loss carryforwards that may be carried forward
      indefinitely.

(136)

NOTE 15. SHAREOWNERS’ EQUITY

(a)

Additions
      resulting from issuances in 2008 were inconsequential for preferred stock
      and $33 million for common stock.

(b)

Total
      dividends and other transactions with shareowners, inclusive of additions
      to par value discussed in note (a), decreased equity by $5,049 million in
      2009, increased equity by $1,873 million in 2008 and decreased equity by
      $23,102 million in 2007.

(c)

GE
      has 50 million authorized shares of preferred stock ($1.00 par value) and
      has issued 30 thousand shares as of December 31,
  2009.

(d)

For 2009, included $(9) million of
      prior service costs for plan amendments, $814 million of amortization of
      prior service costs, $(2,793) million of gains (losses) arising during the
      year and $184 million of amortization of gains (losses) – net of deferred
      taxes of $(10) million, $434 million, $(528) million and $99 million,
      respectively. For 2008, included $(43) million of prior service costs for
      plan amendments, $534 million of amortization of prior service costs,
      $(13,980) million of gains (losses) arising during the year and $201
      million of amortization of gains (losses) – net of deferred taxes of $(24)
      million, $441 million, $(7,893) million and $97 million,
      respectively.

(e)

The
      2009 opening balance was adjusted as of April 1, 2009, for the cumulative
      effect of changes in accounting principles of $62 million related to
      adopting amendments on impairment guidance in ASC 320,

Investments – Debt and Equity
      Securities

. The cumulative effect of adopting ASC 825,

Financial Instruments

,
      at January 1, 2008, was insignificant. The 2007 opening balance change
      reflects cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of $(126)
      million related to adopting amendments to ASC 740,

Income Taxes

. See Note 1 for further
      information.

(f)

Included
      $300 million and $75 million of dividends on preferred stock in 2009 and
      2008, respectively.

(g)

Related
      to accretion of redeemable securities to their redemption
      value.

(h)

On
      January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 810 that requires us to
      classify noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as "minority
      Interest") as part of shareowners' equity and to disclose the amount of
      other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
      Changes to noncontrolling interests during 2009 resulted from net earnings
      $216 million, dividends paid $(548) million, deconsolidation of PTL $(331)
      million, dissolution of the joint venture in FANUC Ltd. $(376) million,
      AOCI $(95) million and other changes of $32 million. Changes to the
      individual components of other AOCI attributable to noncontrolling
      interests were insignificant.

(137)

Shares
of GE Preferred Stock

On
October 16, 2008, we issued 30,000 shares of 10% cumulative perpetual preferred
stock (par value $1.00 per share) having an aggregate liquidation value of $3.0
billion, and warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock (par value
$0.06 per share) for aggregate proceeds of $3.0 billion in cash. The proceeds
were allocated to the preferred shares ($2.5 billion) and the warrants ($0.5
billion) on a relative fair value basis and recorded in other capital. The
preferred stock is redeemable at our option three years after issuance at a
price of 110% of liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The
warrants are exercisable for five years at an exercise price of $22.25 per share
of common stock and are settled through physical share issuance. Upon redemption
of the preferred shares, the difference between the redemption amount and the
carrying amount of the preferred stock will be recorded as a reduction of
retained earnings and considered a deemed dividend for purposes of computing
earnings per share.

Shares
of GE Common Stock

On
September 25, 2008, we suspended our three-year, $15 billion share repurchase
program, which was initiated in December 2007. Under this program, on a book
basis, we repurchased 99.1 million shares for a total of $3.1 billion during
2008.

On
October 7, 2008, GE completed an offering of 547.8 million shares of common
stock at a price of $22.25 per share.

GE has
13.2 billion authorized shares of common stock ($0.06 par value).

Common
shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following
table.

Noncontrolling
Interests

Noncontrolling
interests in equity of consolidated affiliates includes common shares in
consolidated affiliates and preferred stock issued by affiliates of GE Capital.
Preferred shares that we are required to redeem at a specified or determinable
date are classified as liabilities. The balance is summarized as
follows:

(a)

Included
      noncontrolling interests in partnerships and common shares of consolidated
      affiliates.

(b)

The
      preferred stock pays cumulative dividends at an average rate of
      6.81%.

(138)

NOTE 16. OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION

We grant
stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units (PSUs)
to employees under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This plan replaced the
1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, we grant options and RSUs in limited
circumstances to consultants, advisors and independent contractors (primarily
non-employee talent at NBC Universal) under a plan approved by our Board of
Directors in 1997 (the consultants’ plan). There are outstanding grants under
one shareowner-approved option plan for non-employee directors. Share
requirements for all plans may be met from either unissued or treasury shares.
Stock options expire 10 years from the date they are granted and vest over
service periods that range from one to five years. RSUs give the recipients the
right to receive shares of our stock upon the vesting of their related
restrictions. Restrictions on RSUs vest in various increments and at various
dates, beginning after one year from date of grant through grantee retirement.
Although the plan permits us to issue RSUs settleable in cash, we have only
issued RSUs settleable in shares of our stock. PSUs give recipients the right to
receive shares of our stock upon the achievement of certain performance
targets.

All
grants of GE options under all plans must be approved by the Management
Development and Compensation Committee, which consists entirely of independent
directors.

(a)

In 2007, the Board of Directors
      approved the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan). The Plan replaced
      the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The maximum number of shares that may
      be granted under the Plan is 500 million shares, of which no more than 250
      million may be available for awards granted in any form provided under the
      Plan other than options or stock appreciation rights. The approximate
      105.9 million shares available for grant under the 1990 Plan were retired
      upon approval of the 2007 Plan. Total shares available for future issuance
      under the 2007 Plan amounted to 284.0 million shares at December 31,
      2009.

(b)

Not
    applicable.

(c)

Total shares available for future
      issuance under the consultants’ plan amount to 28.1 million
      shares.

Outstanding
options expire on various dates through December 10, 2019.

(139)

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2009.

At
year-end 2008, options with an average exercise price of $37.59 were exercisable
on 162 million shares.

(a)

Average
      contractual life remaining in
years.

We
measure the fair value of each stock option grant at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average grant-date fair value
of options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $3.81, $5.26 and $9.28,
respectively. The following assumptions were used in arriving at the fair value
of options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively: risk-free interest
rates of 3.2%, 3.4% and 4.2%; dividend yields of 3.9%, 4.4% and 2.9%; expected
volatility of 49%, 27% and 25%; and expected lives of six years and ten months,
six years and nine months, and six years and ten months. Risk-free interest
rates reflect the yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Expected
dividend yields presume a set dividend rate. For stock options granted in 2009
and the fourth quarter of 2008, we used a historical five-year average for the
dividend yield. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from
traded options and historical volatility of our stock. The expected option lives
are based on our historical experience of employee exercise
behavior.

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted
to an insignificant amount, $45 million and $375 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2009, there was $597 million of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to nonvested options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of two years, of which approximately $191 million, pre
tax, is expected to be recognized in 2010.

(140)

Stock
option expense recognized in net earnings amounted to $120 million in 2009 and
$69 million in both 2008 and 2007. Cash received from option exercises during
2009, 2008 and 2007 was an insignificant amount, $353 million and $747 million,
respectively. The tax benefit realized from stock options exercised during 2009,
2008 and 2007 was an insignificant amount, $15 million and $131 million,
respectively.

The fair
value of each restricted stock unit is the market price of our stock on the date
of grant. The weighted average grant date fair value of RSUs granted during
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $13.63, $28.74 and $38.84, respectively. The total
intrinsic value of RSUs vested during 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to $139
million, $274 million and $181 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009,
there was $482 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of two years, of which approximately $174 million, pre tax, is expected
to be recognized in 2010. As of December 31, 2009, 1.0 million PSUs with a
weighted average remaining contractual term of two years, an aggregate intrinsic
value of $14 million and $7 million of unrecognized compensation cost were
outstanding.

Other
share-based compensation expense recognized in net earnings amounted to $127
million, $155 million and $173 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

The
total income tax benefit recognized in earnings for all share-based compensation
arrangements amounted to $118 million, $106 million and $118 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.

When
stock options are exercised and restricted stock vests, the difference between
the assumed tax benefit and the actual tax benefit must be recognized in our
financial statements. In circumstances in which the actual tax benefit is lower
than the estimated tax benefit, that difference is recorded in equity, to the
extent there are sufficient accumulated excess tax benefits. At December 31,
2009, our accumulated excess tax benefits are sufficient to absorb any future
differences between actual and estimated tax benefits for all of our outstanding
option and restricted stock grants.

(141)

NOTE
17. OTHER INCOME

(a)

Included
      a gain of $552 million related to dilution of our interest in A&E
      Television Network from 25% to 15.8% in
2009.

(b)

In
      2009, included a gain of $254 million related to our increased ownership
      in ATI-Singapore from 49% to 100%. See Note 8. In 2007, included gain on
      sale of a business interest to Hitachi of $900
  million.

NOTE
18. GECS REVENUES FROM SERVICES

(a)

Included
      gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock of $566 million in 2007 and net
      other-than-temporary impairments on investment securities of $583 million,
      $1,420 million and $127 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of
      the $583 million, $33 million related to impairments recognized in the
      first quarter of 2009 that were reclassified to retained earnings as a
      result of the amendments to ASC 320. See Note
3.

(b)

Included
      a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL
      and a related gain on the remeasurement of the retained investment to fair
      value totaling $296 million in the first quarter of 2009. See Note
      23.

(c)

Included
      a gain of $343 million on the remeasurement to fair value of our equity
      method investment in BAC, following our acquisition of a controlling
      interest in the second quarter of 2009. See Note
  8.

NOTE 19. SUPPLEMENTAL COST INFORMATION

We
funded research and development expenditures of $3,324 million in 2009, $3,113
million in 2008 and $3,048 million in 2007. Research and development costs are
classified in cost of goods sold in the Statement of Earnings. In addition,
research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S.
government, totaled $1,050 million, $1,287 million and $1,067 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively.

Rental
expense under operating leases is shown below.

(142)

At
December 31, 2009, minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating
leases aggregated $2,674 million and $2,888 million for GE and GECS,
respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow.

GE’s
selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $14,842 million in 2009,
$14,401 million in 2008 and $14,148 million in 2007.

Our
Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments enter into
collaborative arrangements with manufacturers and suppliers of components used
to build and maintain certain engines, aero-derivatives, and turbines, under
which GE and these participants share in risks and rewards of these product
programs. Under these arrangements, participation fees earned and recorded as
other income totaled $1 million, $394 million and $481 million for the years
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Payments to participants are recorded as
costs of services sold ($504 million, $423 million and $320 million for the
years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) or as cost of goods sold ($1,731
million, $1,882 million and $1,573 million for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively).

NOTE 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION

Effective January 1, 2009, our unvested restricted stock unit
awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents
are considered participating securities and, therefore, are included in the
computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Application
of this treatment had an insignificant effect.

(a)

Included
      an insignificant amount of dividend equivalents in each of the three years
      presented and an insignificant amount related to accretion of redeemable
      securities in 2009.

For the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were approximately 328
million, 204 million and 77 million, respectively, of outstanding stock awards
that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because
their effect was antidilutive.

(143)

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently for earnings from continuing operations, loss
from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of per-share
amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the
total per-share amounts for net earnings.

NOTE 21. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

We
adopted ASC 820 in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we adopted it for all
financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value
on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This guidance
establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands related
disclosures. Broadly, the framework requires fair value to be determined based
on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. It
also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy based upon observable and
non-observable inputs.

The
following tables present our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. Included in the tables are investment securities of $25,729
million and $21,967 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
primarily supporting obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations, and $6,629 million and $8,190 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, supporting obligations to holders of guaranteed
investment contracts. Such securities are mainly investment grade.

(144)

(a)

Level
      3 investment securities valued using non-binding broker quotes totaled
      $1,055 million and $2,074 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively, and were classified as available-for-sale
      securities.

(b)

The
      netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally
      enforceable master netting agreement exists. Included fair value
      adjustments related to our own and counterparty credit
    risk.

(c)

The
      fair value of derivatives included an adjustment for non-performance risk.
      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cumulative adjustment was a gain of $9
      million and $177 million,
respectively.

(d)

Included
      private equity investments and loans designated under the fair value
      option.

(e)

Primarily
      represented the liability associated with certain of our deferred
      incentive compensation plans.

(145)

The
following tables present the changes in Level 3 instruments measured on a
recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The majority of our Level 3 balances consist of investment securities classified
as available-for-sale with changes in fair value recorded in shareowners’
equity.

(a)

Earnings
      effects are primarily included in the “GECS revenues from services” and
      “Interest and other financial charges” captions in the Condensed Statement
      of Earnings.

(b)

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period. Transfers out of Level 3 were a result of increased use of quotes
      from independent pricing vendors based on recent trading
      activity.

(c)

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in
      earnings.

(d)

Primarily
      comprised of interest accretion.

(e)

Represented
      derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals
      of $19 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy
      table.

(146)

(a)

Earnings
      effects are primarily included in the “GECS revenues from services” and
      “Interest and other financial charges” captions in the Statement of
      Earnings.

(b)

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period. Transfers into Level 3 were a result of increased use of
      non-binding broker quotes that could not be validated with other market
      observable data, resulting from continued deterioration in the credit
      markets.

(c)

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in
      earnings.

(d)

Earnings
      from derivatives were partially offset by $760 million in losses from
      related derivatives included in Level 2 and $4 million in losses from
      underlying debt obligations in qualifying fair value
    hedges.

(e)

Represented
      derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals
      of $27 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy
      table.

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

Non-recurring
fair value amounts (as measured at the time of the adjustment) for assets still
held at December 31, 2009 and 2008, totaled $516 million and $48 million,
identified as Level 2, and $17,434 million and $3,145 million, identified as
Level 3, respectively. The increase in Level 3 amounts related primarily to our
retained investment in PTL ($5,751 million), financing receivables and loans
held for sale ($5,420 million), long-lived assets ($5,105 million), primarily
real estate held for investment, equipment leased to others and equipment held
for sale, and cost and equity method investments ($1,006 million).

The
following table represents the fair value adjustments to assets measured at fair
value on a non-recurring basis and still held at December 31, 2009 and
2008.

(a)

Includes
      fair value adjustments associated with private equity and real estate
      funds of $(238) million and $(45) million during 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(b)

ASC
      820 was adopted for non-financial assets valued on a non-recurring basis
      as of January 1, 2009.

(147)

NOTE 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The
following table provides information about the assets and liabilities not
carried at fair value in our Statement of Financial Position. Consistent with
ASC 825,

Financial
Instruments

, the table excludes finance leases and non-financial assets
and liabilities. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable
securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their
fair values must often be determined using financial models. Realization of the
fair value of these instruments depends upon market forces beyond our control,
including marketplace liquidity.

(a)

These financial instruments do not
      have notional amounts.

(b)

See Note
  10.

(c)

Principally cost method
      investments.

(d)

Fair values exclude interest rate
      and currency derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings. Had they been
      included, the fair value of borrowings at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would
      have been reduced by $2,856 million and $3,776 million,
      respectively.

(e)

Net of reinsurance of $2,800
      million and $3,103 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

A
description of how we estimate fair values follows.

Loans

Based on
quoted market prices, recent transactions and/or discounted future cash flows,
using rates we would charge to similar borrowers with similar
maturities.

Borrowings
and bank deposits

Valuation
methodologies using current market interest rate data which are comparable to
market quotes adjusted for our non-performance risk.

(148)

Investment
contract benefits

Based on
expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered rates for immediate
annuity contracts or the income approach for single premium deferred
annuities.

Guaranteed
investment contracts

Based on
valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data, adjusted for
our non-performance risk.

All
other instruments

Based on
observable market transactions, valuation methodologies using current market
interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk and/or quoted market
prices.

Assets
and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at
fair value are not included in the above disclosures; such items include cash
and equivalents, investment securities and derivative financial
instruments.

Additional
information about certain categories in the table above follows.

Insurance
– credit life

Certain
insurance affiliates, primarily in Consumer, issue credit life insurance
designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan
is repaid. As part of our overall risk management process, we cede to third
parties a portion of this associated risk, but are not relieved of our primary
obligation to policyholders.

(a)

Excluded investment commitments of
      $2,659 million and $3,501 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(b)

Included
      a $972 million and $1,067 million commitment as of December 31, 2009 and
      2008, respectively, associated with a secured financing arrangement that
      can increase to a maximum of $4,998 million and $4,943 million based on
      the asset volume under the arrangement as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(c)

Excluded
      inventory financing arrangements, which may be withdrawn at our option, of
      $13,889 million and $14,503 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

Derivatives and hedging

As a
matter of policy, we use derivatives for risk management purposes, and we do not
use derivatives for speculative purposes. A key risk management objective for
our financial services businesses is to mitigate interest rate and currency risk
by seeking to ensure that the characteristics of the debt match the assets they
are funding. If the form (fixed versus floating) and currency denomination of
the debt we issue do not match the related assets, we typically execute
derivatives to adjust the nature and tenor of funding to meet this objective.
The determination of whether we enter into a derivative transaction or issue
debt directly to achieve this objective depends on a number of factors,
including customer needs for specific types of financing, and market related
factors that affect the type of debt we can issue.

(149)

Of the
outstanding notional amount of $353,000 million, approximately 87% or $307,000
million, is associated with reducing or eliminating the interest rate, currency
or market risk between financial assets and liabilities in our financial
services businesses. The remaining derivative activities primarily relate to
hedging against adverse changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices
related to anticipated sales and purchases, providing certain derivatives and/or
support arrangements to our customers, and contracts containing certain clauses
which meet the accounting definition of a derivative. The instruments used in
these activities are designated as hedges when practicable. When we are not able
to apply hedge accounting, or when the derivative and the hedged item are both
recorded in earnings currently, the derivatives are deemed economic hedges and
hedge accounting is not applied. This most frequently occurs when we hedge a
recognized foreign currency transaction (e.g., a receivable or payable) with a
derivative. Since the effects of changes in exchange rates are reflected
currently in earnings for both the derivative and the transaction, the economic
hedge does not require hedge accounting.

The
following table provides information about the fair value of our derivatives, by
contract type, separating those accounted for as hedges and those that are
not.

Derivatives
      are classified in the captions “All other assets” and “All other
      liabilities” in our financial
statements.

(a)

The
      netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally
      enforceable master netting agreement exists. Amounts included fair value
      adjustments related to our own and counterparty non-performance risk. At
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cumulative adjustment for
      non-performance risk was a gain of $9 million and $177 million,
      respectively.

(150)

Fair
value hedges

We use
interest rate and currency exchange derivatives to hedge the fair value effects
of interest rate and currency exchange rate changes on local and non-functional
currency denominated fixed-rate borrowings. For relationships designated as fair
value hedges, changes in fair value of the derivatives are recorded in earnings
along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt.
Through December 31, 2009, such adjustments increased the carrying amount of
debt outstanding by $3,675 million. The following table provides information
about the earnings effects of our fair value hedging relationships for the year
ended December 31, 2009.

Fair value hedges resulted in $(209) million of ineffectiveness
of which $(225) million reflects amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Cash
flow hedges and net investment hedges in foreign operations

We use
interest rate, currency exchange and commodity derivatives to reduce the
variability of expected future cash flows associated with variable rate
borrowings and commercial purchase and sale transactions, including commodities.
For derivatives that are designated in a cash flow hedging relationship, the
effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is reported as a
component of AOCI and reclassified into earnings contemporaneously with the
earnings effects of the hedged transaction. Earnings effects of the derivative
and the hedged item are reported in the same caption in the Statement of
Earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness and components of changes in fair value of the
derivative that are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized
in earnings each reporting period.

We use
currency exchange derivatives to protect our net investments in global
operations conducted in non-U.S. dollar currencies. For derivatives that are
designated as hedges of net investment in a foreign operation, we assess
effectiveness based on changes in spot currency exchange rates. Changes in spot
rates on the derivative are recorded as a component of AOCI until such time as
the foreign entity is substantially liquidated or sold. The change in fair value
of the forward points, which reflects the interest rate differential between the
two countries on the derivative, are excluded from the effectiveness assessment
and are recorded currently in earnings.

The
following table provides information about the amounts recorded in the other
comprehensive income component within shareowners’ equity at December 31, 2009,
as well as the amounts recorded in each caption in the Statement of Earnings
when derivative amounts are reclassified out of other comprehensive income
related to our cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.

(151)

Of the total pre-tax amount recorded in AOCI, $2,587 million
related to cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions of which we expect to
transfer $1,402 million to earnings as an expense in the next 12 months
contemporaneously with the earnings effects of the related forecasted
transactions. In 2009, we recognized insignificant gains and losses related to
hedged forecasted transactions and firm commitments that did not occur by the
end of the originally specified period. At December 31, 2009, the maximum term
of derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions was 26 years and
related to hedges of anticipated interest payments associated with external
debt.

For cash
flow hedges, the amount of ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship and
amount of the changes in fair value of the derivative that are not included in
the measurement of ineffectiveness are both reflected in earnings each reporting
period. These amounts totaled $49 million, of which $(18) million represents
amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for the year ended
December 31, 2009, and primarily appear in "GECS revenues from services."
Ineffectiveness from net investment hedges was $(899) million for the year ended
December 31, 2009, which primarily related to changes in value of the forward
points. These amounts appear in the “Interest and other financial charges”
caption in the Statement of Earnings.

Free-standing
derivatives

Changes
in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are recorded
in earnings each period. As discussed above, these derivatives are typically
entered into as economic hedges of changes in interest rates, currency exchange
rates, commodity prices and other risks. Gains or losses related to the
derivative are recorded in predefined captions in the Statement of Earnings,
typically “GECS revenues from services” or “Other income,” based on our
accounting policy. In general, the earnings effects of the item that represent
the economic risk exposure are recorded in the same caption as the derivative.
Gains for 2009 on derivatives not designated as hedges were $1,018 million and
related to interest rate contracts of $208 million, currency exchange contracts
of $499 million, and commodity derivatives and other of $311 million. The vast
majority of the $1,018 million was offset by the earnings effects from the
underlying items that were economically hedged.

(152)

Counterparty credit risk

Fair
values of our derivatives can change significantly from period to period based
on, among other factors, market movements and changes in our
positions.  Accordingly, we actively monitor these exposures and take
appropriate actions in response.  We manage counterparty credit risk
(the risk that counterparties will default and not make payments to us according
to the terms of our standard master agreements) on an individual counterparty
basis. Where we have agreed to netting of derivative exposures with a
counterparty, we offset our exposures with that counterparty and apply the value
of collateral posted to us to determine the exposure. When net exposure to a
counterparty, based on the current market values of agreements and collateral,
exceeds credit exposure limits (see following table), we typically take action
to reduce such exposures. These actions may include prohibiting additional
transactions with the counterparty, requiring additional collateral from the
counterparty (as described below) and terminating or restructuring
transactions.

As
discussed above, we have provisions in certain of our master agreements that
require counterparties to post collateral (typically, cash or U.S. Treasuries)
when our receivable due from the counterparty, measured at current market value,
exceeds a specified limit. At December 31, 2009, our exposure to counterparties,
net of collateral we hold, was $1,196 million.  The fair value of such
collateral was $8,454 million, of which $2,387 million was cash and $6,067
million was in the form of securities held by a custodian for our benefit. Under
certain of these same agreements, we post collateral to our counterparties for
our derivative obligations, the fair value of which was $1,855 million at
December 31, 2009.

Following
is GECS policy relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure
limits to counterparties.

(a)

Counterparties
      that have an obligation to provide collateral to cover credit exposure in
      accordance with a credit support agreement typically have a minimum A3/A-
      rating.

(a)

For
      derivatives with exposures less than one year, counterparties are
      permitted to have unsecured exposure up to $150 million with a minimum
      rating of A-1/P-1. Exposure to a counterparty is determined net of
      collateral.

Additionally,
our standard master agreements typically contain mutual downgrade provisions
that provide the ability of each party to require termination if the long-term
credit rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of these
master agreements, each party also has the ability to require termination if the
short-term rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-1/P-1. The net amount
relating to our derivative liability of $3,657 million subject to these
provisions, after consideration of collateral posted by us, was $1,281 million
at December 31, 2009.

(153)

Support
of customer derivatives

We do
not sell protection under credit default swaps; however, as part of our risk
management services, we provide certain support agreements to third-party
financial institutions providing plain vanilla interest rate derivatives to our
customers in connection with variable rate loans we have extended to them. The
underwriting risk to our customers inherent in these arrangements, together with
the related loans, is essentially similar to that of a fixed rate loan. Under
these arrangements, the customer's obligation to us is secured, usually by the
asset being purchased or financed, or by other assets of the customer. In
addition, these arrangements are underwritten to provide for collateral value
that exceeds the combination of the loan amount and the initial expected future
exposure of the derivative. These support arrangements mature on the same date
as the related financing arrangements or transactions and are across a broad
spectrum of diversified industries and companies. The fair value of such support
agreements was $24 million at December 31, 2009. Because we are supporting the
performance of the customer under these arrangements, our exposure to loss at
any point in time is limited to the fair value of the customer’s derivative
contracts that are in a liability position. The aggregate fair value of customer
derivative contracts in a liability position at December 31, 2009, was $260
million before consideration of any offsetting effect of collateral. At December
31, 2009, collateral value was sufficient to cover the loan amount and the fair
value of the customer’s derivative, in the event we had been called upon to
perform under the derivative. If we assumed that, on January 1, 2010, interest
rates moved unfavorably by 100 basis points across the yield curve (a “parallel
shift” in that curve), the effect on the fair value of such contracts, without
considering any potential offset of the underlying collateral, would have been
an increase of $120 million. Given our underwriting criteria, we believe that
the likelihood that we will be required to perform under these arrangements is
remote.

NOTE 23. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We
securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in
the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns. The
securitization transactions we engage in are similar to those used by many
financial institutions. Beyond improving returns, these securitization
transactions serve as alternative funding sources for a variety of diversified
lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both
GE-supported and third-party Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) to execute
off-balance sheet securitization transactions funded in the commercial paper and
term markets. The largest single category of VIEs that we are involved with are
Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs), which have specific characteristics
that exclude them from the scope of consolidation standards. Investors in these
entities only have recourse to the assets owned by the entity and not to our
general credit, unless noted below. We do not have implicit support arrangements
with any VIE or QSPE. We did not provide non-contractual support for previously
transferred financing receivables to any VIE or QSPE in 2009 or
2008.

Variable
Interest Entities

When
evaluating whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, and must therefore
consolidate the entity, we perform a qualitative analysis that considers the
design of the VIE, the nature of our involvement and the variable interests held
by other parties. If that evaluation is inconclusive as to which party absorbs a
majority of the entity’s expected losses or residual returns, a quantitative
analysis is performed to determine who is the primary beneficiary.

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17 amendments to ASC 860,

Transfers and Servicing

, and
ASC 810,

Consolidation

,
respectively, which are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs. Upon adoption we will record assets and
liabilities of these entities at carrying amounts consistent with what they
would have been if they had always been consolidated, which will require the
reversal of a portion of previously recognized securitization gains as a
cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.

(154)

Consolidated
Variable Interest Entities

On July
1, 2003 and January 1, 2004, we were required, as a result of amendments to U.S.
GAAP, to consolidate certain VIEs with aggregate assets and liabilities of $54.0
billion and $52.6 billion respectively, which are further described below. At
December 31, 2009, assets and liabilities of those VIEs, and additional VIEs
consolidated as a result of subsequent acquisitions of financial companies,
totaled $16,994 million and $15,231 million, respectively (at December 31, 2008,
assets and liabilities were $26,865 million and $21,428 million,
respectively).

The
consolidated VIEs included in our financial statements include the
following:

·

Securitization
      entities that hold financing receivables and other financial assets. Since
      they were consolidated in 2003, these assets have continued to run off;
      totaled $2,608 million at December 31, 2009; and are primarily included in
      Note 6 ($4,000 million in 2008). There has been no significant difference
      between the performance of these financing receivables and our on-book
      receivables on a blended basis. The liabilities of these securitization
      entities, which consist primarily of commercial paper, totaled $2,504
      million at December 31, 2009, and are included in Note 10 ($3,868 million
      in 2008). Contractually the cash flows from these financing receivables
      must first be used to pay down outstanding commercial paper and interest
      thereon as well as other expenses of the entity. Excess cash flows are
      available to GE. The creditors of these entities have no claim on the
      other assets of GE.

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital or these entities were reduced
      below A–1/P–1, we would be required to provide substitute liquidity for
      those entities or provide funds to retire the outstanding commercial
      paper. The maximum net amount that we would be required to provide in the
      event of such a downgrade is determined by contract, and totaled $2,497
      million at December 31, 2009. The borrowings of these entities are
      reflected in our Statement of Financial
  Position.

·

Trinity,
      a group of sponsored special purpose entities, holds investment
      securities, the majority of which are investment grade, funded by the
      issuance of guaranteed investment contracts. At December 31, 2009, these
      entities held $6,629 million of investment securities, included in Note 3,
      and $716 million of cash and other assets ($8,190 million and $1,001
      million, respectively, at December 31, 2008). The associated guaranteed
      investment contract liabilities, included in Note 11, were $8,310 million
      and $10,828 million at the end of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

If
      the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or
      its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GE Capital would
      be required to provide approximately $2,383 million to such entities as of
      December 31, 2009 pursuant to letters of credit issued by GE Capital. To
      the extent that the entities’ liabilities exceed the ultimate value of the
      proceeds from the sale of their assets and the amount drawn under the
      letters of credit, GE Capital could be required to provide such excess
      amount. As the borrowings of these entities are already reflected in our
      consolidated Statement of Financial Position, there would be no change in
      our debt if this were to occur. As of December 31, 2009, the value of
      these entities’ liabilities was $8,519 million and the fair value of their
      assets was $7,345 million (which included unrealized losses on investment
      securities of $1,448 million). With respect to these investment
      securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their
      individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability
      to hold all such debt securities until
maturity.

The
remaining assets ($7,040 million) and liabilities ($4,208 million) of
consolidated VIEs are primarily the result of transactions by acquired entities;
asset-backed financing involving commercial real estate and equipment collateral
and on-balance sheet securitizations by GE. We have no recourse arrangements
with these entities.

(155)

Unconsolidated
Variable Interest Entities

Our
involvement with unconsolidated VIEs consists of the following activities:
assisting in the formation and financing of an entity, providing recourse and/or
liquidity support, servicing the assets and receiving variable fees for services
provided. The classification in our financial statements of our variable
interests in these entities depends on the nature of the entity. As described
below, our retained interests in securitization-related VIEs and QSPEs is
reported in financing receivables or investment securities depending on its
legal form. Variable interests in partnerships and corporate entities would be
classified as either equity method or cost method investments.

In the
ordinary course of business, we make investments in entities in which we are not
the primary beneficiary, but may hold a variable interest such as limited
partner equity interests or mezzanine debt investment. These investments totaled
$9,680 million at year-end 2009 and are classified in two captions in our
financial statements: “All other assets” for investments accounted for under the
equity method, and “GECS financing receivables” for debt financing provided to
these entities. At December 31, 2009, “All other assets” totaled $8,911 million
($2,919 million at December 31, 2008) and financing receivables, included in
Note 6, totaled $769 million ($1,045 million at December 31, 2008). In addition
to our existing investments, we have contractual obligations to fund additional
investments in the unconsolidated VIEs of $1,396 million ($1,159 million at
December 31, 2008). Together, these represent our maximum exposure to loss if
the assets of the unconsolidated VIEs were to have no value.

The
largest unconsolidated VIE with which we are involved is PTL, which is a rental
truck leasing joint venture. The total consolidated assets and liabilities of
PTL at December 31, 2008, were $7,444 million and $1,339 million,
respectively.  In the first quarter of 2009, we sold a 1% limited
partnership interest in PTL, a previously consolidated VIE, to Penske Truck
Leasing Corporation, the general partner of PTL, whose majority shareowner is a
member of GE’s Board of Directors. The disposition of the shares, coupled with
our resulting minority position on the PTL advisory committee and related
changes in our contractual rights, resulted in the deconsolidation of PTL. We
recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $296 million, including a gain on the
remeasurement of our retained investment of $189 million. The measurement of the
fair value of our retained investment in PTL was based on a methodology that
incorporated both discounted cash flow information and market data. In applying
this methodology, we utilized different sources of information, including actual
operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market
observable pricing multiples of similar businesses. The resulting fair value
reflected our position as a noncontrolling shareowner at the conclusion of the
transaction. At December 31, 2009, our remaining investment in PTL of $5,751
million comprised a 49.9% partnership interest of $923 million and loans and
advances of $4,828 million.

Other
than those entities described above, we also hold passive investments in RMBS,
CMBS and asset-backed securities issued by entities that may be either VIEs or
QSPEs. Such investments were, by design, investment grade at issuance and held
by a diverse group of investors. As we have no formal involvement in such
entities beyond our investment, we believe that the likelihood is remote that we
would be required to consolidate them. Further information about such
investments is provided in Note 3.

Securitization
Activities

We
transfer assets to QSPEs in the ordinary course of business as part of our
ongoing securitization activities. In our securitization transactions, we
transfer assets to a QSPE and receive a combination of cash and retained
interests in the assets transferred. The QSPE sells beneficial interests in the
assets transferred to third-party investors, to fund the purchase of the
assets.

The
financing receivables in our QSPEs have similar risks and characteristics to our
on-book financing receivables and were underwritten to the same standard.
Accordingly, the performance of these assets has been similar to our on-book
financing receivables; however, the blended performance of the pools of
receivables in our QSPEs reflects the eligibility screening requirements that we
apply to determine which receivables are selected for sale. Therefore, the
blended performance can differ from the on-book performance.

(156)

When we
securitize financing receivables we retain interests in the transferred
receivables in two forms: a seller’s interest in the assets of the QSPE, which
we classify as financing receivables, and subordinated interests in the assets
of the QSPE, which we classify as investment securities. In certain credit card
receivables trusts, we are required to maintain minimum free equity
(subordinated interest) of 4% or 7% depending on the credit rating of GE
Capital.

Financing
receivables transferred to securitization entities that remained outstanding and
our retained interests in those financing receivables at December 31, 2009 and
2008 follows.

(a)

Included
      inventory floorplan receivables.

(b)

In
      certain transactions entered into prior to December 31, 2004, we provided
      contractual credit and liquidity support to third parties who purchased
      debt in the QSPEs. We have not entered into additional arrangements since
      that date. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, liquidity support totaled $2,084
      million and $2,143 million, respectively. Credit support totaled $2,088
      million and $2,164 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
      respectively.

(c)

As
      permitted by the terms of the applicable trust documents, in the second
      and third quarters of 2009, we transferred $268 million of floorplan
      financing receivables to the GE Dealer Floorplan Master Note Trust and
      $328 million of credit card receivables to the GE Capital Credit Card
      Master Note Trust in exchange for additional subordinated interests. These
      actions had the effect of maintaining the AAA ratings of certain
      securities issued by these
entities.

(d)

Uncertificated
      seller’s interests.

Retained Interests in Securitization
Transactions

When we
transfer financing receivables, we determine the fair value of retained
interests received as part of the securitization transaction. Further
information about how fair value is determined is presented in Note 21. Retained
interests in securitized receivables that are classified as investment
securities are reported at fair value in each reporting period. These assets
decrease as cash is received on the underlying financing receivables. Retained
interests classified as financing receivables are accounted for in a similar
manner to our on-book financing receivables.

(157)

Key
assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests classified as
investment securities and the sensitivity of the current fair value to changes
in those assumptions related to all outstanding retained interests at December
31, 2009 and 2008 follow.

(a)

Based
      on weighted averages.

(b)

Represented
      a payment rate on credit card receivables, inventory financing receivables
      (included within equipment) and trade receivables (included within other
      assets).

(158)

Activity
related to retained interests classified as investment securities in our
consolidated financial statements follows.

Derivative Activities

In
connection with some securitization transactions, the QSPEs use derivatives to
manage interest rate risk between the assets they own and liabilities they
issue. In such instances, at the inception of the transaction, the QSPE will
enter into a derivative that generally requires the payment of a fixed rate of
interest to a counterparty in exchange for a floating rate of interest in order
to eliminate interest rate, and in certain instances, payment speed volatility.
In some cases, a GE entity is the counterparty to a QSPE's derivative; the fair
value of such derivatives was a net asset of $454 million and $752 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In such cases, a second derivative is
executed with a third party to minimize or eliminate the exposure created by the
first derivative.

Servicing Activities

As part
of a securitization transaction, we may provide servicing in exchange for a
market-based fee that is determined on principal balances. Where the fee does
not represent market-based compensation for these services, a servicing asset or
liability is recorded, as appropriate. The fair value of the servicing asset or
liability is subject to credit, prepayment and interest rate risk. Servicing
assets and liabilities are amortized to earnings in proportion to and over the
period of servicing activity. The amount of our servicing assets and liabilities
was insignificant at December 31, 2009 and 2008. We received servicing fees from
QSPEs of $608 million, $641 million and $566 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

When we
provide servicing we are contractually permitted to commingle cash collected
from customers on financing receivables sold to investors with our own cash
prior to payment to a QSPE provided our credit rating does not fall below levels
specified in each of our securitization agreements. Based on our current credit
rating we do not anticipate any restriction to commingling cash under these
arrangements. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, accounts payable included $5,007
million and $4,446 million, respectively, representing obligations to QSPEs for
collections received in our capacity as servicer from obligors of the
QSPEs.

Included
in other GECS receivables at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $3,526 million and
$2,346 million, respectively, relating to amounts owed by QSPEs to GE,
principally for the purchase of financial assets.

NOTE 24. COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

Commitments

In our
Aviation business of Technology Infrastructure, we had committed to provide
financial assistance on $1,151 million of future customer acquisitions of
aircraft equipped with our engines, including commitments made to airlines in
2009 for future sales under our GE90 and GEnx engine campaigns. The GECAS
business of Capital Finance had placed multiple-year orders for various Boeing,
Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $12,603 million and
secondary orders with airlines for used aircraft of approximately $2,165 million
at December 31, 2009.

(159)

At
December 31, 2009, NBC Universal had commitments to acquire film and television
programming, including U.S. television rights to future Olympic Games and
National Football League games, contractual commitments under various creative
talent arrangements and various other arrangements of $8,860 million,
substantially all of which requires payments through 2015.

Product
Warranties

We
provide for estimated product warranty expenses when we sell the related
products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best
available information – mostly historical claims experience – claims costs
may differ from amounts provided. An analysis of changes in the liability for
product warranties follows.

(a)

Primarily
      related to Technology Infrastructure and Energy
      Infrastructure.

Guarantees

At
December 31, 2009, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements
beyond those provided on behalf of QSPEs and VIEs. See Note 23.

·

Credit Support.

We have
      provided $7,597 million of credit support on behalf of certain customers
      or associated companies, predominantly joint ventures and partnerships,
      using arrangements such as standby letters of credit and performance
      guarantees. These arrangements enable these customers and associated
      companies to execute transactions or obtain desired financing arrangements
      with third parties. Should the customer or associated company fail to
      perform under the terms of the transaction or financing arrangement, we
      would be required to perform on their behalf. Under most such
      arrangements, our guarantee is secured, usually by the asset being
      purchased or financed, or possibly by certain other assets of the customer
      or associated company. The length of these credit support arrangements
      parallels the length of the related financing arrangements or
      transactions. The liability for such credit support was $43 million for
      December 31, 2009.

·

Indemnification
      Agreements.

These are agreements that require us to fund up to $353
      million under residual value guarantees on a variety of leased equipment.
      Under most of our residual value guarantees, our commitment is secured by
      the leased asset at December 31, 2009. The liability for these
      indemnification agreements was $15 million at December 31, 2009. We had
      $1,532 million of other indemnification commitments arising primarily from
      sales of businesses or assets.

(160)

·

Contingent Consideration.

These are agreements to provide additional consideration in a
      business combination to the seller if contractually specified conditions
      related to the acquired entity are achieved. At December 31, 2009, we had
      total maximum exposure, excluding GE Money Japan, for future estimated
      payments of $58 million, of which none was earned and
    payable.

In
      connection with the sale of GE Money Japan, we reduced the proceeds on the
      sale for estimated interest refund claims in excess of the statutory
      interest rate. Proceeds from the sale may be increased or decreased based
      on the actual claims experienced in accordance with terms specified in the
      agreement, and will not be adjusted unless total claims as calculated
      under the terms of the agreement exceed approximately $3,000 million.
      During the second quarter of 2009, we accrued $132 million, which
      represents the amount by which we expect claims to exceed those levels and
      is based on our historical and recent claims experience and the estimated
      future requests, taking into consideration the ability and likelihood of
      customers to make claims and other industry risk factors. Uncertainties
      around the status of laws and regulations and lack of certain information
      related to the individual customers make it difficult to develop a
      meaningful estimate of the aggregate possible claims exposure. We will
      continue to review our estimated exposure quarterly, and make adjustments
      when required.

Our
guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these
guarantees considering economic, liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty.
We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a
significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. We record liabilities for guarantees at estimated fair value,
generally the amount of the premium received, or if we do not receive a premium,
the amount based on appraisal, observed market values or discounted cash flows.
Any associated expected recoveries from third parties are recorded as other
receivables, not netted against the liabilities.

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the likelihood that we will be called upon to
perform on these guarantees is remote.

NOTE 25. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION

Changes
in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and dispositions of
principal businesses.

Amounts
reported in the “Payments for principal businesses purchased” line in the
Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and included debt assumed and
immediately repaid in acquisitions.

Amounts
reported in the “All other operating activities” line in the Statement of Cash
Flows consists primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and
deferrals of costs and expenses, adjustments for gains and losses on assets and
adjustments to assets. In 2009, GECS had non-cash transactions related to
foreclosed properties and repossessed assets totaling $1,364 million. In 2008,
GE received $300 million (12.7 million shares) worth of its shares in connection
with the disposition of NBC Universal’s 57% interest in the Sundance Channel.
There were no significant non-cash transactions in 2007.

(161)

Certain
supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown
below.

(162)

NOTE 26. INTERCOMPANY TRANSACTIONS

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs.

These
intercompany transactions are reported in the GE and GECS columns of our
financial statements, but are eliminated in deriving our consolidated financial
statements. Effects of these eliminations on our consolidated cash flows from
operating, investing and financing activities include the following. Net
decrease (increase) in GE customer receivables sold to GECS of $(39) million,
$90 million and $(255) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating and investing activities at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Capital contributions from GE to GECS of $9,500 million and $5,500
million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from investing and financing
activities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no such
capital contributions at December 31, 2007. GECS dividends to GE of $2,351
million and $7,291 million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating and financing activities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
There were no such dividends at December 31, 2009. Eliminations of intercompany
borrowings (includes GE investment in GECS short-term borrowings, such as
commercial paper) of $715 million, $(471) million and $2,049 million have been
eliminated from financing activities at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Other reclassifications and eliminations of $623 million, $(188)
million, and $(828) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating activities and $(699) million, $(320) million and $1,202 million have
been eliminated from consolidated cash from investing activities at December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

As
identified in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March 31, 2009, in the GE and GECS columns of our Statement of Cash Flows for
the year ended December 31, 2008, we properly reported a $5,500 million capital
contribution from GE to GECS as an investing use of cash by GE (included in the
caption “All other investing activities”) and a financing source of cash to GECS
(included in the caption “All other financing activities”). In our 2008 Form
10-K, this intercompany transaction was not eliminated in deriving our
consolidated cash flows. As a result, our consolidated cash used for investing
activities and our consolidated cash from financing activities were both
overstated by the amount of the capital contribution. This item had no effect on
our consolidated cash from operating activities or total consolidated cash
flows, nor did it affect our financial position or results of operations. We
have corrected this immaterial item in our current report on Form
10-K.

NOTE 27. OPERATING SEGMENTS

Basis
for presentation

Our
operating businesses are organized based on the nature of markets and customers.
Segment accounting policies are the same as described in Note 1. Segment results
for our financial services businesses reflect the discrete tax effect of
transactions, but the intraperiod tax allocation is reflected outside of the
segment unless otherwise noted in segment results.

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs.

(163)

Effective
January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer &
Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization,
we created a new segment called Home & Business Solutions that includes the
Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer & Industrial
segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business
of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology
Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous
Consumer & Industrial segment and the Sensing & Inspection Technologies
and Digital Energy businesses of Enterprise Solutions are now part of the Energy
business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business of
Enterprise Solutions will be reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations
pending its expected sale. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance
segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of
General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial
Services business, previously reported in GECAS, will be included in CLL and our
Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will be included in
CLL.

Results
for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our
business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization described
above.

A
description of our operating segments as of December 31, 2009, can be found
below, and details of segment profit by operating segment can be found in the
Summary of Operating Segments table in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Energy Infrastructure

Power
plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and
maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative
turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services,
including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long-term
maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial
customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar
technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical
treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and
desalination processes.

The Oil
& Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems
including blowout preventors, equipment for floating production platforms,
compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national,
international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment
overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection and integrity services, remote
monitoring and diagnostic, and contractual service agreements.

Technology Infrastructure

Aviation
products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment,
replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of
commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, includ­ing
fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine appli­cations; and
for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to
airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies.

Healthcare
products include diagnostic imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR),
computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray,
nuclear imaging and ultrasound. Healthcare manufactured technologies include
patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, bone densitometry, anesthesiology,
and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services,
including equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer
productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in
medical scanning procedures, products used in the purification of
biopharmaceuticals, and tools for pro­tein and cellular analysis for
pharmaceutical and academic research. Products and services are sold worldwide
to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
and to the life science research market.

Transportation
products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit
propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles, gearing
technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power
generation, and railway signaling and office systems.

(164)

Enterprise
Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure,
moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection
equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.
Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it
provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality
products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks
and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant
automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator
interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions.
Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential,
commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and
sold in global markets.

NBC Universal

Principal
businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and
distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations,
operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world, operation of
theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the
Internet.

Capital Finance

CLL
products include loans, leases and other financial services to customers,
includ­ing manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of
equipment and major capital assets. These assets include indus­trial-related
facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in
many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation,
media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries.

Consumer
offers a range of financial products including private-label credit cards;
personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small
and medium enterprise lending on a global basis.

Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and
finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and
renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels,
parking facilities and industrial properties.

Energy
Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy and water
industries including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing,
product finance, and broad-based commercial finance.

GECAS
provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners,
lend­ers and investors, including leases, and secured loans on commercial
passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing
services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt
financing.

Consumer & Industrial

Products
include major appliances and related services for products such as
refrig­erators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers,
clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air condition­ers and
residential water system products. These products are distributed both to retail
outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to
building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products
include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light-emitting
diodes. Electrical equipment and control products include lighting and power
panels, switchgear, and circuit breakers. Products and services are sold in
North America and in global markets under various GE and private-label
brands.

(165)

(a)

Revenues of GE businesses include
      income from sales of goods and services to customers and other
      income.

(b)

Sales from one component to
      another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling
      prices.

Revenues
from customers located in the United States were $72,499 million, $85,301
million and $86,247 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from
customers located outside the United States were $84,284 million, $97,214
million and $86,241 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

(a)

Assets of discontinued operations
      are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods
      presented.

(b)

Total
      assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, Capital
      Finance and Consumer & Industrial operating segments at December 31,
      2009, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $622
      million, $638 million, $25,374 million and $402 million, respectively.
      Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed
      approximately $1 million, $263 million, $443 million, $1,059 million and
      $(40) million to segment pre-tax income of Energy Infrastructure,
      Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer
      & Industrial operating segments, respectively, for the year ended
      December 31, 2009. Aggregate summarized financial information for
      significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest
      included: total assets of $149,889 million, primarily financing
      receivables of $82,956 million; total liabilities of $126,005 million,
      primarily bank deposits of $69,573 million; revenues totaling $28,135
      million; and net earnings totaling $4,539
  million.

(c)

Additions
      to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal
      businesses purchased.

(166)

(a)

Included amounts for Energy
      Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer
      & Industrial for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest
      and other financial charges and income
  taxes.

Property,
plant and equipment – net associated with operations based in the United States
were $19,798 million, $27,667 million and $27,188 million at year-end 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. Property, plant and equipment – net associated with
operations based outside the United States were $49,414 million, $50,863 million
and $50,700 million at year-end 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

NOTE 28. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services
less costs of goods and services sold.

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing
operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a
result, the sum of each quarter’s per-share amount may not equal the total
per-share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per-share amounts from
continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total
per-share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters.

(167)

Item
9.

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

Not
applicable.

Item
9A. Controls and Procedures

.

Under
the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we
evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) no change in
internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our
independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.

Item
9B.

Other Information.

Not
applicable.

Part
III

Item
10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant (As of February 1, 2010)

(168)

All
Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term
which continues until the Board meeting immediately preceding the next annual
statutory meeting of shareowners, and thereafter are elected for one-year terms
or until their successors have been elected. All Executive Officers have been
executives of General Electric Company for the last five years except for Ms.
Miller. Prior to joining GE in April 2008, Ms. Miller served as the Senior Vice
President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Wellpoint, Inc. Prior to
joining Wellpoint in August 2007, Ms. Miller served as a partner with
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. From May 2004 to August 2005, she was Vice
President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at Genworth
Financial (formerly GE Financial Assurance) having joined in 2003 as
Controller.

The
remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by reference to
“Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance” and “Board of Directors and
Committees” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 Annual Meeting of
Shareowners to be held April 28, 2010, which will be filed within 120 days of
the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the 2010 Proxy
Statement).

Item
11.

Executive Compensation.

Incorporated
by reference to “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee
Report,” “2009 Summary Compensation Table,” “2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards,”
“2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,” “2009 Option Exercises and
Stock Vested,” “2009 Pension Benefits,” “2009 Nonqualified Deferred
Compensation,” “Potential Payments Upon Termination” and “2009 Non-management
Directors’ Compensation” in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

Item
12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters.

Incorporated
by reference to “Information on Stock Ownership” in the 2010 Proxy
Statement.

The
remaining information called for by this item relating to “Securities Authorized
for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans” is provided in Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Item
13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.

Incorporated
by reference to “Related Person Transactions” and “Corporate Governance” in the
2010 Proxy Statement.

Item
14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services.

Incorporated
by reference to “Independent Auditor” in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

(169)

Part
IV

Item
15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.

(a)1.
Financial Statements

Included
in Part II of this report:

Statement
of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners’ Equity for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007

Statement
of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 and 2008

Statement
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

Management’s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Other
financial information:

Summary
of Operating Segments

Notes to
consolidated financial statements

Operating
segment information

Geographic
segment information

Operations
by quarter (unaudited)

(a)2.
Financial Statement Schedules

The
schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04 have been omitted because they are not
applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.

(a)3.
Exhibit Index

(170)

(171)

(172)

(173)

(174)

Signatures

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, and in the capacities indicated, thereunto duly authorized in the
Town of Fairfield and State of Connecticut on the 19

th

day
of February 2010.

(175)

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

(176)