
10-K405
FORM  10-K405



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                      ----------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  [X]          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                      OR
           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  [ ]          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
             For the transition period from _________ to _________

                         Commission file number 1-6075

                           UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


            Utah                                              13-2626465
(State or other jurisdiction                               (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

        1717 MAIN STREET
          SUITE 5900                                           75201-4605
          DALLAS, TX                                           (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code           (214) 743-5600

                      ___________________________________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange on
           Title of each class                            which registered
- ----------------------------------------           -----------------------------
Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)           New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

                      ___________________________________

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

        Yes   X      No ______
            -----             

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X].

                      ___________________________________

     As of February 26, 1999 the aggregate market value of the registrant's
Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York Stock Exchange closing
price) was approximately $10,973,121,951.

     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock as of
February 26, 1999 was 247,579,048.

     Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference into this
Report: (1) registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1998 (Parts I, II and IV); and (2) registrant's definitive Proxy
Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 16, 1999
(Part III).

 
                                    PART I
                                    ------


ITEM 1. BUSINESS AND ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
        --------             ----------

DISCUSSION OF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------

     Union Pacific Corporation (UPC, the Corporation or the Company),
incorporated in Utah in 1969, consists of two major transportation segments,
rail and trucking, operating principally in the United States.

     The Corporation's largest segment is Union Pacific Railroad Company (UPRR),
including as of May 1, 1995, Chicago and North Western Transportation Company
(CNW), and as of October 1, 1996, Southern Pacific Rail Corporation (Southern
Pacific or SP) (collectively the Railroad).  The Railroad is a Class I railroad
that operates the largest rail system in the United States. The Corporation
finalized the integration of CNW in 1996 and expects to complete the integration
of the operations of Southern Pacific over the next three years.

     The Corporation's other major line of business is truck transportation.
Overnite Transportation Company (Overnite or OTC), a major interstate trucking
company specializing in less-than-truckload (LTL) shipments, serves all 50
states and portions of Canada and Mexico through 165 service centers located
throughout the United States.

CORPORATE REORGANIZATION

In 1998, UPC continued implementing its strategy of refocusing on its core rail
transportation business. The implementation of this strategy began with the 1994
sale of USPCI, Inc., the Corporation's waste-management business. Since then,
the Corporation disposed of its oil and gas operations, sold its logistics
business and attempted to sell its trucking operations. At the same time, the
Corporation invested heavily in rail assets creating the largest rail system in
the United States. The Corporation's rail investments included the 1995 purchase
of CNW the nation's eighth largest railroad, the 1996 acquisition of Southern
Pacific the country's sixth largest railroad, and the 1997 investment in the
Pacific-North and Chihuahua Pacific lines in Mexico.

Key strategic transactions in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:

OVERNITE DIVESTITURE - In May 1998, the Corporation's Board of Directors
approved a formal plan to divest UPC's investment in Overnite through an initial
public offering (IPO). UPC recorded a $262 million after-tax loss from
discontinued operations in the second quarter of 1998 to provide for the
expected loss from the sale of Overnite (see Note 1 to the Corporation's
consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated by reference in Item 8
of this Report on Form 10-K (the financial statements)). During the second half
of 1998, UPC attempted to sell Overnite. However, market conditions deteriorated
in the third quarter of 1998 to the point that UPC decided not to consummate the
IPO. UPC also pursued a sale of OTC to strategic buyers. Based upon market
conditions, a divestiture of OTC within the one-year time frame prescribed by
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for classification 


 
as discontinued operations was no longer reasonably assured. As a result, in the
fourth quarter of 1998, the Corporation reclassified Overnite's results to
continuing operations and reversed the $262 million loss from discontinued
operations. In the fourth quarter of 1998, the Corporation also recorded a $547
million pre-and after-tax charge to reflect an impairment of Overnite's goodwill
that was recorded in continuing operations. Previously reported results for the
second and third quarters of 1998 have been restated to reflect Overnite's
earnings in continuing operations.

SKYWAY - In November 1998, the Corporation completed the sale of Skyway Freight
Systems, Inc. (Skyway), a wholly-owned subsidiary. Skyway provided contract
logistics and supply chain management services. The proceeds were used to repay
outstanding debt. The sale of Skyway generated a net, after-tax loss of $50
million, of which $40 million was recognized in the fourth quarter of 1997 (see
Notes 3 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements).

MEXICAN RAILWAY CONCESSION - During 1997, the Corporation's rail subsidiary,
UPRR, and a consortium of partners were granted a 50-year concession to operate
the Pacific-North and Chihuahua Pacific lines in Mexico and a 25% stake in the
Mexico City Terminal Company at a price of $525 million. The Railroad holds a
13% ownership share and has accounted for its interest on the equity method. The
consortium assumed operational control of both lines in 1998. In January 1999,
the Corporation signed a letter of intent to acquire an additional 13% ownership
interest.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC - UPC consummated the acquisition of Southern Pacific in
September 1996. SP was acquired for $4.1 billion (60% of the outstanding
Southern Pacific common shares were converted into UPC common stock, and the
remaining 40% of the outstanding shares were acquired for cash). UPC initially
funded the cash portion of the acquisition with credit facility borrowings, all
of which have been subsequently refinanced with other borrowings. The
acquisition of Southern Pacific has been accounted for using the purchase
method. During 1998, UPC continued its integration of SP's rail operations. This
process is expected to be completed over the next three years (see Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements).

RESOURCES - In July 1995, the Corporation's Board of Directors approved a formal
plan to divest UPC's natural resources business, Union Pacific Resources Group
Inc. (Resources), through an IPO by Resources, followed by a pro-rata
distribution of Resources shares owned by the Corporation to its stockholders
(the Spin-Off). The IPO of 42.5 million Resources shares at $21.00 per share was
completed in October 1995, and in September 1996, the Corporation's Board of
Directors declared a special dividend consisting of the shares of Resources
common stock owned by UPC. Resources' results have been reported as discontinued
operations in the Corporation's 1996 financial statements.


 
SERVICE ISSUES

The Corporation's results in 1998 continued to be adversely affected by the
congestion on the Railroad's system that began in the third quarter of 1997.
However, the Railroad's service recovery efforts resulted in significant
improvements in operating and financial results beginning in the latter half of
the year.

SERVICE RECOVERY - Congestion in and around Houston and the coastal areas of
Texas and Louisiana (the Gulf Coast region) began in the third quarter of 1997.
System congestion started in the Gulf Coast region and spread throughout the
system during the third and fourth quarters of 1997, and continued to adversely
affect the Railroad's operations and financial results in 1998. In response to
its operational difficulties, the Railroad adopted certain measures beginning in
1997 designed to alleviate the congestion problems and improve the efficiency
and flexibility of rail operations. To ease system congestion, the Railroad
focused on reducing the number of cars on the system and restoring system
velocity by hiring additional train and engine employees, accelerating and
expanding locomotive purchases and leases, improving management of train crews,
and using outside carriers for haulage and train switching in congested areas.
In 1998, these efforts were supplemented by the institution of directional
running in parts of the Gulf Coast region, establishment of a joint dispatching
center in Texas, and extensive track maintenance and capacity expansion efforts
in UPRR's Central Corridor and southern tier. While in some cases the Railroad's
actions temporarily slowed service, they have resulted in improved system
velocity. Also in 1998, UPRR instituted several key initiatives including a new
long-term strategy to improve the effectiveness of the organization. This effort
is focused on culture change, business process improvement and decentralization,
each of which is designed to improve customer satisfaction, increase employee
involvement and improve operational efficiency and financial results. The
combination of all of the steps described above (the Service Recovery Process)
has allowed the Railroad to alleviate congestion and improve operations
throughout the UPRR system. However, despite these improvements, the Railroad's
operations and financial results were significantly impacted by congestion in
1998.

WEATHER AND OTHER CONGESTION ISSUES - During 1998, service in the Railroad's
Central Corridor between Chicago and Utah was slowed by track maintenance and
capacity expansion work that is expected to be completed during 1999. UPRR also
experienced congestion on its lines in northern California, in the Los Angeles
Basin and on the Sunset Route west of El Paso, Texas. This was caused in part by
two derailments that occurred in July 1998, tight crew supply and limited track
capacity in that region, and the learning curve associated with the integration
of the computer system of Southern Pacific in the region with the Railroad's
computer system that commenced in July 1998. The Railroad alleviated this
congestion by various measures, including temporarily rerouting trains from this
region to other portions of its system. Late in the third quarter and early in
the fourth quarter of 1998, the Railroad's operations were also adversely
affected by severe weather in the southern portion of its system, including


 
Hurricane Georges, which disrupted operations in New Orleans and other parts of
Louisiana at the end of September, heavy rains that moved from northern Texas
through Oklahoma and into the Kansas City area in early October, heavy rains
that resulted in severe flooding in central and southern Texas later in October,
and heavy rains and flooding across parts of Oklahoma and Kansas in early
November. The Railroad was able to respond quickly to these problems by
rerouting traffic, repairing damages caused by washouts and restoring service
without severe or lengthy disruptions to the Railroad's operations, which
reflected the success of the Railroad's Service Recovery Process in addressing
service and congestion problems. Despite these external difficulties, the
Railroad was able to recoup the financial loss generated in the first half of
1998 and reported net income for the full year of 1998.

OPERATIONS

A description of UPC's two major transportation segments, rail and trucking,
which operate principally in the United States, follows.

RAIL

OPERATIONS - The Railroad is the largest rail system in the United States, with
nearly 34,000 route miles linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports to the
Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several north/south corridors to
key Mexican gateways. The Railroad serves the western two-thirds of the country
and maintains coordinated schedules with other carriers for the handling of
freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the
Southwest, Canada and Mexico.  Export and import traffic is moved through Gulf
Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and (primarily through
interline connections) Canadian borders.

     The Railroad is subject to price and service competition from other
railroads, motor carriers and barge operators. The Company's main rail
competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation and its rail subsidiary,
The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company (BNSF), which manages the
nation's second largest Class I railroad and operates parallel routes in many of
the Company's main traffic corridors. In addition, the Company's operations are
conducted in corridors served by other competing railroads and by motor
carriers. Motor carrier competition is particularly strong for intermodal
traffic. Because of the proximity of the Railroad's routes to major inland and
Gulf Coast waterways, barge competition can be particularly pronounced,
especially for grain and bulk commodities.

     Major categories of freight hauled by the Railroad are agricultural
products, automotive, chemicals, energy (primarily coal), industrical products
and intermodal. Percentages of revenue ton-miles and commodity revenue for the
major commodities hauled by the Railroad are presented on page 49 of the 1998
Annual Report to Shareholders (Annual Report) and are incorporated herein by
reference.

EMPLOYEES - Union Pacific Corporation employs approximately 65,000 people.
Approximately 87% of the Railroad's 53,000 employees are represented by rail
unions. During 1996, nearly all of UPRR's unionized workforce ratified five-year


 
national agreements, which include a combination of general wage increases and
lump-sum payments. In addition, the agreements provide for increased flexibility
in work rules. Under the conditions imposed by the Surface Transportation Board
of the U.S. Department of Transportation (STB) in connection with the Southern
Pacific acquisition, labor agreements between the Railroad and the unions
representing SP employees must be negotiated before the UPRR and SP rail systems
can be fully integrated. To date, the Railroad has successfully reached
agreements with the shopcraft, carmen, clerical and maintenance-of-way unions.
The negotiations with the operating crafts are proceeding on schedule. The terms
of ratified and pending labor agreements are not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Corporation's results of operations. The current national
bargaining agreement will end in 2000. The Corporation expects notices for
negotiations to be served in November 1999.

     A separate Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
1998, will be filed by UPRR and will contain additional information concerning
that company.

TRUCKING

OPERATIONS - The Corporation's other major line of business is truck
transportation.  Overnite, a major interstate trucking company specializing in
LTL shipments, serves all 50 states and portions of Canada and Mexico through
165 service centers located throughout the United States.  Overnite transports a
variety of products, including machinery, tobacco, textiles, plastics,
electronics and paper products. Overnite experiences intense service and price
competition from both regional and national motor carriers.

EMPLOYEES - As the nation's largest predominantly non-union single operating
trucking company, Overnite is periodically targeted by major labor organization
efforts instituted by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (Teamsters) at
many of its service centers.  Since year-end 1994, OTC has received 89 petitions
for union elections at 66 of its 165 service centers. Twenty-one service
centers, representing approximately 14% of Overnite's nationwide workforce,
voted for union representation, and the Teamsters have been certified and
recognized as the bargaining representative for such employees.  Elections
affecting approximately 400 additional employees are unresolved, and there are
no elections currently scheduled.  To date, Overnite has not entered into any
collective bargaining agreements with the Teamsters; however, the Company is
engaged in collective bargaining negotiations over union contract demands at the
21 represented locations.

OPERATIONAL INITIATIVES - During 1998, 1997 and 1996, Overnite benefited from
several initiatives aimed at better matching its operations to the current
trucking industry environment.  These actions included workforce reductions,
service center consolidations, centralization of the linehaul management process
and pricing initiatives targeting Overnite's lowest margin customers. OTC has
also benefited from growth in its customer base generated by continuing
improvements in its service levels.


 
OTHER INFORMATION

Additional information for UPC's principal business segments is presented on
pages 4 through 15, in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on pages
36 through 39, and on pages 49 and 50 of the Annual Report, and such information
(excluding photographs on pages 4 through 15, none of which supplements the text
and which are not otherwise required to be disclosed herein) is incorporated
herein by reference. The map of the Corporation's operations on pages 52 and 53
of the Annual Report is also incorporated herein by reference.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION - UPC's operations are currently subject to a variety of
Federal, state and local regulations.  The most significant areas of regulation
are described below.  See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings
in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", which is incorporated herein by reference.

     The operations of the Railroad and Overnite are subject to the regulatory
jurisdiction of the STB, other Federal agencies and various state agencies. The
STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic;
freight car compensation; transfer, extension or abandonment of rail lines; and
acquisition of control of rail and motor carriers by rail common carriers. Other
Federal agencies have jurisdiction over safety, movement of hazardous materials,
movement and disposal of hazardous waste and equipment standards.  Various state
and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous wastes and seek
to regulate movement of hazardous materials.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION - Subsidiaries of UPC are subject to various
environmental statutes and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and the Clean Air Act (CAA).

     RCRA applies to hazardous waste generators and transporters, as well as to
persons engaged in treatment and disposal of hazardous waste, and specifies
standards for storage areas, treatment units and land disposal units. All
generators of hazardous waste are required to label shipments in accordance with
detailed regulations and to prepare a detailed manifest identifying the material
and stating its destination before waste can be released for offsite transport.
The transporter must deliver the hazardous waste in accordance with the manifest
and only to a treatment, storage or disposal facility qualified for RCRA interim
status or having a final RCRA permit.

     Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under RCRA have
established a comprehensive system for the management of hazardous waste. These
regulations identify a wide range of industrial by-products and residues as
hazardous waste, and specify requirements for "cradle-to-grave" management of
such waste from the time of generation through the time of disposal and beyond.
States that have adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at
least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA may be authorized by the EPA
to administer all or part of RCRA on behalf of the EPA.


 
     CERCLA was designed to establish a strategy for cleaning up facilities at
which hazardous waste or other hazardous substances have created actual or
potential environmental hazards. The EPA has designated certain facilities as
requiring cleanup or further assessment. Among other things, CERCLA authorizes
the Federal government either to clean up such facilities itself or to order
persons responsible for the situation to do so. The act created a multi-billion
dollar fund to be used by the Federal government to pay for such cleanup
efforts. In the event the Federal government pays for such cleanup, it will seek
reimbursement from private parties upon which CERCLA imposes liability.

     CERCLA imposes strict liability on the owners and operators of facilities
in which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from
which they are released or are likely to be released into the environment. It
also imposes strict liability on the generators of such waste and the
transporters of the waste who select the disposal or treatment sites. Liability
may include cleanup costs incurred by third persons and damage to publicly owned
natural resources. UPC's subsidiaries are subject to potential liability under
CERCLA as owners or operators of facilities at which hazardous substances have
been disposed of, or as generators or transporters of hazardous substances
disposed of at other locations. Some states have enacted, and other states are
considering enacting, legislation similar to CERCLA. Certain provisions of these
acts are more stringent than CERCLA. States that have passed such legislation
are currently active in designating more facilities as requiring cleanup and
further assessment.

     The operations of the Corporation's subsidiaries are subject to the
requirements of the CAA. The 1990 amendments to the CAA include a provision
under Title V requiring that certain facilities obtain operating permits. EPA
regulations require all states to develop Federally-approvable permit programs.
Affected facilities must submit air operating permit applications to the
respective states within one year of the EPA's approval of the state programs.
Certain UPC railroad facilities may be required to obtain such permits. In
addition, in December 1997, the EPA issued final regulations which require that
most locomotives purchased or remanufactured after 1999 or 2000 meet certain
stringent emissions criteria. While the cost of meeting these requirements may
be significant, expenditures are not expected to affect materially the
Corporation's financial condition or results of operations.

     The operations of UPC's subsidiaries are also subject to other laws
protecting the environment, including permit requirements for wastewater
discharges pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and
storm-water runoff regulations under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.

     Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated
attendant remediation costs is set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 48 of the Annual Report. Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.


 
CAUTIONARY INFORMATION - Certain information included in this report contains,
and other materials filed or to be filed by the Corporation with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (as well as information included in oral statements or
other written statements made or to be made by the Corporation) contain or will
contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such
forward-looking information may include, without limitation, statements that the
Corporation does not expect that claims, lawsuits, environmental costs,
commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or other matters will
have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity and other similar expressions concerning matters that
are not historical facts, and projections or predictions as to the Corporation's
financial or operational results. Such forward-looking information is or will be
based on information available at that time, and is or will be subject to risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those expressed in the statements. Important factors that could cause such
differences include, but are not limited to, whether the Corporation is fully
successful in recovering from the effects of the Railroad's congestion-related
problems and implementing its financial and operational initiatives, industry
competition and legislative and/or regulatory developments, natural events such
as severe weather, floods and earthquakes, the effects of adverse general
economic conditions, changes in fuel prices, labor strikes, the impact of year
2000 systems problems and the ultimate outcome of shipper claims related to
congestion, environmental investigations or proceedings and other types of
claims and litigation.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------

SOUTHERN PACIFIC ACQUISITION
- ----------------------------

On August 12, 1996, the STB served a decision (the Decision) approving the
acquisition of control of Southern Pacific by the Corporation, subject to
various conditions. The acquisition was consummated on September 11, 1996.
Various appeals were filed with respect to the Decision, and all such appeals
were ultimately consolidated in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. All of the appeals have since been withdrawn except the appeal
of the Western Coal Traffic League. Oral argument in the case was held on
September 11, 1998, and the case is awaiting decision. The Corporation believes
that it is unlikely that the disposition of the remaining appeal will have a
material adverse impact on its consolidated financial condition or its results
of operations.

     Among the conditions to the STB's approval of the Southern Pacific
acquisition was the requirement that the STB retain oversight jurisdiction for
five years to examine whether the conditions imposed under the Decision remain
effective to address the competitive harms caused by the merger. On December 21,
1998, the STB served a decision in the second annual general oversight
proceeding to review the implementation of the merger and the effectiveness of
the conditions imposed under the Decision. The STB concluded that,
notwithstanding 


 
the service problems that arose in the western United States following the
merger, the merger had thus far not caused any substantial competitive harm. The
STB rejected various requested adjustments to the merger conditions and refused
to impose additional conditions on the merger other than those imposed in
connection with the Gulf Coast Oversight Proceeding (defined below). The STB
ordered the Corporation to continue to report quarterly on merger implementation
and to provide a comprehensive summary presentation in the progress reports due
on July 1, 1999. The STB order also requires interested parties to file comments
concerning the next annual oversight proceeding on August 16, 1999, with replies
being due September 3, 1999.

SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD PROCEEDINGS
- ----------------------------------------

In addition to the annual oversight proceeding, the Corporation and the Railroad
were parties to a separate proceeding before the STB that terminated during the
fourth quarter of 1998.  This proceeding, which was initiated in March 1998
under the STB's continuing oversight jurisdiction with respect to the merger of
the Corporation and Southern Pacific, was for the purpose of considering
proposals for new remedial conditions to the merger pertaining to service in the
Houston, Texas area and surrounding coastal areas of Texas and Louisiana (the
Gulf Coast Oversight Proceeding). Various parties filed applications in the Gulf
Coast Oversight Proceeding seeking the imposition of additional conditions to
the merger including, among other things, requests by certain parties for
conditions that would effectively open up access to shippers on the Railroad's
lines and permit competing carriers to serve those shippers.  On December 21,
1998, the STB issued a decision in the Gulf Coast Oversight Proceeding which
imposed the following additional conditions: (i) a "clear route" condition
pursuant to which the Joint Director of the UPRR/BNSF dispatching center in
Spring, Texas was granted authority to route traffic through Houston over any
available route, even a route over which the owner of a train does not have
trackage rights, thereby enhancing efficiency and facilitating the smooth
movement of rail traffic through the Houston area; (ii) the granting of
approximately four miles of additional trackage rights to BNSF to create a new
interchange with a short-line railroad in the Austin, Texas area; and (iii) the
imposition of certain annual reporting requirements on the Railroad with respect
to the implementation of its infrastructure plan for the Houston/Gulf Coast
region.  The STB denied all other condition requests, including requests that
other railroads be granted "open access" to shippers not currently served by
other carriers on the Railroad's lines. The STB stated that the propriety of an
"open access" regulatory scheme for the railroad industry is a matter more
appropriately addressed by Congress.


 
     The Railroad was also party to another proceeding before the STB that
terminated during the fourth quarter of 1998.  This proceeding arose as a result
of a petition filed by Kansas City Southern Railway Company (KCS) and Texas
Mexican Railway Company (Tex Mex) challenging actions taken by UPRR and BNSF to
rationalize the operations of the Houston Belt & Terminal Railway Company, of
which UPRR and BNSF each owns 50%.  On December 21, 1998, the STB entered an
order denying this and related petitions filed by KCS and Tex Mex.

BOTTLENECK PROCEEDINGS
- ----------------------

On August 27, 1996, the STB initiated a proceeding asking for arguments and
evidence on the issue of whether it should modify its existing regulations
regarding the prescription of, and challenge to, rates for rail service over a
bottleneck segment (a line of railroad that is served by only one railroad
between a junction and an exclusively-served shipper facility).  The STB
proceeding also referred to pending motions to dismiss three individual
complaint proceedings filed by shippers challenging a class rate charged for the
movement of coal, two of which named UPRR and SPT as a party thereto.  Neither
complaint proceeding individually involved a significant exposure for
reparations. However, if existing regulation of bottleneck movements were
changed, future revenue from such movements, including those covered by the
complaint proceedings, could be substantially reduced. On December 31, 1996, the
STB served a decision that generally reaffirmed earlier rulings regarding a rail
carrier's obligation to provide rates for bottleneck segments and assured the
right of rail carriers to differentially price traffic based upon demand. It
also dismissed the two complaint proceedings in which UPRR and SPT were
defendants. On April 30, 1997, the STB served a decision generally declining to
reconsider its December 31, 1996 decision, but clarifying that in certain
circumstances a bottleneck destination carrier that does not serve the origin
for a traffic movement may be required to provide a common carrier rate for the
bottleneck portion of the movement which can be legally challenged before the
STB apart from the contract rate for the remainder of the move. The STB
decisions were appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  On
February 10, 1999, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals entered an order
affirming the STB's decision and the dismissal of the two complaints against
UPRR and SPT.  The Court also dismissed a cross-appeal by the railroads
challenging the aspect of the STB's decision finding that a shipper could
challenge the reasonableness of a published rate over only part of a joint route
if the rest of the route was covered by a contract.  The ground for the Court's
dismissal of the cross-appeal was that no actual controversy involving such a
situation was presented in the case before the STB and, accordingly, there was
no actual case or controversy for the Court to decide. It is anticipated that
the same issues will be decided in a pending appeal before the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  In that case, which was filed by
FMC Corporation and an affiliate with the STB in October 1997 and subsequently
appealed to the D.C. Circuit,  the Railroad is challenging a December 1997 STB
decision requiring it to publish separately challengeable bottleneck segment


 
rates for the portion of a route not covered by a contract.  This appeal had
been stayed pending disposition of the appeals by the Eighth Circuit Court of
Appeals.

CUSTOMER CLAIMS
- ---------------

Certain customers have submitted claims for damages related to shipments delayed
by the Railroad as a result of congestion problems, and certain customers have
filed lawsuits seeking relief related to such delays.  The nature of the damages
sought by claimants includes, but is not limited to, contractual liquidated
damages, freight loss or damage, alternative transportation charges, additional
production costs, lost business and lost profits.  In addition, some customers
have asserted that they have the right to cancel contracts as a result of
alleged material breaches of such contracts by the Railroad.  The Corporation
has accrued $456 million for these claims ($370 million in 1998 and $86 million
in 1997).


SHAREHOLDER LITIGATION
- ----------------------

The Corporation and certain of its directors and officers are defendants in two
purported class actions that have been consolidated into one proceeding. The
consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that the Corporation
violated the Federal securities laws by failing to disclose material facts and
making materially false and misleading statements concerning the service,
congestion and safety problems encountered following the Corporation's
acquisition of Southern Pacific in 1996. These lawsuits were filed in late 1997
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and seek
to recover unspecified amounts of damages.  Management believes that the
plaintiffs' claims are without merit and intends to defend them vigorously. The
defendants have moved to dismiss this action, and the motion has been fully
briefed.

     In addition to the class action litigation, a purported derivative action
was filed on behalf of the Corporation and the Railroad in September 1998 in the
District Court for Tarrant County, Texas, naming as defendants the then-current
and certain former directors of the Corporation and the Railroad and, as nominal
defendants, the Corporation and the Railroad.  The derivative action alleges,
among other things, that the named directors breached their fiduciary duties to
the Corporation and the Railroad by approving and implementing the Southern
Pacific merger without informing themselves of its impact or ensuring that
adequate controls were put in place and by causing UPC and the Railroad to make
misrepresentations about the Railroad's service problems to the financial
markets and regulatory authorities.  The Corporation's Board of Directors
established a special litigation committee consisting of three independent
directors to review the plaintiffs' allegations and determine whether it is in
UPC's best interest to pursue them. The committee has unanimously concluded that
further prosecution of the derivative action on behalf of the Corporation and
the 


 
Railroad is not in the best interest of either such company. Accordingly, the
Corporation and the Railroad have filed a motion with the Court to dismiss the
derivative action. The individual defendants also believe that these claims are
without merit and intend to defend them vigorously.

LABOR MATTERS
- -------------
                                        
The General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) is seeking a
bargaining order remedy in 12 cases involving Overnite where a Teamsters local
union lost a representation election.  A bargaining order remedy would require
Overnite to recognize and bargain with the union as if the union had won instead
of lost the election and would be warranted only if the following findings are
made: (1) the petitioning Teamsters local had obtained valid authorization cards
from a majority of the employees in an appropriate unit; (2) Overnite committed
serious unfair labor practices; and (3) those unfair labor practices would
preclude the holding of a fair election despite the application of less drastic
remedies. A thirteenth bargaining order case involving Overnite has tentatively
been settled by the parties thereto without imposing a requirement that Overnite
bargain with the Teamsters local involved in the case.  In four of the remaining
12 cases, an administrative law judge has ruled that the bargaining order remedy
is warranted.  Overnite has appealed that ruling to the NLRB. Under NLRB case
law, a bargaining order remedy would attach retrospectively to the date when,
after a union with a showing of majority support demanded recognition, Overnite
embarked on an unlawful course of conduct. In the event of such a retroactive
effective bargaining order, Overnite would face back pay liability for losses in
employee earnings due to unilateral changes in terms or conditions of
employment, such as layoffs, reduced hours of work or less remunerative work
assignments. Overnite believes it has substantial defenses in the bargaining
order cases and intends to continue to defend them aggressively.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
- ---------------------

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has brought a civil action
against certain subsidiaries of Southern Pacific which have been merged into
UPRR, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violation
of the Clean Water Act and the Oil Pollution Act. The complaint identifies seven
incidents involving the alleged release of hazardous substances into the waters
of the United States and seeks civil penalties of $25,000 per day and
unspecified injunctive relief to prevent future violations. Six of the seven
incidents are related to derailments dating back to 1992. Six of the incidents
involve alleged releases from ruptured locomotive fuel tanks, and one incident
in 1996 involves an alleged release of sulfuric acid near the Tennessee Pass.

     The Railroad has been named as a defendant in a civil action brought by the
California Department of Fish and Game, Office of Spill Prevention and Response
on April 10, 1998. The complaint alleges violations of California Fish and Game
Code Section 5650, California Business and Professions Code Section 17200, Civil
Code Sections 3479 and 3480, and damage to the waters of California 


 
for which the Department of Fish and Game allege trusteeship. The complaint
results from derailments and alleged releases of diesel fuel oil during 1995 in
the Feather River Canyon in Butte County, California. The Complaint seeks
penalties, exemplary damages, natural resource damages and unspecified
injunctive relief.

     The Railroad has been named as a defendant in a criminal misdemeanor action
brought by the State of California in the Municipal Court of Placer County,
California on February 24, 1998. The complaint alleges a violation of California
Fish and Game Code Section 5650 as a result of a diesel fuel spill in 
Norden, California in February 1997. In addition, the California Department of
Fish and Game is seeking penalties, monitoring costs and natural resource
damages under state water statutes, and the EPA is seeking penalties for
violation of the Clean Water Act in connection with the same incident.

     In March 1998, the Railroad received notice that the Railroad and Clean
Harbors, a waste disposal firm, were the subject of a criminal investigation by
the EPA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Tank cars containing hazardous
waste billed to Clean Harbors' transload facility in Sterling, Colorado were
held in the Railroad's Sterling, Colorado rail yard for periods longer than ten
days prior to placement in Clean Harbors' facility, allegedly in violation of
hazardous waste regulations. The Railroad is cooperating with the investigation
and has responded to grand jury subpoenas. A finding of violation could result
in significant criminal or civil penalties.

     The Railroad has received approximately 20 Notices of Violation (NOVs) from
the South Coast Air Quality Management District (the District) relating to fumes
emitted from idling diesel locomotives at Slover siding near the Railroad's yard
in West Colton, California. Trains awaiting crews or room to enter the West
Colton yard were parked at Slover siding with their engines running for various
amounts of time, causing exhaust fumes to enter the backyards and homes of
residents living along the siding. The District has cited the Railroad for
creating a public nuisance pursuant to the California Health and Safety Code and
the District's regulations. Each violation carries a maximum civil penalty of
$25,000 per day, which may be increased in some circumstances to $50,000 per
day. Although the Railroad modified its operating procedures for trains entering
the West Colton yard to reduce the problem, the District entered an order with
respect to the situation which the Railroad believes is an impermissible burden
on interstate commerce and is preempted by applicable federal law. The Railroad
filed an action in Federal district court seeking to overturn the District's
order on those grounds, but it is complying with the order in the interim.  The
Court denied the Railroad's request for a preliminary injunction but set the
matter for summary judgment hearing on July 19, 1999 and trial on September 21,
1999.  The Railroad and the District have not entered into discussions
concerning settlement of the outstanding NOVs pending resolution of this
lawsuit. Accordingly, the exact amount of any payment to the District in
connection with the NOVs cannot be determined at this time.


 
     The Railroad has received notification that the District Attorney for San
Bernardino County, California has opened an investigation into the Railroad's
handling of several hazardous material spills in Barstow and West Colton,
California. The incident in Barstow involved a rear-end collision between two
trains near Barstow in August 1997 that resulted in a spillage of locomotive
diesel fuel and leakage from two tank cars containing toxic chemicals. Three
incidents in the West Colton yard in 1998 involved leaking tank cars and spills
of diesel fuel from a derailed locomotive. The District Attorney's office is
investigating allegations that cleanup procedures were not undertaken promptly
and required notices were not given in connection with these incidents. An
initial indication of fines exceeding $250,000 with respect to these incidents
has been communicated by the District Attorney's office. While the Railroad
expects to enter into settlement negotiations with the District Attorney's
office, the exact amount of any fines or penalties that may be required to be
paid as a part of any settlement cannot be determined at this time.

     The Corporation and its affiliates have received notices from the EPA and
state environmental agencies alleging that they are or may be liable under
certain Federal or state environmental laws for remediation costs at various
sites throughout the United States, including sites which are on the Superfund
National Priorities List or state superfund lists. Although specific claims have
been made by the EPA and state regulators with respect to some of these sites,
the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits by third parties cannot be
predicted at this time because of the number of potentially responsible parties
involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and
quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and/or the speculative
nature of remediation costs. Nevertheless, at many of the superfund sites, the
Corporation believes it will have little or no exposure because no liability
should be imposed under applicable law, one or more other financially able
parties generated all or most of the contamination, or a settlement of the
Corporation's exposure has been reached although regulatory proceedings at the
sites involved have not been formally terminated.

     Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated
attendant remediation costs is set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 48 of the Annual Report.  Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.


 
                   Executive Officers of the Registrant and
                   ----------------------------------------
                 Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries
                 --------------------------------------------

 


 


________________________


 
                   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT AND
           PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)


(1)  Mr. Davidson was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective
     January 1, 1997.  He became President of UPC effective May 1994 and was
     also Chief Operating Officer of UPC from November 1995 to December 1996. He
     was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Railroad until August
     1995, Chairman of the Railroad until November 1996 and Chairman and Chief
     Executive Officer of the Railroad since November 1996.

(2)  Mr. Stuart was elected to his current position effective June 1998.  Prior
     thereto, he was Vice President and Treasurer of UPC.

(3)  Mr. Bryan was elected to his current position effective May 1997.  Prior
     thereto, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Union Pacific
     Technologies, Inc., a former subsidiary of UPC.

(4)  Ms. Schaefer was elected to her current position effective April 1997. From
     April 1994 to April 1997 she was Vice President  Human Resources of the
     Railroad.  Prior thereto, she was Director of Compensation and Human
     Resources Information Services of UPC.

(5)  Mr. Starzel was elected to his current position effective April 1998.  From
     September 1996 to April 1998 he was Vice President  Western Region of the
     Railroad and prior thereto he was Vice Chairman of Southern Pacific Rail
     Corporation.

(6)  Mr. von Bernuth was elected Corporate Secretary effective April 1997. He
     has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel during the past five
     years.

(7)  Mr. Young was elected Controller of UPC and Senior Vice President - Finance
     of the Railroad effective March 1999 and Senior Vice President - Finance of
     UPC effective June 1998. He served as Treasurer of the Railroad from June
     1998 to March 1999. He was Vice President - Customer Service Planning and
     Quality of the Railroad from April 1998 to June 1998, Vice President -
     Quality and Operations Planning from September 1997 to April 1998, Vice
     President - Finance and Quality from September 1995 to September 1997, and
     prior thereto he was Vice President - Re-engineering of the Railroad.

(8)  Mr. Eisele was elected to his current position effective March 1999. He was
     Vice President-Strategic Planning from September 1997 to March 1999. He was
     Vice President Purchasing for the Railroad from April 1994 to September
     1997. Prior thereto, he was Vice President Human Resources for the
     Railroad.

(9)  Mr. Gutschewski was elected Vice President Taxes effective August 1998.
     Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice President Tax and Finance Management
     of the Railroad.


 
(10) Ms. Jones was elected to her current position effective March 1999. She
     served as Vice President Investor Relations from June 1998 to March 1999.
     She was Assistant Vice President Treasury and Assistant Treasurer of UPC
     from September 1996 to June 1998 and prior thereto she was Assistant
     Treasurer of UPC.


(11) Mr. Davis was elected to his current position in September 1998 and will
     serve in such position until his retirement effective March 31, 1999. From
     November 1996 to September 1998 he was President and Chief Operating
     Officer of the Railroad. From September 1996 to November 1996 he served as
     President SP Rail Operations. From February 1995 to September 1996 he
     served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Pacific Rail
     Corporation. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
     Operating Officer of CSX Transportation, Inc., a company engaged in
     transportation including railroad; ocean container-shipping; intermodal and
     trucking; and contract logistics.


(12) Mr. Shattuck was elected to his current position effective March 1999.
     Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President - Marketing and Sales
     of the Railroad.

(13) Mr. Evans was elected to his current position effective September 1998.
     Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President of Emerson Electric Company, a
     company engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of electrical,
     electromechanical, and electronic products and systems.

(14) Mr. Duffy was elected to his current position effective September 1998. He
     was Senior Vice President - Safety Assurance and Compliance Process from
     October 1997 to September 1998. He was Senior Vice President - Customer
     Service and Planning of the Railroad from November 1995 to October 1997.
     From May 1995 to November 1995 he was Vice President Quality - and Network
     Planning of the Railroad. He was Vice President - Quality of the Railroad
     from January 1995 to May 1995. Prior thereto, he was Assistant Vice
     President - Quality of the Railroad.

(15) Mr. Koraleski was elected to this position effective March 1999. He served
     as Controller of UPC from August 1998 to March 1999 and as Executive Vice
     President - Finance of the Railroad from May 1996 to March 1999. Prior to
     May 1996, he was Executive Vice President Finance - and Information
     Technologies of the Railroad.

(16) Mr. King was elected to his current position effective September 1998. He
     was Executive Vice President - Operations from October 1997 to September
     1998. He was Vice President - Transportation of the Railroad from November
     1995 to October 1997. Prior thereto, he was Vice President - Risk
     Management of the Railroad.

(17) Mr. Suggs was elected to his current position in April 1996. Prior thereto,
     he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Preston Trucking Company,
     Inc., a company engaged in truck transportation.


 
                                    PART II
                                    -------

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                                    MATTERS
         -----------------------------------------------------------------

Information as to the markets in which UPC's Common Stock is traded, the
quarterly high and low prices for such stock, the dividends declared with
respect to the Common Stock during the last two years, and the approximate
number of stockholders of record at January 29, 1999 is set forth under Selected
Quarterly Data and Stockholders and Dividends on page 49 of the Annual Report.
Information as to restrictions on the payment of dividends with respect to the
Corporation's Common Stock is set forth in Note 7 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 44 of the Annual Report. All such information is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
        -----------------------

Selected Financial Data for the Corporation for each of the last 10 years is set
forth under the Ten-Year Financial Summary on page 51 of the Annual Report.  All
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
        ---------------------------------------------------------------

Information as to UPC's financial condition, changes in financial condition,
results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, and other
matters is set forth in the Financial Review on pages 16 through 30 of the
Annual Report.  All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
          ----------------------------------------------------------

Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under
Other Matters on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report and in Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report.  All
such information is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
        -------------------------------------------

The Corporation's Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting
Policies, Notes to the Financial Statements, Business Segment Information and
Independent Auditors' Report are presented on pages 31 through 48 of the Annual
Report.  Selected quarterly financial data are set forth under Selected
Quarterly Data on page 49 of the Annual Report.  All such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
        --------------------------------------------------------------

None.


 
                                   PART III
                                   --------

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
           --------------------------------------------------

(a) Directors of Registrant.

    Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of
office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and
certain other directorships held by each director or person nominated to become
a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of 13 Directors segment of the
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Executive Officers of Registrant.

    Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is
presented in Part I of this Report under Executive Officers of the Registrant
and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

(c) Section 16(a) Compliance.

    Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
          ----------------------

Information concerning compensation received by UPC's directors and certain
executive officers is presented in the Compensation of Directors, Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, Report on Executive
Compensation, Summary Compensation Table, Option/SAR Grants Table, Option/SAR
Exercises and Year-End Value Table, Defined Benefit Plans and Five-Year
Performance Comparison segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
          --------------------------------------------------------------

Information as to the number of shares of UPC's equity securities beneficially
owned as of February 8, 1999 by each of its directors and nominees for director,
its five most highly compensated executive officers, its directors and executive
officers as a group and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Election
of 13 Directors, Security Ownership of Management, and Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
          ----------------------------------------------

Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.


 
                                    PART IV
                                    -------


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          ---------------------------------------------------------------

  (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules
      ----------------------------------------------

      The Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies,
      Notes to the Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report on
      pages 31 through 48, inclusive, of the Annual Report are incorporated
      herein by reference.

      No schedules are required to be filed because of the absence of conditions
      under which they would be required or because the required information is
      set forth in the consolidated financial statements referred to above.

      (3) Exhibits
          --------

      Items 10(f) through 10(q) below constitute management contracts and
      executive compensation arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to
      this report.

      3(a)  Revised Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended through April
            25, 1996, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3 to the
            Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            March 31, 1996.

      3(b)  By-Laws of UPC, as amended effective as of November 19, 1998, are
            incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation's
            Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 25, 1998.

      4     Pursuant to various indentures and other agreements, UPC has issued
            long-term debt; however, no such agreement has securities or
            obligations covered thereby which exceed 10% of the Corporation's
            total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with
            a copy of any such indenture or agreement upon request by the
            Commission.

      10(a) Amended and Restated Anschutz Shareholders Agreement, dated as of
            July 12, 1996, among UPC, UPRR, The Anschutz Corporation (TAC),
            Anschutz Foundation (the Foundation) and Mr. Philip F. Anschutz, is
            incorporated herein by reference to Annex D to the Joint Proxy
            Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to
            UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).


 
      10(b) Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July
            12, 1996, among UPC, TAC and the Foundation is incorporated herein
            by reference to Annex H to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus
            included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

      10(c) Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July
            12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger
            Co. and Southern Pacific Rail Corporation (SP) is incorporated
            herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy
            Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to
            UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

      10(d) Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri
            Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation
            Company (SPT), The Denver & Rio Grande Western Railroad Company
            (D&RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL
            Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad
            Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company
            (Santa Fe), on the other hand, is incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.11 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-
            64707).

      10(e) Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR,
            MPRR, SP, SPT, D&RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and
            Santa Fe, on the other hand, is incorporated herein by reference to
            Exhibit 10.12 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-
            64707).

      10(f) The Executive Incentive Plan of UPC, amended April 27, 1995, is
            incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
            Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            March 31, 1995.

      10(g) The Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers of UPC and
            Affiliates, as amended and restated, is incorporated herein by
            reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.

      10(h) Letter Agreement, dated September 8, 1998, between UPC and Mr. Ivor
            J. Evans, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            September 30, 1998.


 
      10(i) Letter Agreement, dated September 11, 1996, between UPC and Robert
            Starzel.

      10(j) Employment Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1994, between SP and
            SPT, on the one hand, and Robert F. Starzel, on the other hand, is
            incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to SP's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

      10(k) The 1988 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan of UPC, as amended
            as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference to
            Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

      10(l) The 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC, as 
            amended as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated herein by
            reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

      10(m) The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended
            January 25, 1996 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
            10(w) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1995.

      10(n) The Executive Life Insurance Plan of UPC, as amended October 1997,
            is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the
            Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1997.

      10(o) The UPC Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the
            Board of Directors, as amended January 28, 1999.

      10(p) Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union
            Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
            10(z) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1995.

      10(q) Written Description of Other Executive Compensation Arrangements of
            Union Pacific Corporation.

      12    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.


 
      13    The inside front cover ("Financial Highlights"), as well as, pages 1
            through 53, inclusive, of UPC's Annual Report to Shareholders for
            the year ended December 31, 1998, but excluding photographs set
            forth on pages 1 through 15, none of which supplements the text and
            which are not otherwise required to be disclosed in this Annual
            Report on Form 10-K.

      18    Letter from Independent Auditors regarding change in accounting
            principle.

      21    List of the Corporation's significant subsidiaries and their
            respective states of incorporation.

      23    Independent Auditors' Consent.

      24    Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.

      27(a) Financial Data Schedule.

      27(b) Financial Data Schedule (restated for the periods ended March 31,
            June 30 and September 30, 1998).

      27(c) Financial Data Schedule (restated for the periods ended March 31,
            June 30 and September 30, 1997).

      27(d) Financial Data Schedule (restated for the periods ended March 31,
            June 30 and September 30, 1996).

      27(e) Financial Data Schedule (restated for the years ended December 31,
            1997, 1996 and 1995).

      99(a) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1998
            required by Form 11-K for the UPC Thrift Plan - to be filed by
            amendment.

      99(b) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1998
            required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Fruit Express Company
            Agreement Employee 401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be filed by
            amendment.

      99(c) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1998
            required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific Agreement Employee
            401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.

      99(d) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1998
            required by Form 11-K for the Chicago and North Western Railway
            Company Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Program - to be filed
            by amendment.


 
      99(e) Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1998
            required by Form 11-K for the Southern Pacific Rail Corporation
            Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K
      -------------------

      On October 19, 1998, UPC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K describing 
a shareholder lawsuit discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K,
and filing certain documents in connection with UPC's Registration Statements on
Form S-3 for debt issued under the Corporation's Medium Term Note Program. This
Report was re-filed in its entirety on October 20, 1998 to provide the required
conformed signature that was inadvertently omitted from the original filing.

On October 26, 1998, UPC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing UPC's
financial results for the third quarter of 1998.

On November 25, 1998, UPC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing certain
amendments to UPC's by-laws adopted by UPC's Board of Directors on November 19,
1998, and filing a copy of such by-laws, as amended.


 
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 25th day of March,
1999.

                                    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION


                                    By /s/ Richard K. Davidson
                                       -------------------------------
                                       Richard K. Davidson, Chairman,
                                       President and Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below, on this 25th day of March, 1999, by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

      PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
       AND DIRECTOR:

                                       /s/ Richard K. Davidson
                                       -------------------------------
                                       Richard K. Davidson, Chairman,
                                       President, Chief Executive
                                       Officer and Director

      PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

                                       /s/ Gary M. Stuart
                                       -------------------------------
                                       Gary M. Stuart, Executive        
                                       Vice President -  Finance

      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

                                       /s/ James R. Young
                                       ------------------------------
                                       James R. Young,
                                       Senior Vice President - Finance
                                       and Controller


 
    SIGNATURES - (Continued)


DIRECTORS:
- ----------

Philip F. Anschutz*                      Elbridge T. Gerry, Jr.*


Robert P. Bauman*                        William H. Gray, III*


Richard B. Cheney*                       Judith Richards Hope*
 

E. Virgil Conway*                        Richard J. Mahoney*
 

Thomas J. Donohue*                       John R. Meyer*


Spencer F. Eccles*                       Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr.*
 

Ivor J. Evans*                           Richard D. Simmons*



* By /s/ Thomas E. Whitaker
     --------------------------------------
     Thomas E. Whitaker, Attorney-in-fact

     


 
                           UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX


EXHIBIT No.                                   DESCRIPTION
- -----------                                   -----------


FILED WITH THIS STATEMENT
- -------------------------

10(i)                   Letter Agreement with Robert Starzel

10(o)                   The UPC Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan
                        for the Board of Directors, as amended January 28, 1999.
                         
10(q)                   Written Description of Other Executive Compensation
                        Arrangements of Union Pacific Corporation
                        
12                      Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

13                      The inside front cover ("Financial Highlights") as well
                        as, pages 1 through 53, inclusive, of UPC's Annual
                        Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
                        1998, but excluding photographs set forth on pages 1
                        through 15, none of which supplements the text and which
                        are not otherwise required to be disclosed in this
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K.

18                      Letter from Independent Auditors regarding change in
                        accounting principle

21                      Significant Subsidiaries of Union Pacific Corporation

23                      Independent Auditors' Consent

24                      Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC

27(a)                   Financial Data Schedule

27(b)                   Restated Financial Data Schedule for the Periods ended
                        March 31, June 30 and September 31, 1998

27(c)                   Restated Financial Data Schedule for the Periods ended
                        March 31, June 30 and September 31, 1997

27(d)                   Restated Financial Data Schedule for the Periods ended
                        March 31, June 30 and September 31, 1996

27(e)                   Restated Financial Data Schedule for the Years ended
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

 
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
- -------------------------
                                                                                
3(a)                    Revised Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended
                        through April 25, 1996, are incorporated herein by
                        reference to Exhibit 3 to the Corporation's Quarterly
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                        1996.

3(b)                    By-Laws of UPC, as amended effective as of November 19,
                        1998, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                        3.1 to the Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K
                        filed November 25, 1998.

4                       Pursuant to various indentures and other agreements, UPC
                        has issued long-term debt; however, no such agreement
                        has securities or obligations covered thereby which
                        exceed 10% of the Corporation's total consolidated
                        assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with a copy
                        of any such indenture or agreement upon request by the
                        Commission.

10(a)                   Amended and Restated Anschutz Shareholders Agreement,
                        dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UPRR, The Anschutz
                        Corporation (TAC), Anschutz Foundation (the Foundation)
                        and Mr. Philip F. Anschutz, is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Annex D to the Joint Proxy
                        Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective
                        Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form
                        S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(b)                   Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement,
                        dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, TAC and the
                        Foundation is incorporated herein by reference to Annex
                        H to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in
                        Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(c)                   Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement,
                        dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding
                        Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern
                        Pacific Rail Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy
                        Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective
                        Amendment No. 2 to UPC's Registration Statement on Form
                        S-4 (No. 33-64707).

 
10(d)                   Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR,
                        Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern
                        Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver & Rio
                        Grande Western Railroad Company (D&RGW), St. Louis
                        Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp.
                        (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern
                           
                        Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and
                        Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on the other hand,
                        is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).

10(e)                   Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between
                        UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D&RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the
                        one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is
                        incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to
                        UPC's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).
                            
10(f)                   The Executive Incentive Plan of UPC, amended April 27,
                        1995, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                        10(a) to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                        for the quarter ended March 31, 1995.

10(g)                   The Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers
                        of UPC and Affiliates, as amended and restated, is
                        incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
                        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                        ended December 31, 1993.

10(h)                   Letter Agreement, dated September 8, 1998, between UPC
                        and Mr. Ivor J. Evans, is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Corporation's Quarterly
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                        1998.

 10(j)                  Employment Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1994,
                        between SP and SPT, on the one hand, and Robert F.
                        Starzel, on the other hand, is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.10 to SP's Annual Report on Form
                        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

 
10(k)                   The 1988 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan of UPC,
                        as amended as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated
                        herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                        September 30, 1998.

10(l)                   The 1993 Stock Option and Retention Stock Plan of UPC,
                        as amended as of September 24, 1998, is incorporated
                        herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation's
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                        September 30, 1998.

10(m)                   The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as
                        amended January 25, 1996 is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation's Annual
                        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                        1995.

10(n)                   The Executive Life Insurance Plan of UPC, as amended
                        October 1997, is incorporated herein by reference to
                        Exhibit 10(t) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form
                        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

10(p)                   Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                        of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by
                        reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation's Annual
                        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                        1995.

14                      Pages 4 through 53, inclusive, of UPC's Annual Report to
                        Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1998, but
                        excluding photographs set forth on pages 4 through 15,
                        none of which supplements the text and which are not
                        otherwise required to be disclosed in this Annual Report
                        on Form 10-K.

99(a)                   Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December
                        31, 1998 required by Form 11-K for the UPC Thrift Plan -
                        to be filed by amendment.


99(b)                   Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December
                        31, 1998 required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific
                        Fruit Express Company Agreement Employee 401(k)
                        Retirement Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.

99(c)                   Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December
                        31, 1998 required by Form 11-K for the Union Pacific
                        Agreement Employee 401(k) Retirement Thrift Plan - to be
                        filed by amendment.

99(d)                   Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December
                        31, 1998 required by Form 11-K for the Chicago and North
                        Western Railway Company Profit Sharing and Retirement
                        Savings Program - to be filed by amendment.

99(e)                   Financial Statements for the Fiscal Year ended December
                        31, 1998 required by Form 11-K for the Southern Pacific
                        Rail Corporation Thrift Plan - to be filed by amendment.

