
10-K405



                          UNITED STATES
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549
                                
                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
                                
( X )     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

     For the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995

                               OR

(    )    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

     For the transition period from _____________ to ___________


                 Commission File Number 0-15386

                       CERNER CORPORATION
     (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Delaware                             43-1196944
      (State or other jurisdiction                   (I.R.S. Employer
     of incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

                2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Suite 601
                   Kansas City, Missouri 64117
                         (816) 221-1024
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   NONE
                                
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                
             Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                        (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                     Yes     X      No _____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.    [ X ]

     At March 1, 1996, there were 32,542,563 shares of Common
Stock outstanding, of which 7,491,002 shares were owned by
affiliates.  The aggregate market value of the outstanding
Common Stock of the Registrant held by non-affiliates, based on
the average of bid and asked prices of such stock on March 1,
1996, was $591,843,128.

     Documents incorporated by reference: portions of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1996 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.





PART I

Item 1.  Business

General
- -------

          Cerner Corporation was incorporated in Missouri in
1980.  Through a merger into a wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary
effected in June 1987, Cerner Corporation ("Cerner" or the
"Company") became a Delaware corporation.  The Company's
principal offices are located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, Kansas
City, Missouri 64117, and its telephone number is
(816) 221-1024.

          Cerner designs, develops, markets, installs and
supports member/patient-focused clinical and management
information systems that are capable of being implemented on an
individual, combined or enterprise-wide basis.  Cerner systems
are designed to automate the process of healthcare by
accumulating data on care provided to members/patients,
maintaining such data in a member/patient database repository
and providing access to such data for users of clinical
information across a healthcare system.  Cerner's systems are
designed and developed using the Health Network Architecture
(''HNA''), a single architecture.  HNA is a unified system for
combining clinical and management information applications.  HNA
allows each participating facility within an integrated
healthcare enterprise to access an individual's clinical record
at the point of care, to organize it for the specific needs of
the physician, nurse, laboratory technician or other care
provider on a real-time basis, and to use the information in
management decisions to improve the efficiency and productivity
of the location and the entire enterprise.

Healthcare Industry
- -------------------

          The dramatic increase in healthcare costs in the
United States, which historically were based on a fee-for-
service model, has caused significant changes in the healthcare
industry.  Managed care organizations and other payers have
developed alternative payment models to control costs, including
procedure-based cost limits, contractually approved providers
and capitation (a fixed monthly fee per member in payment for
all required services).  The result has been a continuing shift
of financial risk from the payer to both the physician provider
and the institutional provider (hospitals, clinics, long-term
care, subacute providers and rehabilitative care centers).  In
response, institutional providers are aligning with one another
and with physician groups to form Integrated Delivery Systems
(''IDSs''), and IDSs are aligning with payer organizations to
form Integrated Health Organizations (''IHOs''), in each case in
an effort to compete more effectively in the changing healthcare
environment.

          The changes occurring in the healthcare industry have
resulted in changes in the needs for clinical and management
information systems by hospitals, physicians, managed care
organizations and Integrated Delivery Systems.  Hospitals'
information requirements have become more complex as cost
containment pressures have driven the needs for efficiency and
process automation while the increasing number of relationships
they have with other providers requires additional
sophistication.  As physicians combine into a variety of
provider configurations, management structures and incentive
plans, they are increasingly utilizing member/patient focused
information systems to improve quality and efficiency for their
growing practices and physician networks, to develop the data
necessary to compete for contracts with payers and to be able to
share the financial risks of healthcare delivery.  Managed care
organizations are increasingly recognizing the value of process-
oriented and clinically-driven information as it relates to
understanding and improving the health of their members.
Information system requirements for IDSs and IHOs encompass many
of the same needs as hospitals, physicians and managed care
organizations.  Many IDSs and IHOs are becoming aggressively
involved with institutional providers and physicians in various
relationships where information sharing and process automation
are paramount.  Many of these larger, more complex organizations
are seeking closer relationships with suppliers that can provide
comprehensive information systems solutions.  Information system
requirements for IDSs and IHOs include integrated process-based
systems for clinical domains, data repositories and applications
for physicians and management teams.

Healthcare Information Systems Industry
- ---------------------------------------

          Healthcare information systems are evolving to meet
the needs of a changing marketplace.  Initially, computer
systems developed for use in healthcare were financially
oriented, with a focus on the ability to capture charges and
generate patient bills.  Beginning in the mid-1960s,
institutional provider organizations began to use clinical
information systems, which automate the activities within
clinical departments, such as laboratory, pharmacy, radiology
and surgery departments, to improve the productivity of
resources and automate the production and use of significant
amounts of clinical information.  Individual departments
selected systems based upon specific features on a ''best of
breed'' basis resulting in disparate information systems within
the institutional provider.

          More recently, there has been a shift from the
purchase of disparate clinical systems on a ''best of breed''
basis to systems which are able to integrate communication
effectively throughout the healthcare enterprise.  The two
principal approaches to meet this need are a common
architecture, in which systems communicate through inherent
design, and point-to-point interfaces, in which systems with
different architectures communicate through interface linkages.
This infrastructure trend also affects the relationship between
the health system and the suppliers of information technology.
The approach of interfacing disparate systems typically involves
multiple system suppliers and the health system must act as the
intermediary and integrator.  The common architecture approach
relies more on a strategic relationship with one or very few
suppliers dedicated to implementing a shared vision for the role
of information in the operation of the health system.

          The same forces that are causing other healthcare
providers to join together are causing physicians to combine
into larger organizations, including Independent Practice
Associations (''IPAs'') and Preferred Provider Organizations
(''PPOs'').  In some cases, such organizations align with IDSs
and IHOs.  Cerner believes that such physician groups require
clinical and management information systems that allow them to
participate in the community-wide clinical and management
information systems employed by the IDSs and IHOs.

The Cerner Vision
- -----------------

          As a result of the rapid transformation of the
healthcare industry, Cerner believes that a new center of
healthcare will emerge-the IHO, which is a combination of
payers, physicians and institutional providers, into a single
organization to service a community or defined member
population.  IHOs have the capacity to contract with both the
government and employers to provide healthcare services to
member/patients.  The focus of the IHO is to be accountable for
the health status of a defined population, with strong financial
incentives to manage health on a preventive or wellness basis
and reduce costs.

          Cerner believes that many large IHOs will emerge in
the United States in the next decade.  The creation of IHOs
results from the combination of existing payers, physicians and
institutional providers.  These IHOs will need to implement
information systems that manage the delivery of care across its
entire community while simultaneously managing the business side
of health management.  Only through automating the core process
of healthcare delivery from member enrollment through the
ordering and delivery of care will IHOs be able to actually
manage and measure care.  Process automation will enable
healthcare systems interactively to affect the care that is
delivered throughout the entire system at each point of
delivery.  Cerner believes that managing these integrated
healthcare systems will require the accumulation and refining of
enormous amounts of process-related data in order to monitor
performance against projected plan and to make informed business
decisions.  This process-oriented approach will also provide the
information basis to measure health system performance, in
values known as outcomes, from clinical, functional, process,
member satisfaction and economic perspectives.  When all of the
complex clinical processes that comprise care delivery in IHOs
are automated using fully integrated information systems, it
becomes possible to extend automation to the management
processes of healthcare.

Cerner's HNA Approach
- ---------------------

          The cornerstone of Cerner's information systems
strategy is HNA, the single architecture around which each of
Cerner's products is developed.  This highly scaleable
architecture allows Cerner to meet the clinical and management
information requirements of a healthcare delivery system across
the continuum of care from the physician practice to the IHO.
The value of HNA is the creation of systems that ''intrarelate''
as opposed to being integrated.  Most healthcare organizations
are using some form of information technology to manage their
clinical, financial and administrative operations.  Typically, a
multitude of systems, operating on differing technology
platforms from various suppliers, are used within a single
organization.  These systems rely on a series of interfaces to
transmit information to one another which may inhibit real-time
access to comprehensive patient information.  In addition, the
data collected by disparate systems is usually maintained in a
variety of formats, and is indexed or codified using different
approaches, which dilutes the data's usefulness.

          Cerner's approach to system design is to first
understand the intricate processes of providing care and then to
design systems that support and streamline those processes.
Cerner's system architecture allows its applications to work
together as one system.  Cerner's systems are ''intrarelated'',
which means that they are designed around a single architecture
that automatically organizes and presents information in a
manner relevant to a clinician's decision process.  With
''intrarelated'' systems, all caregivers are kept apprised of
each patient's condition, allowing the activities of the care
team to be more carefully and efficiently orchestrated in an
effort to deliver the highest possible quality of care.

Strategy
- --------

     Key elements of the Company's business strategy include:

          To penetrate the integrated healthcare market.  The
transformation of healthcare delivery must deal with the
changing financial model from fee-for-service to fixed or
controlled fee payments for services provided.  In order to
accomplish the transition, integrated healthcare systems must
decrease costs generally, utilize fewer resources per patient or
member encounter, decrease the amount of care required by
focusing on preventative measures and increase member
populations by attracting additional members through better
quality healthcare and services.  Cerner's process-based,
repository and clinical systems provide the technology to enable
an integrated system to manage healthcare to significantly
reduce costs, improve the efficiency of healthcare delivery and
maintain and improve the quality of healthcare.

          To penetrate the physician market.  As physicians
combine to form organizations such as IPAs and PPOs, they
require clinical and process-based systems to manage the
member/patient care processes within their own practices.  As
such groups align with IDSs and IHOs, they further require
clinical and management information systems that allow them to
share clinical and management processes with these community-
wide systems.  Cerner's systems provide the member/patient data
repositories and clinical and management tools required by
physicians in order for them to participate effectively in the
changing healthcare marketplace.

          To expand its core business.  Cerner expects continued
growth in core business areas, including clinical domain systems
such as PathNet, RadNet and PharmNet, as institutional providers
look to restructure and reengineer these high cost centers
within their IDSs and IHOs.  The Company also intends to market
aggressively Cerner clinical and management information systems
and services, such as RadNet and PharmNet, to its existing
client base.

          To remain committed to a unified architecture.
Because Cerner believes that the constituents in health
management need to work together to benefit defined populations
in a community, the Company has made a commitment to a single
unified architecture as the platform for fully ''intrarelated''
health information and management systems.  This platform
enables Cerner's process-based HNA system to be scaleable on a
linear basis, using either Cerner compatible modules for process-
oriented applications or competitive systems interfaced using
open system protocols.  In addition, the HNA system can be
accessed throughout the enterprise at the point of care, which
improves data integrity, allows for coordination of procedures
at multiple locations and enables reliable communication without
delay.

          To expand its products and services.  Using its HNA
platform, Cerner intends to expand the range of products and
services offered to providers, including IDSs and IHOs, either
through internal development or by acquisitions or joint
ventures.  These new products and services will complement the
systems currently offered, address the emerging information
needs of clients or employ technological advances.  Cerner
believes that major opportunities exist as IHOs begin to include
service organizations and on-line services to the home,
particularly because the member/patient focus of Cerner's
architecture provides the basis for individual electronic
medical records which can be used throughout a member-focused
health system.  In addition, Cerner recognizes the value of the
aggregate database being developed by its broad client base as a
potential means to enable comparative or normative procedure
evaluations as a powerful new tool in the healthcare industry.

Products
- --------

          The Company's products include: (i) process-based
systems, which automate clinical care processes throughout and
between entities; (ii) repository systems, which capture, sort,
present and analyze clinical and process related data; and (iii)
clinical domain systems, which automate complex clinical
processes within specific departments or domains.  These systems
can be acquired individually or as a fully intrarelated health
information system.  The individual systems perform together
even if installed at different times.  Cerner also markets over
200 product options that complement Cerner's major information
systems.

     Process-based Systems

          Cerner's CareNet Care Management System is designed to
automate the entire care process.  It collects, refines,
organizes, and evaluates vast amounts of detailed clinical and
management data.  CareNet enables the data and information to be
used as executable knowledge.  CareNet supports the delivery of
care throughout the enterprise, from acute care settings to
outpatient facilities and ambulatory services.  Care teams,
therefore, can not only treat illness but also proactively
manage the health status of a population.  CareNet also supports
point-of-care (POC) automation, which enables real-time
documentation, simplifies information management, and drives
enhancements to the delivery of care.  It enables the entire
care team to plan and manage individual activities and plans, as
well as measure outcomes and goals.  All care team members have
immediate access to clinical and management information and can
customize plans of care for each patient.  CareNet heightens
communication, optimizes use of time, and eliminates redundant
data entry-all in real-time.

          CareNet consists of five major components: Patient
Management, Order Management, Scheduling Management,
Documentation Management, and Case Management.

          Patient Management is the hub of patient
communications and the link between a lifetime of care episodes
across a spectrum of providers in the community.  It enables
care providers to transfer and discharge patients electronically
as they are actually moving or leaving.  Order Management
simplifies and streamlines the process of order entry, whether
from ad hoc orders or order sets, by communicating orders
electronically.  The system warns of contradictions and
eliminates duplicate orders-all from a single screen.  Charges
also can be automatically generated at various stages within the
order communication process.  Scheduling Management supports
referrals and schedules procedures and appointments for all
providers across all institutions within an organization.
Documentation Management is designed to automate the information
gathering, recording, and reporting activities of the care team.
It eliminates redundant charting and streamlines documentation
by allowing care team members to enter information once and have
it automatically updated throughout the system.  Case Management
plans and orchestrates patient care activities throughout the
care delivery cycle.  When a clinical guideline or plan of care
is activated, it automatically initiates ordering, scheduling,
and documentation.

          Discern Expert is an event-driven, rule-based,
decision support software application integrated with other
Cerner HNA clinical and management information systems.  This
tool allows users to define clinical and management rules that
are applied to events accessing data that is captured or
generated by other HNA applications.  Discern Expert
accomplishes a variety of tasks, including cost reduction,
resource utilization, quality-assurance and risk management.
The users can define the action to be taken by the system
ranging broadly from sending an alert to the appropriate
caregiver to creation, cancellation or suspension of an active
clinical order.

     Repository Systems

          Open Clinical Foundation Data Repository (''OCF'') is
a structured repository of clinical information of
members/patients.  OCF forms the foundation of Cerner's
electronic medical record functionality.  This information can
originate from numerous sources and is maintained in an easily
accessible, standardized format.  OCF can be used on a stand-
alone basis, but is significantly more effective when used as
part of the comprehensive HNA solution.  For most enterprises in
which the various laboratories and ancillaries cooperatively
share data over the entire enterprise, OCF provides a means of
sorting and retrieving data.  With OCF, the amount of on-line
clinical data that are retained in departmental systems can be
significantly reduced.  Furthermore, health enterprises can
scale OCF for a particular clinical area's use and integrate it
into an environment containing products from different
suppliers, including competitors.  The interface specifications
to OCF are available for use by suppliers who comply with the
interface requirements.

          PowerChart is a PC-workstation-based product that
enables care providers to electronically view, organize,
annotate and amend a patient record so that it is presented in a
manner that allows them to navigate through the chart using
patient-provider and encounter relationships.  PowerChart gives
healthcare providers structured access to the clinical
information contained electronically in OCF.  The format of the
on-line patient chart consists of pages displayed from a
patient's computer-based patient record and information
electronically transmitted from connected systems.  Clinicians
are able to browse through pages much the same as with printed
documents.  Clinicians can access documents through tables of
contents or search for terms in the document text.  The scope of
documents available is limited only by the system interfaces to
OCF.

          Open Management Foundation Data Repository (''OMF'')
is a structured repository for process-and activity-related
information useful for management of a healthcare institution.
Information can originate from numerous sources and can be
maintained in an easily accessible, standardized format.  OMF
can be scaled for a particular department's use and can be
integrated into an architecture containing products from
different suppliers.

          PowerVision is a comprehensive, PC-based health
management information system used to view information in OMF in
much the same manner as PowerChart is used with OCF.  This
management access tool presents summary information through a
graphical user interface, making key information available to
all levels of management.  PowerVision is equipped with features
that allow the user to pursue ''what if '' and other
investigatory information paths.  This enables an executive to
determine the status of the institution in many critical areas,
as well as provides managers with a quick, up-to-the-minute view
of leading business management indicators regarding the
performance of a department, care area or facility.

          Open Engine Application Gateway System facilitates the
exchange of data and assists in the management of point-to-point
interfaces between foreign systems and serves as a toolkit to
help clients write interface code.

     Clinical Domain Systems

          PathNet Laboratory Information System addresses the
information management needs of five clinical areas: general
laboratory, microbiology, blood bank transfusion services, blood
bank donor services and anatomic pathology.  PathNet automates
the ordering and reporting of procedures, the production of
accurate and timely reports and the maintenance of accessible
clinical records.  PathNet can be interfaced with automated
instruments and databases, allowing for efficient and accurate
transfer of information.  PathNet communicates laboratory
information to patient care areas and other information systems.
Cerner attributes PathNet's acceptance to its functional
capability, ease of use and event-level cost accounting, which
allows healthcare managers to better control costs and assess
profitability.

          MedNet Internal Medicine Information System is a
family of software products that addresses the clinical
information needs of various internal medicine areas within the
health organization.  Introduced as a pulmonary information
system in 1987, MedNet's functionality now serves the
disciplines of cardiology, neuro-diagnostics, rehabilitation
services and nutritional services, as well as many ancillary
areas.  Like PathNet, MedNet automates procedure requests,
patient and therapist scheduling and the processing, validation
and presentation of results.  The system provides reports on
clinical activity, workload and billing charges by drawing from
the departmental databases.

          RadNet Radiology Information System addresses the
operational and management requirements of diagnostic radiation
and radiation oncology departments.  It allows a department to
replace its manual, paper-based system of record-keeping with an
efficient computer-based system.  RadNet is designed to adapt
easily to the department's existing operations.  In addition,
the system addresses such tasks as scheduling patients,
modifying orders, tracking patients, locating films,
transcribing reports, upgrading the quality and content of
reports and reporting on productivity.

          PharmNet Pharmacy Information System provides
intrarelation in an HNA environment for rapid pharmacy order
entry and support of the clinical pharmacy in either an
inpatient or outpatient setting.  PharmNet streamlines
medication order entry, enabling the pharmacist or technician to
place all types of pharmaceutical orders on one easy-to-use
screen.  Dispensing functions also are fully automated.
Medication, intravenous fill lists and medication administration
records are produced automatically or on demand.  Charges are
automatically captured at the time the fill list is generated.
Patient profiles and pharmaceutical inventories are maintained
without the intervention of the pharmacist, saving significant
time and resources.  Features are designed to address the
special needs of the clinical pharmacy, including on-line order
entry screening for drug-drug interactions, drug-food and drug-
lab interferences, drug-disease states, intravenous
incompatibilities, dose range and therapeutic treatment
duplication.  Clinical notes can be recorded on-line and sent to
other clinicians for comment or follow-up.

          MSmeds Pharmacy Information System focuses on
automating the pharmacy department.  MSmeds was developed by a
company acquired by Cerner in 1993.  MSmeds is sold on a stand-
alone basis, but can be interfaced to the Company's HNA
products.  Designed to meet the specialized and individual needs
of the pharmacy department, MSmeds incorporates windows, on-line
help, menu and table-driven entry, a built-in system
customization tool, and an application generator.  The order
entry application gives the pharmacist fast order entry
capabilities with a high level of quality control.  Safeguards
that ensure the integrity of patient therapy include: dose level
checking by 36 parameters, drug warnings, drug-drug interaction
checking and pharmacokinetics.  The system generates a number of
reports to assure the appropriateness of drug therapy, including
drug interaction, patients on specific drugs, drug utilization
by therapeutic category and dose checking.  On-line storage on
removable disks provides full patient detail for a period of up
to ten years.  MSmeds offers the availability of full detail
patient information for drug utilization evaluation, as well as
labor and cost efficiencies.  Admission, discharge and transfer,
billing, results display and order entry interfaces are
contained within the system.

          SurgiNet Surgery Information System and MRNet Medical
Record Department Information System are scheduled for
commercial release in the first half of 1996.  SurgiNet is
intended to address the needs of the surgical department,
including automating the functions of resource and equipment
scheduling, inventory management and operating room management.
MRNet is intended to help meet the operations management needs
of the medical records department and includes functionality for
the various chart tracking and completion tasks commonly
associated with maintaining medical records.

Software Development
- --------------------

          Cerner commits significant resources to developing new
health information system products.  As of December 30, 1995,
556 employees were engaged full-time in product development
activities.  Total expenditures for the development and
enhancement of the Company's products were approximately
$19,432,000, $26,897,000, and $33,957,000 in 1993, 1994 and
1995, respectively.  These figures include the amounts
capitalized and exclude amounts amortized for financial
reporting purposes.

          The Company expects to continue investment and
development efforts for its current and future product
offerings.  As new clinical and management information needs
emerge, Cerner intends to enhance its current HNA-based product
lines with new versions released to clients on a periodic basis.
In addition, Cerner plans to expand its current product lines by
developing additional information systems for use in clinical
departments and to continue to support simultaneous use of
Cerner's HNA products across multiple facilities.  All Cerner
systems are developed under HNA using a proprietary systems
development methodology.  This methodology defines and controls
each task throughout the product development cycle and ensures
that current and future products can be fully intrarelated.

          The Company is committed to maintaining open
attributes in its system architecture through operability in a
diverse set of technical and application environments.  The
Company strives to design its systems to
co-exist with disparate applications developed and supported by
other suppliers.  This effort is exemplified by Cerner's Open
Engine, OCF and OMF product lines.

          Cerner is developing a new version (referred to as
V500) of its software, which will incorporate a client-server
architecture, a comprehensive graphical user interface and open
systems concepts for relational databases, operating systems,
networks and hardware platforms.  Development of V500 began in
the summer of 1993.  The Company is committed to maintaining
open attributes in its V500 system architecture.  Cerner expects
its V500 applications to run on multiple operating systems,
networks, databases and hardware platforms and to co-exist with
disparate applications developed and supported by other
companies.  Cerner expects to begin installation of V500
applications in the third quarter of 1996.

Sales and Marketing
- -------------------

          The market for Cerner's information system products
includes IHOs, IDSs, physician groups and networks, managed care
organizations, hospitals, free-standing reference laboratories,
blood banks, imaging centers and pharmacies.  To date, a
substantial portion of system sales have been in clinical
applications in hospital-based provider organizations.  Cerner's
architecture is highly scaleable, with applications being used
in hospitals ranging from under 50 beds to over 2,000 beds and
managed care settings with over 2,000,000 members.  All current
HNA systems are designed to operate on computers manufactured by
Digital Equipment Corporation (''Digital'').  In addition, Open
Engine, PathNet, RadNet and MSmeds are available on IBM's RISC
System/6000 AIX (UNIX) platform.  Over time, all HNA
applications will be available on both the Digital and IBM
platforms, thereby allowing Cerner to be price competitive
across the full range of size and organizational structure of
healthcare providers.  The sale of a health information system
usually takes approximately nine to fifteen months, from the
time of initial contact to the signing of a contract.

          The Company's executive marketing management is
located in its Kansas City, Missouri, headquarters, while its
account representatives are deployed through regional offices
across the United States.  The Company, through subsidiaries,
has offices and sales staff in the United Kingdom, Australia,
Germany and Saudi Arabia.  The Company supports its sales force
with technical personnel who perform demonstrations of Cerner's
products and assist clients in determining the proper hardware
and software configurations.  The Company has developed a
demonstration and presentation facility at its headquarters in
Kansas City, Missouri, called the Cerner Vision Center.  This
facility enables the Company to actually demonstrate the
processes automated through HNA and adapt the presentations to
the clients' environments.  The Company's primary direct
marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from its
existing client base and through presentations at industry
seminars and trade shows.  Cerner attends a number of major
trade shows each year and has begun to sponsor executive
conferences, which feature industry experts who address the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.
Consolidated revenues include foreign sales of $8,417,000,
$13,274,000 and $8,823,000 for the years ended December 31, 1993
and 1994, and December 30, 1995, respectively.

Client Services
- ---------------

          Cerner uses a regional strategy to provide the full
range of product and service capabilities to its clients from
eight locations throughout the United States and four
international locations.  Each regional center reflects Cerner's
corporate culture and interfaces with the Company's clients on a
regular and highly accessible basis.  In this way, Cerner can
provide on-site personnel for the development and management of
systems projects, learn the evolving information needs of
clients based on geographical trends in the healthcare industry,
work with clients in the development of new products and
services and share with clients Cerner's vision of the changing
healthcare delivery market and the role of information systems
in that transformation.  The Company has regional offices in
Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, Kansas City, Los Angeles,
Seattle and Washington, D.C. and international offices in Luton,
England; Munich, Germany; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; and Sydney,
Australia.  Each regional office is focused on long-term
marketplace development, product marketing, client project
management, long-term client service and client satisfaction for
a group of clients within a specific geographical region.

          All of Cerner's clients enter into software
maintenance agreements with Cerner for support of their Cerner
systems.  In addition to immediate software support in the event
of problems, these agreements allow these clients the use of new
releases of the Cerner products covered by these agreements.
Each client has 24-hour access to the client support staff
located at Cerner's corporate headquarters.  Most of Cerner's
clients also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with
Cerner.  These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly
fee for specified services.  In the majority of cases, Cerner
subcontracts hardware maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.

Backlog
- -------

          At December 30, 1995 Cerner had contract backlog of
$77,495,000.  Such backlog represents system sales from signed
contracts which have not yet been recognized as revenue.  The
Company recognizes revenue on a percent of completion basis,
based on certain milestone conditions, for its software
products.  At December 30, 1995, the Company had $48,625,000 of
contracts receivable, which represents revenues recognized under
the percent of completion method but not yet billable under the
terms of the contract.  At December 30, 1995, Cerner had a
software support and maintenance backlog of $94,538,000.  Such
backlog represents contracted software support and hardware
maintenance services for a period of twelve months.

Item 2.  Properties

          The Company's offices are located in an office park in
North Kansas City, Missouri.  As of December 30, 1995, the
Company was using approximately 482,000 square feet and
substantially all of the remainder was leased to tenants.  In
December 1995 the Company completed construction of a
combination child care and fitness facility at the office park
for the use of the Company's employees.  The Company believes
that its employees are its most important asset and that this
facility will enable the Company to attract and retain it's
relatively young work force which contains a large number of
married women.  The Company also leases office space for its
branch offices in Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Detroit, Los Angeles,
Seattle and Washington D.C.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

          The Company is not involved in any material pending
litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

          No matters were submitted to a vote of the
stockholders of the Company during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company

          The following table sets forth the names, ages,
positions and certain other information regarding the Company's
executive officers as of March 1, 1996.  Officers are elected
annually and serve at the discretion of the board of directors.



          Neal L. Patterson was President, Chairman of the Board
of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from its
incorporation to May 1987.  Since May 1987 he has been Chairman
of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company.  Mr. Patterson has served as a director of Home Office
Reference Laboratory since August 1988.

          Clifford W. Illig was Executive Vice President,
Secretary, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and a Director
of the Company from its incorporation to May 1987.  From May
1987 to May 1993, he was a Director, President, Chief Operating
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  Since May
1993, he has been a Director, President and Chief Operating
Officer.

          Charles S. Runnion, III joined the Company in July
1989 and since that date has been an Executive Vice President
and Director of the Company.  Prior to working at the Company,
he spent fourteen years with the IBM Corporation in a variety of
marketing and management positions.

          David M. Margulies, M.D. joined the Company in
February 1991 and since that date has been an Executive Vice
President of the Company.  Prior to joining the Company, for
four years, he was Vice President in charge of information
systems at Children's Hospital, a healthcare institution located
in Boston, Massachusetts.  During this time Dr. Margulies also
was the Director of the Program in Medical Information Sciences
at Harvard Medical School.  Dr. Margulies has served as a
Director of the Company since May 1991.

          Jeffrey C. Reene joined the Company in September 1991
as Group Vice President of Client Services.  He was promoted to
Executive Vice President in June of 1994.  Prior to joining the
Company, he was with Andersen Consulting from July 1978 to
August 1991, being a Partner with Andersen Consulting since
September, 1988.

          Jack A. Newman, Jr. joined the Company in January 1996
as Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Cerner 2000.
Prior to joining the Company, he was with KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
for 22 years.  Most recently he was National Partner-in-Charge of
of KPMG's Health Care Strategy Practice, leading more than 200
professional and administrative staff members who provided strategy
consulting services to healthcare clients nationwide, including
healthcare systems, physician groups, managed care plans, and other
provider and payor organizations.

          Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D. joined the Company in November 
1995 and has been a Director of the Company since May 1989.  Prior
to joining the Company, Dr. Tinstman was Director of Medical
Informatics with University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston,
Texas.  Prior to that he was a physician in private practice with
Internal Medicine Associates, P.C. in Omaha, Nebraska.  From 1977
to January, 1994, Dr. Tinstman served as Assciate Medical Director
of Pulmonary Medical Services at Bishop Clarkson Memorial Hospital
and as Medical Director of the Respiratory Therapy Department of
Midland Hospital, both in Omaha, Nebraska.  Dr. Tinstman has served
as a director of Smith-Haynes Trust, Inc. since 1988.

          Alan D. Dietrich joined the Company in 1990 as
Director of Business, Planning and Development.  In January 1994
he was promoted to Vice President.  Prior to joining the
Company, he spent seven years with IBM Corporation.

          Charles O. Whitcraft joined the Company as Vice
President of Technology in January 1984.  Since that time he has
served in several executive positions dealing with technology
and engineering.

          Gary W. Willett joined the Company in April 1990 as
Group Vice President of Client Services and has served in
various executive capacities.  Prior to joining the Company, he
spent twenty-one years with IBM Corporation in a variety of
marketing and management positions.

          Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as 
Manager of Taxes.  In November 1995 he was elected Chief Financial
Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President.
Prior to joining the Company, he spent nine years with The Marley
Company, a multinational manufacturing company, in a variety of
financial management positions.




PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
         Security Holder Matters

          The Company's common stock trades on the Nasdaq
National Market tier of the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
CERN.  The following table sets forth the high, low, and last
sales prices for the fiscal quarters of 1995 and 1994 as
reported by the Nasdaq National Market System.  These quotations
represent prices between dealers and do not include retail mark-
up, mark-down, or commissions, and do not necessarily represent
actual transactions.



          At February 10, 1996, there were approximately 1,300
owners of record.  To date, the Company has paid no dividends
and it does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable
future.  Management believes it is in the stockholders' best
interest to reinvest funds in the operation of the business.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

 

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations

For a more thorough understanding of management's analysis of
results of operations and financial condition, the following
discussion should be read in conjunction with the Letter to
Shareholders and the discussion of the Company's business
operations.

Year Ended December 30, 1995 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1994

Results of Operations - The Company's revenues increased 20% to
$186,901,000 in 1995, from $155,917,000 in 1994.  Net earnings
increased 15% to $22,521,000 in 1995 from $19,501,000 in 1994.
Net earnings from the Company's foreign operations decreased
195% to a loss of $1,867,000 in 1995 from earnings of
$1,973,000 in 1994.

Revenues - In 1995, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased 20% to $129,917,000 in 1995, from $108,322,000 in
1994.  This increase in system sales resulted principally from
an increase in installations under HNA contracts and additional
hardware and software sales to the Company's existing client
base.  HNA contracts were 42% of total system sales in 1995,
compared to 37% in 1994.  The sale of additional hardware and
software products to the installed client base increased 36% in
1995 and 40% in 1994.

The Company has seen a significant increase in the number of
clients who have purchased two or more clinical system units on
their initial contract, or clients from the installed base who
purchase one or more system units subsequent to their initial
contract.  Total sales to the installed base in 1995, including
new systems, incremental hardware and software, and recurring
and discrete services, were 71% of total revenues in 1995
compared to 73% in 1994.

At December 30, 1995, the Company had $77,495,000 in contract
backlog and $94,538,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $57,547,000 in contract backlog and $77,222,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1994.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 19% in 1995 compared
to 24% in 1994.  These revenues represented 26% of 1995 total
revenues and 27% of 1994 total revenues.

Other revenues increased 22% to $7,633,000 in 1995 from
$6,273,000 in 1994.  This increase was due primarily to twelve
months of real estate lease revenues from the rental to outside
tenants as compared to eight months of lease revenues in 1994;
space in the Company's headquarters complex not currently being
utilized by the Company is leased to outside tenants.

Cost of Revenues - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost
of revenues was 28% of total revenues in 1995 and 30% of total
revenues in 1994.  Such costs, as a percent of revenues,
typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware,
and support) components carrying different margin rates changes
from period to period.  The decrease in the cost of revenue as a
percent of total revenues resulted principally from an increase
in multiproduct projects which carry a lower cost of revenue
percentage.

Sales and Client Service -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing salaries, tradeshow costs, and advertising
costs.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 27%
in 1995 compared to 26% in 1994.  The increase in total sales
and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a
larger field sales and services organization and marketing of
new products.

Software Development - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1995 and 1994
were $33,957,000 and $26,897,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$9,210,000 and $8,131,000 for 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1995 is due to development of more clinical information system
products to complement the existing product line.  The
percentage of costs capitalized is expected to remain fairly
constant as the Company continues to develop new products.

General and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 9% in
1995 and 8% in 1994.

Interest Expense - Net interest expense was considerably lower
in 1995 than in 1994.  This decrease was due primarily to
interest income from investment of  the proceeds from the sale
of 3,716,000 new shares of common stock from the August 1995
public offering.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective tax rates were 39.4% and
39.9% for 1995 and 1994, respectively, which were not
significantly different from the combined federal and state
statutory rates.

Year Ended December 31, 1994 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1993

Results of Operations - The Company's revenues increased 29% to
$155,917,000 in 1994, from $120,572,000 in 1993.  Net earnings
increased 34% to $19,501,000 in 1994 from $14,558,000 in 1993.
Net earnings from the Company's foreign operations increased
110% to $1,973,000 in 1994 from $938,000 in 1993.

Revenues - In 1994, revenues increased due to an increase in
system sales and support of installed systems.  System sales
increased 29% to $108,322,000 in 1994 from $84,024,000 in 1993.
This increase in system sales resulted principally from an
increase in installations under HNA contracts and additional
hardware and software sales to the Company's existing client
base.  HNA contracts were 37% of total system sales in 1994,
compared to 30% in 1993.  The sale of additional hardware and
software products to the installed client base increased 40% in
1994 and 9% in 1993.

The Company has seen a significant increase in the number of
clients who have purchased two or more clinical system units on
their initial contract, or clients from the installed base who
purchase one or more system units subsequent to their initial
contract.  Total sales to the installed base in 1994, including
new systems, incremental hardware and software, and recurring
and discrete services, were  73% in 1994 compared to 63% in
1993.

At December 31, 1994, the Company had $57,547,000 in contract
backlog and $77,222,000 in support and maintenance backlog,
compared to $42,183,000 in contract backlog and $57,341,000 in
support and maintenance backlog at the end of 1993.

Support and maintenance revenues increased 24% in 1994 and 25%
in 1993.  These revenues represented 27% of 1994 total revenues
and 28% of total 1993 total revenues.

Other revenues increased 87% to $6,273,000 in 1994 from
$3,348,000 in 1993.  This increase was due primarily to real
estate lease revenues from the rental to outside tenants of
space in the Company's headquarters complex not currently being
utilized by the Company.

Cost of Revenues - The cost of revenues includes the cost of
computer hardware and sublicensed software purchased from
computer and software manufacturers for delivery to clients.  It
also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed
software support subcontracted to the manufacturers.  The cost
of revenues was 30% of total revenues in 1994 and 36% in 1993.
Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as
the mix of revenue (software, hardware, and support) components
carrying different margin rates changes from period to period.
The decrease in the cost of revenue as a percent of total
revenues resulted principally from an increase in multiproduct
projects which carry a lower cost of revenue percentage.

Sales and Client Service -  Sales and client service expenses
include salaries of client service personnel, communications
expenses, and unreimbursed travel expenses.  Also included are
sales and marketing salaries, tradeshow costs, and advertising
costs.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 26%
and 23% in 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Increases in total
sales and client service expenses are attributable to the cost
of a larger field sales and services organization, marketing of
new products, and international marketing initiatives.

Software Development - Software development expenses include
salaries, documentation, and other direct expenses incurred in
product development and amortization of software development
costs.  Total expenditures for software development, including
both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 1994 and 1993
were $26,897,000 and $19,432,000, respectively.  These amounts
exclude amortization.  Capitalized software costs were
$8,131,000 and $6,181,000 for 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The
increase in aggregate expenditures for software development in
1994 was due to development of more clinical information system
products to complement the existing product line.  The
percentage of costs capitalized should remain fairly constant as
the Company continues to develop new products.

General and Administrative - General and administrative expenses
include salaries for corporate, financial, and administrative
staffs, utilities, communications expenses, and professional
fees.  These expenses as a percent of total revenues were 8% and
7% for  1994 and 1993, respectively.

Interest Expense - Net interest expense was considerably higher
in 1994 than 1993.  This increase in interest expense was due to
financing the $20,000,000 purchase of the Company's headquarters
complex.  The financing initially consisted of a term loan for
$17,425,000, with the remainder provided by additional borrowing
under the Company's revolving line of credit.  On July 29, 1994,
the Company issued $30,000,000 in Senior Notes bearing an
interest rate of 8.3%.  The proceeds of the Senior Notes were
used to repay the term loan and reduce the outstanding
borrowings under the revolving line of credit.  The remaining
proceeds will be used for capital improvements to the
headquarters complex.  The higher interest expense was offset by
a reduction in the Company's rent expense and an increase in
lease revenues from unrelated parties.

Income Taxes - The Company's effective tax rates were 39.9% and
39.6% for 1994 and 1993, respectively, which were not
significantly different from the combined federal and state
statutory rates.

Quarterly Results

Quarterly Results - The Company's quarterly revenues and net
earnings historically have been variable and cyclical.  The
variability is attributable primarily to the number and size of
project milestone events in any fiscal quarter.  The Company
expects the fluctuation in quarterly financial results to
continue.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity and Capital Resources - The Company's liquidity
position remains strong, with total cash and cash equivalents of
$8,640,000 and short-term investments of $103,478,000 at
December 30, 1995 and working capital of $174,064,000 compared
to cash and cash equivalents of $5,984,000 and short-term
investments of $9,321,000 at December 31, 1994, and working
capital of $52,370,000.  During August 1995, the Company sold
3,716,000 shares of common stock in a public offering.  The
proceeds of this sale, net of underwriting discounts and
commissions and expenses, were $108,287,000.  Prior to the
public offering the Company financed its operations, capital
expenditures (other than the purchase of the Kansas City
headquarters complex and its related capital improvements), and
working capital from internally generated funds and bank
borrowings.  The Company has $18,000,000 of long-term, revolving
credit from banks, all of which was available as of December 30,
1995.

On April 19, 1994, the Company purchased its Kansas City
headquarters complex for $20,000,000.  The purchase was
initially funded by bank borrowings.  The purchase has no
material effect on operating cash flow, since the reduction in
lease payments and increase in net rental income approximates
the debt service payments.

On July 29, 1994, the Company issued $30,000,000 of Senior
Notes, due in 2004.  The proceeds were used to repay the bank
borrowings related to the purchase of the Company's headquarters
complex and retire existing debt.  The interest is paid
semiannually; principal is due in five equal installments
beginning in 2000.

The Company generated cash of $15,329,000, $18,949,000, and
$15,856,000, from operations in 1995, 1994, and 1993,
respectively.  Cash flow from operations in 1994 increased
primarily because of the increase in net earnings and decreased
in 1995 due primarily to an increase in receivables.

Revenues provided under support and maintenance agreements of
the Company represent recurring cash flows.  Support and
maintenance revenues increased 19%, 24%, and 25% in 1995, 1994,
and 1993, respectively, and the Company expects these revenues
to continue to grow as the base of installed systems grows.

The Company believes its present cash and cash equivalent
position, together with cash generated from operations and the
current bank borrowing facility, will be sufficient to meet
anticipated cash requirements.

Inflation -  The effects of inflation were minimal on the
Company's business.

Recent Accounting Pronouncement - Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" (Statement 123) will require pro forma disclosures
in 1996 of net income and earnings per share as if a new
accounting method based on estimated fair value of employee
stock options had been adopted.  The Company has not yet decided
if the optional accounting treatment proposed, Statement 123,
will be adopted.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

          The Financial Statements and Notes required by this
Item are submitted as a separate part of this report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure

          None.





PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

          The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 14, 1996, contains under the caption "Election of Directors"
certain information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such
information is incorporated herein by this reference.  The
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive
officers is set forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

          The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 14, 1996, contains under the caption "Compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" certain
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such
information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

          The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 14, 1996, contains under the caption "Executive
Compensation" the information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference
(except that the information set forth under the following sub
captions is expressly excluded from such incorporation:
"Executive Compensation and Stock Option Committee Report" and
"Company Performance").

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management

          The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 14, 1996, contains under the caption "Voting Securities and
Principal Holders Thereof" the information required by Item 12
of Form 10-K and such information is incorporated herein by this
reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

          The Registrant's Proxy Statement to be used in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 14, 1996, contains under the caption "Certain Transactions"
the information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K and such
information is incorporated herein by this reference.





PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
          on Form 8-K

     (a)  Financial Statements.

          (1)  Consolidated Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial
               Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets -
               December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994

               Consolidated Statements of Earnings -
               Years Ended December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994 and 1993

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
               Equity - Years Ended December 30, 1995, and December 31,
               1994 and 1993

               Consolidated Statements of Cash
               Flows - Years Ended December 30, 1995, and December 31,
               1994 and 1993

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          (2)  The following financial statement,
               schedule and independent auditors' report
               on financial statement schedule of the
               Registrant for the three-year period ended
               December 30, 1995 are included herein:

               Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts,

               Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
               Financial Statement Schedule.
          
          All other schedules are omitted, as the required
information is inapplicable or the information is presented in
the consolidated financial statements or related notes.

          (3)  The exhibits required to be filed by
               this item are set forth below:

Number    Description
- ------    -----------

3(a)(i)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended
          through December 31, 1993, (filed as Exhibit 3(a) to
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1993 and hereby incorporated by
          reference).

3(a)(ii)  Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
          (filed as Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and
          hereby incorporated by reference).

3(b)      Bylaws, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3 to the
          Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six
          months ended June 30, 1995, and hereby incorporated by
          reference).

4(a)      Reference is made to the Restated Certificate of
          Incorporation and Bylaws of Registrant described above
          under 3(a) and 3(b), respectively.

4(b)      Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit 4(a)
          to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8
          (File No. 33-15156) and hereby incorporated herein by
          reference).

4(c)      Note Agreement between Cerner Corporation,
          Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company,  and
          Principal National Life Insurance Company dated July
          1, 1994, (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1994, and hereby incorporated by
          reference.

4(d)      Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation,
          Cerner Properties, Inc. Mark Twain Kansas Bank, and
          Harris Trust & Savings Bank dated April 18, 1994,
          (filed as Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
          1994, and hereby incorporated by reference).

10(a)     Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990,
          between Clifford W. Illig and Registrant (filed as an
          Exhibit to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1990, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(b)     Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990,
          between Neal L. Patterson and Registrant (filed as an
          Exhibit to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1990, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(c)     Standard Volume Agreement, dated July 6, 1989,
          between Digital Equipment Corporation and Registrant
          (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(d)     Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant
          (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(e)     Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant
          and Neal L. Patterson, Clifford W. Illig, Gerald E.
          Bisbee, Jr., David J. Hart, Thomas C. Tinstman, David
          M. Margulies and Charles S. Runnion, III (filed as
          Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's Annual report on Form 10-
          K for the year ended December 31, 1992, and
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(f)     Amended Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan of
          Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          July 1, 1995, and hereby incorporated herein by
          reference).*

10(g)     Employment Agreement dated February 22, 1991,
          between Cerner Corporation and David M. Margulies,
          M.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(1) to Registrant's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1991, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(h)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement (Non-Standard
          Vesting) dated February 22, 1991, between Cerner
          Corporation and David M. Margulies, M.D. (filed as
          Exhibit 10(m) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
          K for the year ended December 31, 1991, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(i)     Stock Option Agreement (Non-Qualified-Milestone)
          dated February 22, 1991, between Cerner Corporation
          and David M. Margulies, M.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(n)
          to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1991, and hereby incorporated
          herein by reference).*

10(j)     Cerner East Deferred Payout Plan dated March 7,
          1991, for the benefit David M. Margulies, M.D. and
          Edwin D. Trautman (filed as Exhibit 10(o) to
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1991, and hereby incorporated
          herein by reference).*

10(k)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated
          February 19, 1991, between Cerner Corporation and
          David J. Hart (filed as Exhibit 10(q) to Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
          31, 1991, and hereby incorporated herein by
          reference).*

10(l)     Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 1990,
          between Cerner Corporation and Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr.
          (filed as Exhibit 10(r) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(m)     Stock Option Agreement dated May 15, 1990,
          between Cerner Corporation and Thomas C. Tinstman
          (filed as Exhibit 10(s) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(n)     Cerner Performance Plan for 1994 (filed as
          Exhibit 10(u) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-
          K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(o)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated July
          20, 1994, between the Registrant and Alan E. Dietrich
          (filed as Exhibit 10(o) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(p)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated September
          12, 1990, between the Registrant and Alan E. Dietrich
          (filed as Exhibit 10(p) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(q)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated August 22,
          1991, between the Registrant and Jeffrey C. Reene
          (filed as Exhibit 10(q) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(r)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated May 15,
          1990, between the Registrant and Gary W. Willett
          (filed as Exhibit 10(r) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(s)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated February 27,
          1985, between the Registrant and Charles O.
          Whitcraft (filed as Exhibit 10(s) to Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
          31, 1994, and hereby incorporated herein by
          reference).*

10(t)     Incentive Stock Option Agreement dated May 15,
          1990, between the Registrant and Charles O. Whitcraft
          (filed as Exhibit 10(t) to Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).*

10(u)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the
          Registrant and Michael E. Herman (filed as Exhibit
          10(b) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
          Q for the quarter ended July 1, 1995, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(v)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the
          Registrant and Clifford W. Illig (filed as Exhibit
          10(c) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
          Q for the quarter ended July 1, 1995, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(w)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the
          Registrant and Neal L. Patterson (filed as Exhibit
          10(d) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-
          Q for the quarter ended July 1, 1995, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).*

10(x)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the
          Registrant and Jack A. Newman, Jr.*

10(y)     Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between the
          Registrant and Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D.*

10(z)     Cerner Performance Plan for 1995.*

10(aa)    Real Estate Sales Contract dated April 18, 1994,
          between Northtown Devco and Cerner Corporation (filed
          as Exhibit 10(c) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, and
          hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(bb)(i)  Standard Form of Agreement between Owner and
           Contractor dated September 1, 1994, between Cerner
           Properties, Inc. and J. E. Dunn Construction Company
           (filed as Exhibit 10(w)(i) to Registrant's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
           1994, and hereby incorporated herein by reference).

10(bb)(ii)  Supplement to General Conditions of the
            Contractor for Construction dated September 1, 1994,
            between Cerner Properties, Inc. and J. E. Dunn
            Construction Company (filed as Exhibit 10(w)(ii) to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1994, and hereby incorporated
            herein by reference).

10(bb)(iii)  Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement dated October 24,
             1994, between Cerner Properties, Inc. and J. E.
             Dunn Construction Company (filed as Exhibit 10(w)(iii)
             to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
             year ended December 31, 1994, and hereby incorporated
             herein by reference).

10(cc)    Standard Form of Agreement Between Owner and Architect
          dated April 29, 1994, between Cerner Properties, Inc.
          and The Hollis & Miller Group, Inc. (filed as Exhibit
          10(x) to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1994, and hereby
          incorporated herein by reference).

11        Computation of Registrant's Earnings Per Share.

22        Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23        Consent of Independent Auditors.

27        Financial Data Schedule.

* Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
  required to be identified by Item 14(a)(3).

          (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed by Registrant during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

          (c)  Exhibits.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted
as a separate section of this report.

          (d)  Financial Statement Schedules.

          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted
as a separate section of this report.





                           SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              CERNER CORPORATION


Dated:  March 28, 1996             By: /s/Neal L. Patterson
        --------------                ---------------------
                                      Neal L. Patterson
                                      Chairman of the Board and
                                      Chief Executive Officer


            Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below  by  the
following  persons  on  behalf of  the  registrant  and  in  the
capacities and on the dates indicated:

          Signature and Title                          Date
          -------------------                          ----


/s/Neal L. Patterson                                   March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)



/s/Clifford W. Illig                                   March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Clifford W. Illig, President, Chief
  Operating Officer and Director



/s/Marc G. Naughton                                    March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Marc G. Naughton, Principal Financial
  and Accounting Officer



/s/David M. Margulies, M.D.                            March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
David M. Margulies, M.D., Director



/s/Michael E. Herman                                   March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Michael E. Herman, Director




          Signature and Title                          Date
          -------------------                          ----


/s/Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr.                               March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Director



/s/Charles S. Runnion, III                             March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Charles S. Runnion, III, Director



/s/Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D.                            March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
Thomas C. Tinstman, M.D., Director



/s/David J. Hart                                       March 28, 1996
- ------------------------------                         --------------
David J. Hart, Director





Independent Auditors' Report
- ----------------------------------------------------------------


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cerner Corporation:



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 30, 1995 and
December 31, 1994, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 30, 1995.  These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of December
30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 30, 1995, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 10, 1996





Management's Report
- ----------------------------------------------------------------


The management of Cerner Corporation is responsible for the
consolidated financial statements and all other information
presented in this report.  The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances, and, therefore,
included in the financial statements are certain amounts based
on management's informed estimates and judgments.  Other
financial information in this report is consistent with that in
the consolidated financial statements.  The consolidated
financial statements have been audited by Cerner Corporation's
independent certified public accountants and have been reviewed
by the audit committee of the Board of Directors.





Consolidated Balance Sheets
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994






Consolidated Statements of Earnings
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and 1993






Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and 1993







Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and 1993







Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------


1    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)  Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Cerner Corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

(b)  Revenue Recognition - Revenues are derived primarily from
the sale of clinical information systems.  In addition, revenue
is generated from servicing installed clinical information
systems, which generally include support of software and
maintenance of hardware.  The Company also derives revenue from
the sale of computer hardware.

Clinical information system sales contracts are negotiated
separately and generally include the licensing of the Company's
clinical information system software and the sale of computer
hardware.  Clinical information system sales contracts are
noncancelable and provide for a right of return only in the
event the system fails to meet the performance criteria set
forth in the contracts.  The Company recognizes revenue from
sales of clinical information systems using a percentage-of-
completion method based on meeting key milestone events over the
term of the contracts in accordance with Statement of Position
91-1, "Software Revenue Recognition."

Revenue from the licensing of additional software is recognized
upon installation at the client's site.  Revenue from the sale
of computer hardware is recognized upon shipment.  Revenue from
ongoing software support and equipment maintenance is recognized
as the services are rendered.

(c)  Software Development Costs - Costs incurred internally in
creating computer software products are expensed until
technological feasibility has been established upon completion
of a detail program design.  Thereafter, all software
development costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at
the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.
Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and future
revenue for each product with minimum annual amortization equal
to the straight-line amortization over the estimated economic
life of the product.  The Company is amortizing capitalized
costs on a straight-line basis over five years.  During the
years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994 and 1993, the
Company capitalized $9,210,000, $8,131,000, and $6,181,000,
respectively, of total software development costs of
$33,957,000,  $26,897,000,  and $19,432,000, respectively.
Amortization expense of capitalized software development costs
for the years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and
1993, was $5,109,000, $3,918,000, and $2,652,000, respectively,
and accumulated amortization was $18,963,000, $13,854,000, and
$9,936,000, respectively.

(d)  Inventory - Inventory consists primarily of computer
hardware held for resale and is recorded at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(e)  Property and Equipment - Property, equipment, and leasehold
improvements are stated at cost.  Depreciation of property and
equipment is computed using the straight-line method over
periods of 5 to 39 years.  Amortization of leasehold
improvements is computed using a straight-line method over the
lease terms, which range from periods of two to five years.

(f)  Earnings Per Share - Earnings per share is based on the
weighted average number of common shares and common share
equivalents outstanding.  Common share equivalents consist of
shares issuable upon exercise of stock options using the
treasury stock method.  The computation of fully diluted
earnings per share reflects additional dilution under the
treasury stock method when the Company's stock price at the end
of a reporting period exceeds the average price.  Fully diluted
earnings per share is not materially different from primary
earnings per share.  Weighted average shares outstanding
utilized in the computation of primary earnings per share were
31,448,053, 29,762,208, and 29,158,356, and fully diluted
earnings per share were 31,448,053, 29,807,504, and 29,285,798,
for the years ended December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and
1993, respectively.

(g)  Stock Split - On July 17, 1995, the Company's Board of
Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a
one hundred percent (100%) stock dividend payable on August 4,
1995, to stockholders of record July 24, 1995.  All share and
per share data have been restated for all periods presented
herein to reflect the stock split.

(h)  Foreign Currency - Assets and liabilities in foreign
currencies are translated into dollars at rates prevailing at
the balance sheet date.  Revenues and expenses are translated at
average rates for the year.  The net exchange differences
resulting from these translations are reported in stockholders'
equity.  Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
transactions are included in the consolidated statements of
earnings.  The net gain (loss) resulting from foreign currency
transactions was $33,000, $107,000, and ($83,000), in 1995,
1994, and 1993, respectively.

(i)  Income Taxes - Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered
or settled.

(j)  Goodwill - Excess of cost over net assets acquired
(goodwill) is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
eight years.  Accumulated amortization was $1,355,000 at
December 30, 1995 and $916,000 at December 31, 1994.  The
Company assesses the recoverability of goodwill based on
forecasted undiscounted future operating cash flows.

(k)  Reclassifications - Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

(l)  Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

2    Acquisition

On November 1, 1993, the Company completed the acquisition of
Megasource, Inc. through the merger of Megasource, Inc. into a
new wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  The Company issued
519,540 shares of common stock, valued at approximately
$6,773,000, in the merger.  Megasource, Inc. was engaged in the
design, sale, and support of several clinical information
systems, the most significant of which was its pharmacy system.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase with the
operating results of Megasource, Inc. included in the Company's
consolidated statement of earnings from November 1, 1993.  The
Company has determined that the consolidated results of
operations as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning
of 1993 would have had no material effect on the overall results
of the Company.

3    Cash and Short-term investments

Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments consist of
the following:



On January 1, 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" (Statement 115).
Under Statement 115, debt and marketable equity securities are
classified in one of three categories:  trading, available for
sale or held-to-maturity.  The Company classifies all of its
investment securities as held-to-maturity.  Held-to-maturity
securities are those securities in which the Company has the
positive intent and ability to hold until maturity.  Held-to-
maturity securities are recorded at cost, adjusted for the
amortization or accretion of premiums or discounts.  There was
no financial statement impact upon adoption of Statement 115.

All cash equivalents and short-term investments held at December
30, 1995 mature within 90 days.  The amortized cost of cash
equivalents and short-term investments approximates fair value.

4    Receivables

Receivables consist of accounts receivable and contracts
receivable.  Accounts receivable represent recorded revenues
that have been billed.  Contracts receivable represent recorded
revenues that are billable by the Company at future dates under
the terms of a contract with a client.  Contract receivables
that are not expected to be collected within one year are
classified as noncurrent.  Billings on contracts in excess of
related revenues recognized under the percentage of completion
method are recorded as advanced billings.   A summary of current
receivables is as follows:



Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and related
support and maintenance of the Company's clinical information
systems to healthcare providers located throughout the United
States and in certain foreign countries.  Included in
receivables at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, are
amounts due from healthcare providers located in foreign
countries of $3,821,000 and $3,777,000 respectively.
Consolidated revenues include foreign sales of $8,823,000,
$13,274,000, and $8,417,000, for the years ended December 30,
1995, December 31, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

The Company provides an allowance for estimated uncollectible
accounts based upon historical experience and management's
judgment.  At December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 the
estimated allowance for uncollectible accounts was $1,109,000
and $734,000, respectively.

The fair value of the Company's noncurrent receivables is
estimated to be $3,808,000, based on current interest rates
offered to the Company for debt of the same maturities.

5    Property and Equipment

A summary of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements
stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization,
is as follows:



6    Indebtedness

The Company has a loan agreement with two banks which provides
for a long-term revolving line of credit for working capital
purposes.  The long-term revolving line of credit is unsecured
and requires monthly payments of interest only.  Interest is
payable at the Company's option at a rate based on prime (8.5%
at December 30, 1995) or LIBOR plus 1.75% (7.59% at December 30,
1995).  The interest rate may be reduced by up to .5% if certain
net worth ratios are maintained.  At December 30, 1995, the
Company had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement and
had $18,000,000 available for working capital purposes.  The
agreement contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed
charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on
the Company's ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and
pay dividends.  A commitment fee of 3/16% is payable quarterly
on the unused portion of the revolving line of credit.

The Company also had a loan agreement with two banks that
provided for a term loan of $17,425,000 to fund the $20,000,000
purchase of its Kansas City headquarters complex.  On July 29,
1994, the Company issued $30,000,000 of Senior Notes.  The note
proceeds were used to repay the term loan, which then
terminated, and reduce borrowings under the revolving line of
credit.

The Senior Notes are payable in five equal annual installments
beginning in August 2000.  Interest is payable on February 1 and
August 1 at a rate of 8.3%.  The note agreement contains certain
net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants
and provides certain restrictions on the Company's ability to
borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.

The fair value of the Company's Senior Notes is estimated to be
$32,400,000, based on the quoted market prices for similar
issues offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining
maturities.  The Company estimates that the fair value of the
long-term portion of capital leases approximates the carrying
value.

Long-term debt is as follows:



Scheduled maturities of long-term debt (in thousands) at
December 30, 1995, are as follows:

                                            
               Years                        
               ------------
                                            
               1996                 $    130
               1997                      104
               2000 and thereafter    30,000
                                    --------
                                    $ 30,234
                                    --------
                                    --------


7    Interest Income and Expense

A summary of interest income and expense is as follows:




8    Stock Options

The Company has three incentive stock option plans and a non-
qualified stock option plan.  Stock Option Plan A (Plan A) was
approved by the Board of Directors on September 20, 1983, and
expired on September 20, 1993.  Stock Option Plan B (Plan B) was
approved by the Board of Directors on November 30, 1983, and
expired on November 30, 1993.  Stock Option Plan C (Plan C) was
approved by the Board of Directors on May 18, 1993.  Stock
Option Plan D (Plan D), formerly the Non-Qualified Stock Option
Plan, was approved by the Board of Directors on February 19,
1991.

All associate stock options authorized under Plan A were granted
prior to December 31, 1983.  Options granted under Plan A were
exercisable through September 20, 1993, at $.19 per share (fair
market value on the date of grant) and contained restrictions as
to transferability and exercisability after termination of
employment.  Transactions for associate stock options under Plan
A are summarized as follows:



Under Plan B, the Company could grant to associates options to
purchase shares of common stock through November 30, 1993.  The
options are exercisable at the fair market value on the date of
grant for a period determined by the Board of Directors (not
more than ten years from the date granted).  The options contain
restrictions as to transferability and exercisability after
termination of employment.  Transactions for associate stock
options under Plan B are summarized as follows:



Under Plan C, the Company may grant to associates options to
purchase shares of common stock through May 18, 2003.  The
options are exercisable at the fair market value on the date of
grant for a period determined by the Board of Directors (not
more than ten years from the date granted).  The options contain
restrictions as to transferability and exercisability after
termination of employment.  Transactions for associate stock
options under Plan C are summarized as follows:



     
Under Plan D, the Company may grant to associates, consultants,
or advisors options to purchase shares of common stock through
January 1, 2000.  The options are exercisable at a price and
during a period determined by the Stock Option Committee.
Options under this plan currently vest over periods of up to ten
years.

Transactions under Plan D and other non-qualified stock option
agreements are summarized as follows:



Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" (Statement 123) will require pro
forma disclosures in 1996 of net income and earnings per share
as if a new accounting method based on estimated fair value of
employee stock options had been adopted.  The Company has not
yet decided if the optional accounting treatment proposed,
Statement 123, will be adopted.

9    Income Taxes

Income taxes for the years ended December 30, 1995 and December 31,
1994, and 1993, consist of the following:



Included in 1993 deferred income tax expense is approximately
$88,000 resulting from the increase in the statutory tax rate.

Temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities that give rise
to significant portions of deferred income taxes at December 30,
1995 and December 31, 1994, relate to the following:



The valuation allowance for 1995 and 1994 was $1,189,000 and
$404,000 respectively.  The valuation allowance is attributable
to the continued uncertainty of the future realization of
deferred tax assets generated mainly from losses recorded by
certain foreign operations.

The effective income tax rates for 1995, 1994, and 1993 were
39.4%, 39.9%, and 39.6%, respectively.  These effective rates
differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% in 1995, 1994, and
1993 as follows:



Income taxes payable at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994
and 1993,  are reduced by the tax benefit resulting from
disqualifying dispositions of stock acquired under the Company's
stock option plans.  The 1995, 1994, and 1993 benefits of
$3,325,000, $1,000,000, and $3,200,000, respectively, are
treated as increases to additional paid-in capital.  Income
taxes payable as December 30, 1995 are also reduced by the use
of separate return net operating losses.  The 1995 tax benefit
of $431,000 was treated as a reduction in goodwill.

10   Associate Stock Purchase Retirement Plan

The Company established the Cerner Corporation Associate Stock
Purchase Retirement Plan (the Plan) under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  All full-time associates are eligible to
participate.  Participants may elect to make pre-tax
contributions from 1% to 15% of compensation to the Plan,
subject to annual limitations determined by the Internal Revenue
Service.  Participants may direct contributions into mutual
funds, a money market fund, or a Company stock fund.  The
Company makes matching contributions to the Plan, on behalf of
participants, in an amount equal to 20% of the participant's
contribution, limited to a maximum of $600 per participant.  The
Company's expense for the plan amounted to $431,000, $316,000,
and $275,000 for 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

11   Commitments

The Company is committed under operating leases for office space
through December 1999 and for computer equipment through
December 1996.  Rent expense for office and warehouse space for
the Company's regional and international offices for 1995, 1994,
and 1993 was $1,192,000, $1,721,000, and $2,195,000,
respectively.  Lease expense for computer equipment was $68,000,
$328,000, and $323,000, in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
Aggregate minimum future payments (in thousands) under these
noncancelable leases are as follows:
                                         
               Years                     
             ----------------
                                         
               1996              $  1,539
               1997                 1,502
               1998                 1,279
               1999                   531
               2000                   180

12   Real Estate Lease Revenue

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its Kansas City
headquarters complex under noncancelable operating leases.
Rental income from January 1, 1995  to  December 30, 1995, was
$2,577,000.  Future minimum lease revenues (in thousands) under
these noncancelable operating leases expiring through 2000 are
as follows:

               Years                     
             ----------------
                                         
               1996              $  2,040
               1997                 1,695
               1998                 1,285
               1999                 1,018
               2000                   694

13   Stockholders' Equity

At December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, the Company had
1,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock,
$.01 par value.

14   Quarterly Results (unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial data for 1995 and 1994 is set forth
below:





                                                           


                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                        -------------------------------


The Board of Directors
Cerner Corporation:

Under date of February 10, 1996, we reported on the consolidated
balance sheets of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of December
30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, and the related consolidated
statments of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended Decmeber 30, 1995.  These
consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are included
in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1995.  In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the related financial statement
schedule as listed in Item 14(a)(2).  This financial statement schedule
is the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.


                                       KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
February 10, 1996



