10-K


c83827e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

( X )

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004

OR

(   )

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from ___________________ to___________________

Commission File Number 0-15386

CERNER CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

43-1196944

(State or other jurisdiction

(I.R.S. Employer

of incorporation or organization)

Identification Number)

2800 Rockcreek Parkway

North Kansas City, Missouri 64117

(816) 221-1024

(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code;

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes (X)
         No (  )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act rule 12b-2).

Yes (X)
         No (  )

The aggregate value of the registrant’s voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 28, 2003 was $643,591,876.

At February 27, 2004, there were 35,689,164 shares of Common Stock
outstanding, of which 7,563,341 shares were owned by affiliates. The aggregate
market value of the outstanding Common Stock of the Registrant held by
non-affiliates, based on the closing sale price of such stock on February 27,
2004, was $1,258,911,855.

Documents incorporated by reference: portions of the Registrant’s Proxy
Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference in Part III hereof.



Part I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Cerner Corporation (“Cerner” or the “Company”) is a Delaware business
incorporated in 1980. The Company’s corporate headquarters are located at 2800
Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Its telephone number is
(816) 221-1024. The Company’s Web site address is www.cerner.com. The Company
makes available free of charge, on or through its Web site, its annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

Cerner is taking the paper chart out of healthcare, eliminating error, variance
and unnecessary waste in the care process. With more than 1,500 clients
worldwide, Cerner is the leading supplier of healthcare information technology.

Cerner

®

solutions give end users secure access to clinical, administrative and
financial data in real time. Consumers retrieve appropriate care information
and educational resources via the Internet.

Cerner implements these solutions as stand-alone, combined or enterprise-wide
systems.

Cerner

solutions can be managed by its clients or via an application
outsourcing/hosting model. Cerner provides hosted solutions from its data
center in Lee’s Summit, Missouri.

Cerner

solutions are
designed and developed using the

Cerner Millennium

®

architecture. The

Cerner Millennium

architecture is a state-of-the-art
technology infrastructure that combines clinical, financial and management
information solutions. It provides access to an individual’s electronic medical
record at the point of care and organizes information for the specific needs of
the physician, nurse, laboratory technician, pharmacist or other care provider,
as well as for front and back office professionals.

Healthcare organizations utilize data gathered and stored within the

Cerner
Millennium

architecture to improve the safety, efficiency and productivity of
the entire enterprise. The

Cerner Millennium

architecture also delivers medical
knowledge and content to the point of care to help clinicians predict outcomes
of treatment plans and deliver the most effective care.

The Healthcare Industry

2003 was a landmark year for the healthcare industry, as Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) rules were implemented, and
other legislation came to bear on this dynamic and fragmented market. The
healthcare industry is getting a lot of attention, and many leaders, both
governmental and industry, are calling for reform. Key issues include the use
of electronic medical records to ensure patient safety and to eliminate manual,
paper-based medical records systems.

Perhaps the most notable event of last year was the Medicare Prescription Drug
and Modernization Act, which was signed in November 2003. The Act will provide
prescription drug coverage to 40 million senior Americans, as well as $600
million for technology integration of e-prescribing. Additionally, the Medicare
Reform bill includes important provisions related to quality oversight,
aligning pay with performance and improving care for the chronically ill.

In 2003, the financial condition of healthcare providers appeared to stabilize,
with the primary exception being hospitals with a higher mix of Medicaid
revenues. Recent Standard & Poor’s data indicates that higher reimbursement,
coupled with sustained demand for services, should improve the credit quality
of hospitals. In addition, new debt issuance was up eight percent in 2002,
which is likely indicative of continued access to capital. Hospital capital
spending is expected to rise 14 percent annually over the next five years,
according to a survey of chief financial officers conducted by the Healthcare
Financial



Management Association. This number reflects significant growth following one
percent annual increases from 1997 to 2001. Technology tops the list of
anticipated capital projects, with investments expected in computerized
physician order entry systems and digital radiology, as well as for purchases
of major information technology systems.

As in previous years, the growing shortage of personnel continues to be another
threat to the healthcare system. According to United American Nurses, about 67
percent of hospital nurses said that the time available for patient care has
decreased, and 80 percent said their hospitals are seriously short of nurses.
These shortages impact all areas of the hospital, but are prevalent in nursing,
radiology and pharmacy.

Many hospitals are turning to information technology (“IT”) solutions to
recruit and retain clinicians, as technology can significantly reduce the
amount of paperwork clinicians perform. The American Hospital Association and
PricewaterhouseCoopers estimate clinicians spend 30 to 60 minutes completing
paperwork for each hour of patient care. This overhead dramatically reduces not
only the time a clinician can spend with a given patient, but also the number
of patients a clinician can see in a given day. In an era of serious staff
shortages, anything that takes away from caregiver/patient interaction is a
serious impediment to the quality of care and to the healthcare system’s very
mission.

Healthcare Spending Rises; High-Quality Healthcare Not Yet a Universal Reality

According to projections of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
healthcare spending grew 7.8 percent ($1.7 trillion) in 2003, down from a
growth rate of 9.3 percent in 2002. This will be the first slowdown in
healthcare spending growth in six years. While the growth is slowing,
healthcare spending is expected to make up more than 15 percent of the United
States Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2003, up from 14.9 percent in 2002 and
13.3 percent in 2001. These figures indicate that healthcare spending continues
to outpace growth in the rest of the economy.

Unfortunately, spending does not equate with quality, and despite the progress
made in medicine, high-quality healthcare is not yet a universal reality in the
United States. This is the finding of a December 2003 report by the Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality. As the first national comprehensive effort to
measure healthcare quality in the United States, the study indicates that
opportunities for preventive care are frequently missed.

Other studies that verify these findings include one by RAND Health, an
independent and leading research organization, which found that about 45
percent of the respondents did not receive recommended care. The National
Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) also reported in September 2003 that
57,000 insured persons die due to a quality gap, deaths that are the result of
factors such as poor use of technology. The NCQA also estimates that nearly 41
million sick days and more than $11 billion in lost productivity could be
avoided annually if well known “best practices” were more widely adopted.

To address these and other related issues, several organizations have been
developing recommendations on the use of technology in healthcare. In a report
issued by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in July 2003, several core
capabilities for an Electronic Health Record System were identified, including
the adoption of computer-based health records. The IOM cited the importance of
these electronic records to greater safety, quality and efficiency in
healthcare delivery. Additionally, Health Level Seven (HL7), one of the
world’s leading developers of healthcare standards, is working to develop a
common industry standard for electronic medical records that will guide the
efforts of software developers.

Cerner is committed to helping these organizations better understand the role
of technology in healthcare. The Company is co-sponsoring another study by RAND
Health that began in March 2003. This unprecedented study will prove the value
of healthcare technology. Neal Patterson, chairman and chief executive officer
of Cerner, sits on the RAND Health Board of Advisors, and Nancy-Ann DeParle,
former administrator of the federal Healthcare Financing Administration (HCFA)
and Cerner board member, is on the steering committee. The results of this
study are scheduled to be released in March 2005.



Opportunity for Growth Exists in Healthcare Information Technology

While the healthcare market is the second fastest-growing market for IT
(government is first), it lags in its adoption of technology. For example, it
has historically allocated a smaller percentage of revenue to IT, spending an
estimated 2.5 percent of revenue compared to 3.9 percent for all other
industries. Fortunately, the healthcare market is becoming increasingly
receptive to the use and anticipated benefits of technology. Gartner Group, a
leading research company, forecasts the United States healthcare IT market will
grow from $35.7 billion in 2002 to $47.9 billion in 2006. Software and services
are expected to represent the largest portion of this increase.

Transforming healthcare delivery requires a proactive approach – one that
enables physicians to manage health through better use and integration of data.
By adopting information technology and evidence-based practices, healthcare
organizations can drive out medical errors, eliminate waste and reduce the
inconsistency of care that undermines the overall quality of the health system.

2004 will be an important one for healthcare, as government and industry
leaders debate patient safety and quality – all of which lead to the
exploration of the role of IT. Cerner has proactively addressed the changing
and increasing needs of the healthcare industry as discussed above by
developing the

Cerner Millennium

architecture

.

See “Cerner’s Technology—

Cerner
Millennium

Architecture” for a more in-depth explanation of this unparalleled
architecture.

The Cerner Vision

Cerner

solutions and the Company’s business approach are organized around a
central vision of how healthcare can and should operate. This vision is founded
on a community health model which encompasses four steps:

•

Automate the Core Processes of Healthcare

•

Connect the Person

•

Structure the Knowledge

•

Close the Loop

Automate the Core Processes

Cerner is dedicated to the elimination of the paper medical record and to the
reduction of costs in the healthcare industry.

As long as medical information is isolated in a paper record, the inadequacies
of today’s healthcare delivery system will remain. Nurses and pharmacists will
be forced to interpret illegible and incomplete orders. Physicians will not
benefit from the real-time, contextual reference information available in
automated solutions. And clinicians throughout a healthcare organization will
continue to search for the single copy of the paper-based record. When it is
not readily available, they will be forced to make critical care decisions
without adequate or complete information.

The elimination of the paper record will lead to improved quality and safety of
healthcare. It will increase productivity and generate better documentation
from which clinical outcomes, financial performance and resource utilization
can be benchmarked and analyzed.

With an electronic medical record, clinicians view demographic information,
medical history, lab results, vital signs and treatment plans, along with notes
from healthcare team members. Guidelines and pathways relevant to the person’s
medical condition help the physician make the best possible decisions in
diagnosing and treating the patient. This comprehensive view of the person’s
health ensures safer and higher-quality care.

Online documentation and physician order entry reduce errors and eliminate
duplication of services—and the costs associated with both. Documentation
required to write claims and seek reimbursement for services is maintained
efficiently, thus reducing claim denials and shortening the time that passes
between claims submission and payment.



Once all the steps of healthcare are captured electronically, the enhanced
documentation will create the foundation for data collection that will be the
backbone of structuring the knowledge of healthcare.

In addition to automating workflow, technology is essential in order to
eliminate error, variance, waste, delay and friction – all of which contribute
to declines in healthcare quality and increases in medical error. Healthcare
IT can eliminate these factors, leading to an overall cost reduction in
healthcare.

Connect the Person

Cerner is dedicated to helping its clients build a personal health system, a
new medium between the person and the physician, which empowers the individual
and delivers higher-quality healthcare

.

The healthcare system is undergoing fundamental change as the person moves to
the center of healthcare delivery. Increasing access to expert knowledge over
the Internet and a cultural shift toward self-directed care are moving the
center of power and control away from the healthcare provider and toward the
healthcare consumer.

With the personal health record, individuals can store and access their medical
information securely from anywhere they have Internet access. When combined
with personalized health content, consumers gain a better sense of the care
they are receiving and the options available to them. They communicate better
with providers and more proactively manage their healthcare.

Structure the Knowledge

Cerner is dedicated to building information systems that treat every clinical
decision as a learning event. Cerner solutions enable the industry to
structure, store and study the application and outcomes of medical practice.

Medicine must have a structure that allows physicians to record treatment and
outcomes in such a way that it can be compared and contrasted with other
methods. A common nomenclature that can exactly capture the meaning of input
from physicians and clinicians is a necessary first step.

Cerner

solutions store healthcare data and provide a framework for
comparability. This enables physicians to make sense of and glean value from
the information that is gathered through automated processes and connected
persons. Without a knowledge framework, data collected will provide no real
benefit. By building this structure, Cerner opens the door for every encounter
with a patient and every piece of new knowledge to be catalogued, measured and
analyzed. This knowledge framework will deliver better care and an improved
understanding of medicine.

Close the Loop

Cerner is dedicated to building information systems that deliver evidence-based
medicine, dramatically reducing the average time from the discovery of an
improved method to the change in medical practice.

Advances in technology offer great opportunities in healthcare and must be used
to deliver better care faster. The information learned must be applied. Today,
patients may wait as long as 10 years before new medical knowledge reaches
widespread use. With systems designed to embed evidence-based medicine inside
the clinician’s workflow—using pathways, guidelines and
alerts—physicians know
that every medical decision is based on the best and most recent knowledge
available. The results will be better outcomes and reduced variance.

The Cerner Strategy

Key elements of the Company’s business strategy include:

Penetrate the integrated healthcare provider market.

Large healthcare systems
represent a significant component of the healthcare information technology
market. These organizations focus on improving safety and reducing costs
through operating efficiencies. Cerner’s enterprise-wide, person-centric
clinical and management solutions provide the technology to manage healthcare
across an organization, significantly reduce costs, improve the efficiency of
delivery and enhance the quality of care.



Increase market share in individual domains and further penetrate the existing
client base.

Cerner expects continued growth in clinical domain systems for
specific markets such as nursing, physician office, laboratory, pharmacy,
radiology, surgery, emergency medicine and cardiology, as institutions look to
restructure and reengineer these high-cost centers.

Cerner is also expanding its presence into the home healthcare market. In
August 2003, the Company acquired BeyondNow Technologies, a leader in the home
care information technology market. Based in Overland Park, Kansas, BeyondNow
has been a leader in the home care industry by developing technologies that
reduce administrative paperwork, provide clinicians with remote access to
charts, accelerate third-party reimbursement and share information between the
home care setting and hospitals. This acquisition establishes Cerner’s presence
in a market that is expected to increase dramatically with the advancing age of
the baby boomer generation. It also reflects the Company’s goal to connect the
person in the Cerner community health model. In December 2003, the

HomeWorks

®

/

Road
Notes

®

solution received a “Best in KLAS” ranking in the Home
Health category.

Cerner’s acquisition of BeyondNow Technologies comes at a key time for the home
care segment. Information sharing and the use of technology directly impact the
quality of care provided by home care agencies - quality now measured by the
Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services. The two organizations recently launched the Home Health Quality
Initiative, aimed at providing quality standards and measures to consumers
researching home healthcare agencies.

Remain committed to a common architecture.

Because Cerner believes that the
constituents in health management need to work together to benefit defined
populations in a community, the Company has made a commitment to a single,
unified architecture as the platform for its health information and management
systems. This platform enables the

Cerner Millennium

architecture to be
scaleable on a linear basis, using either

Cerner

compatible modules for
process-oriented applications or competitive systems interfaced using open
system protocols.

In 2003, Cerner extended its commitment to a unified architecture with the
introduction of its

Cerner Millennium

Web experience solution. Please see
“

Cerner Millennium

Delivers a New Client Experience” in the “

Cerner

Technology”
section.

Expand solutions and services.

Building upon the

Cerner Millennium

architecture, Cerner intends to continue expanding the range of solutions and
services offered to providers. These new solutions and services will complement
existing solutions, address clients’ emerging IT needs and employ technological
advances.

Cerner believes that major opportunities exist as providers reach into new
markets and offer more alternative services to remain competitive. The Company
believes these organizations will find value in having personal health records
and trusted medical information accessible to the individual in the home.
Cerner recognizes the potential value of the aggregate database being developed
by its broad client base. This database is a powerful means of enabling
comparative or normative procedure evaluations. The substantial project
management, process redesign, technology integration and training involved in
healthcare systems taking advantage of the opportunities provided by clinical
and management information technology represent a significant market for the
Company’s consulting services.

Additionally, in 2003 the Company made specific progress in expanding its

Cerner Millennium

solutions to create one of the broadest range of solution
offerings in the industry.

Key new solutions that were introduced in 2003 include the

Powerchart Oncology

™

and

Workforce Management

solutions

.

Other significant progress is the success
in two of Cerner’s relatively new offerings, Patient Accounting and Picture
Archiving Communications System (PACS).

Cerner converted 11 PACS clients in 2003 and has another 15 signed clients
scheduled for conversion or module roll-out in 2004, bringing its total
converted client facilities to more than 40 in North America and



120 facilities globally. These clients benefit from the productivity and safety
delivered by an integrated solution.

Continue pursuit of excellence in implementations.

Since the introduction of
the

Cerner Millennium

architecture – a revolutionary concept and application
offering that ventured into uncharted territories – Cerner has dramatically
improved the implementation process. With the benefit of more than 2,600
converted solutions at the end of 2003 and more than 1,600 consulting
associates, Cerner has steadily decreased implementation timelines while
increasing the number of solutions converted within those timelines.

Contributing to this record number of implementations is the client response to

Cerner’s Accelerated Solutions Center

services (

ASC

) – a prescribed practices
implementation model developed from more than 25 years of success in developing
and implementing healthcare IT solutions. Comprised of a dedicated group of
information technology consultants that specialize in the implementation of

Cerner Millennium

solutions, Center takes much of the implementation burden of
database design and build activities off its clients’ staff. Through use of
the

ASC

, clients enjoy reduced time, cost and complexity of implementation,
predictable, fixed-fee solutions and reduced burden on resources.

Offer solutions on a hosted basis.

To assist Cerner’s clients with
implementation and maintenance of its solutions, Cerner offers application
outsourcing through its Remote Hosted Option (RHO). Representing the fastest
growing service within the Company, this option delivers information technology
services that include software, computer hardware, implementation, technical
support, wide-area network services and automatic software upgrades.

Traditionally, many healthcare organizations were unable to access the most
advanced IT systems due to the complexity and cost involved in the management
and support of these systems. Cerner’s RHO addresses many of these challenges,
providing a solution for healthcare IT that enables any size healthcare
organization to benefit from Cerner’s industry-leading information management
software.

While this business model started with a focus on community hospitals, it has
expanded to meet the needs of clients of all sizes. Cerner now has more than
100 clients relying on its data center for delivery of a variety of technology
services, generating a highly visible and increasingly profitable revenue
stream.

Build a reputation as a partner characterized by trust and integrity.

In an era
in which corporate financial scandals seem almost a constant in the headlines,
Cerner pledges to promote trust and integrity in every client relationship it
establishes. Cerner’s three original founders – still in leadership positions
today – along with its long history of solid financial performance are
testaments to the Company’s commitment.

Continue to expand global presence

. Cerner has an immense opportunity to
revolutionize the practice and delivery of healthcare throughout the world
through its leadership in clinical systems and patient safety. To that end,
Cerner continues to make significant investments in the infrastructure
development to support these efforts.

In October 2003, the
Company reported that Atos Origin (formerly SchlumbergerSema), with Cerner as its
key partner, was awarded the Electronic Booking Service contract, which was the
first contract awarded in the very large healthcare information technology
procurement conducted by the National Health Service (NHS) in the United
Kingdom. This contract is very strategic because the Electronic Booking
Service will link healthcare providers with more than 50 million citizens in
England.

Cerner also expanded its presence in the United Kingdom when Homerton
University Hospital NHS Trust and Newham Healthcare NHS Trust in London joined
forces to contract for the

Cerner Millennium

electronic patient record (EPR)
solution. Cerner was chosen for the multi-million dollar procurement after a
rigorous selection process. Implementation began in August 2003, and the Trusts
are scheduled to have a fully operational EPR system within two years that will
improve patient safety, clinician workflow and operational efficiency. In
addition, the local Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) will be incorporated into the
system, resulting in the connection of all parts of the health community.



In Germany, Cerner completed its integration of Image Devices with Cerner
Deutschland. The acquisition, which occurred in 2002, substantially increased
the Company’s European presence. Founded in 1990, Image Devices has supplied
the image archive component for the

Cerner
ProVision

™

PACS solution since 1999.

The Company also continues to increase its leadership in other key global
markets. In August, Cerner was selected by Montreal-based McGill University
Health Centre to automate all aspects of its clinical and anatomic
laboratories.

Additionally, London Health Sciences Centre in London, Ontario, continues to
implement its

Cerner Millennium

architecture city-wide to support their “one
person/one health record” mission. In 2003, the Company also negotiated a new
five year agreement with London Health Sciences Centre to complete the rollout
of the

Cerner Millennium

electronic health record platform across all
facilities and to position them to expand into the surrounding region.

In addition to its strong European and North American presence, Cerner believes
there are meaningful opportunities in other global locations, including the Far
East and South America.

Cerner Technology

—

Cerner Millennium

Architecture

The cornerstone of Cerner’s technology strategy is the

Cerner Millennium

architecture

,

the single architecture around which each of Cerner’s solutions
is developed. This person-centric, single data model is open and highly
scalable. Thus, it allows Cerner to meet the clinical, financial, management
and business information requirements of a healthcare delivery system across
the continuum of care. The

Cerner Millennium

architecture

,

the core of which
was developed between 1994 and 1999, is Cerner’s computing platform. The

Cerner
Millennium

architecture uses flexible n-tiered client/server technology to
optimize distributed computing performance and scalability across multiple
client and server platforms. The

Cerner Millennium

architecture and solutions
were designed and developed to accommodate healthcare specific requirements for
mission-critical computing and secure access from all settings along the care
delivery continuum. The breadth of focus and functionality of the

Cerner
Millennium

architecture and solutions are well suited for large-scale and
enterprise application technologies for healthcare organizations.

The value of the

Cerner Millennium

architecture to a client organization is the
enterprise-wide use of a single system based on a fully unified common
architecture and database. With its single data model and comprehensive
electronic medical record, the

Cerner Millennium

architecture provides secure,
real-time access to all information across multiple solutions, domains,
organizations and physical locations, including physician, hospital, nursing,
laboratory, pharmacy and consumers, to all authorized providers requiring such
access. Given its unified and open design, the

Cerner Millennium

architecture
can also provide a centralized repository of clinical and financial
transactions to help standardize access and messaging of disparate applications
across a health system.

The alternative to a single architectural approach is to use disparate systems
based on differing architectures and data structures. These disparate systems
must be interfaced together and rely on these interfaces to transmit, modify
and arrange data exchanged between them, which limits the data’s usefulness
across multiple systems and inhibits real-time access. In addition, many of
these systems lack functional scalability and cannot operate across multiple
provider settings or locations within a healthcare organization, constraining
organizations’ potential to realize full benefits.

Several overarching capabilities are embedded into the

Cerner Millennium

architecture. First is the person-centric transactions and secure messaging,
which consider the breadth of requirements not only of a patient, but also of
healthy consumers. Second is healthcare community dynamics, which take into
account the flexibility required by the constantly changing relationships
between healthcare organizations, physicians and consumers, and the need to
maintain complex security and end-user preferences based on the context and
business attributes of the transaction in a community setting. Third is the
ability to proactively deliver patient, provider- and condition-specific
knowledge and content in the form of alerts, best practices and
pathways—content in context—at the point of decision, empowering physicians
with the most complete, most timely information available when making decisions
about care delivery.



Cerner Millennium

Delivers a New Client Experience

In 2003, Cerner introduced
its new

Cerner Millennium

Web experience. This solution combines the technology benefits of a browser-agnostic platform
with an optimized human interface that aligns personalization, digitized
knowledge and clinician work practices. Unlike competitive offerings, this new
solution is an extension of the Company’s already proven architecture, offering seamless
coexistence with Windows and all other browser-based technologies. The ability
to leverage the

Cerner Millennium

architecture has put the Company in the
unique position to focus its efforts on complex collaboration, as this will
represent the next generation of clinician productivity.

The new Web experience is designed with a focus on individuals’ roles and the
venues in which they practice. Using the new human interface, individuals can
easily personalize their workspaces, creating and saving the unique views that
best support their unique responsibilities to ensure the immediate visibility
of relevant information. The intuitive interface and associated usability
enhancements help health professionals incorporate information technology into
their daily work practices and enable them to quickly and easily complete
routine tasks. Clinicians also enjoy a proactive knowledge push that occurs
before they select an order or medication, ensuring they can take advantage of
the best medical science without disruption.

The Electronic Booking Service for the NHS project in England has proven the
capacity of the

Cerner Millennium

Web experience to handle the scheduling for
more than 50 million citizens in England. Cerner internally processed more than
2.9 million transactions in one hour against a database with 2.7 billion rows
of data, indicating that its Web architecture can deliver consistent
performance under extreme workloads.

Solutions

The

Cerner Millennium

architecture is the only healthcare information system on
the market today capable of storing, retrieving and disseminating clinical and
financial information across an entire health system. The

Cerner Millennium

architecture solutions are dedicated to meeting the automation needs of every
segment of the care continuum.

Cerner solutions can be acquired individually or as a fully unified health
information system. Cerner also markets more than 200 solutions options that
complement Cerner’s major information systems. In addition, Cerner offers
comprehensive consulting services—including learning services, readiness
assessments, planning and change management and process redesign—and also sells
third-party computers and related hardware to its software licensees.

Enterprise Repositories

The unique architecture of the

Cerner Millennium

architecture sets Cerner apart
from the competition. A key part of the

Cerner Millennium

architecture is the
data repositories—the underlying foundation for Cerner
solutions—which allow
healthcare organizations to manage and make use of the data collected along the
healthcare continuum.

The

Open Clinical
Foundation

®

repository manages clinical information with an
open, standard medical terminology, providing the foundation for the electronic
medical record.

The

Open Image
Foundation

™

repository provides the clinical and document
imaging foundation for the electronic medical record.

Cerner’s solution categories include:

•

Enterprise-wide Systems, which automate processes throughout the
health system enterprise, including:

•

Access Management.

•

Care Management.



•

Financial and Operational Management Systems, which automate business operations.

Enterprise-Wide Solutions

Access Management

The

CapStone

®

Enterprise Access Management System

is the industry’s most
comprehensive suite of solutions designed to automate, integrate and streamline
patient access information between and among all key points in the delivery
system. Key components of this solution create the enterprise master person
index (EMPI) and automate the identification, eligibility, registration and
scheduling processes across hospitals, clinics, physician practices and other
care delivery organizations.

Care Management

PowerChart

®

Electronic Medical Record System

is the enterprise clinician’s
desktop solution for viewing, ordering, documenting and managing care delivery,
including the

PowerOrders®

offering for physician ordering.

Financial and Operational

Cerner is leveraging its experience to bridge the gap between clinical settings
and the business office, revolutionizing the revenue cycle within healthcare
systems.

The

ProFit

®

Enterprise Billing and Accounts Receivable System

is Cerner’s
patient accounting and financial management solution. The

ProFit

system brings
together clinical and financial data to maximize reimbursement, decrease
denials and gain dramatic operational efficiencies.

Cerner
ProVision

™

Document Image Management System

is the only integrated
solution that manages document images across the entire healthcare
organization, including both clinical and non-clinical departments.

The

ProFile

®

Health Information Management System

helps meet the operations
management needs of the health information management (medical records)
department with functionality that simultaneously manages paper,
document images and computerized records within a single application.

The

Clinically Driven
Workforce Management

™

solutions align the appropriate
resources based on predicted and actual demand. With this comprehensive suite
of offerings, organizations are empowered to optimize existing resources while
increasing patient throughput and managing employee satisfaction.

The

ProCure

™

Enterprise Supply Chain Management

solutions focus on eliminating
variation and clinical staff burden. By connecting materials management
processes with key clinical processes, the supply chain is established as a
byproduct of care delivery.



Medical Transcription Management Cerner Millennium

integration offers
unprecedented levels of accuracy and efficiency of transcribed documents by
leveraging clinical data to auto-create report content.

Clinical Systems

Points of Care

The

Critical Care
INet

®

Intensive Care Management System

is designed to
automate the entire care process in critical care settings. It supports
complete nursing documentation with automated capture of bedside monitor and
device data. Physician workflow is automated with both documentation and flow
sheet embedded Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE). Both nursing and
physician workflows are enhanced with closed loop meds process and remote
patient monitoring capabilities. Embedded knowledge augments patient safety
with critical care specific nursing and physician documentation templates and
alerts. Outcome analysis (with world-renowned solutions like the
APACHE

®

) is
also embedded in the critical care workflow.

The

CareNet

®

Acute Care Management System

is designed to automate and
streamline the work and care delivery processes for the entire acute care team.
This solution provides improved communication and the coordination of care for
nursing and the entire multi-disciplinary acute care team. The

CareNet

system
promotes patient safety through strong clinical decision support,
evidence-based nursing and knowledge based best practices and alerts and
reminders, thereby reducing the variance and variability in the care process.
The

CareNet

system enables care sets, plans of care, pathways and protocols,
allowing the care team to collect, refine, organize and evaluate detailed
clinical and management data, as well as measure outcomes and goals.

The

CVNet

®

Cardiology Information System

automates the processes within the
cardiology department, supporting the scheduling, ordering, documentation and
data capture required by professionals in the cardiology domain.

The

PowerChart Oncology Information System

automates the clinical
decision-making and complex communication needs of the medical oncology care
team. This oncology solution provides the ability to share crucial patient
information across both ambulatory and acute care for management of complex,
multi-encounter chemotherapy protocols, improving communication and the
real-time flow of patient information across the continuum of care.

The

SurgiNet

®

Surgery and Anesthesia Information System

is designed to address
the needs of the perioperative service, including automating the functions of
professional staff and material resource scheduling, supply chain management,
perioperative documentation, patient tracking, anesthesia documentation,
physiological monitoring at the bedside or in the operating room suite. It
provides easy access to clinical and historical patient data for past surgical
events to support planning for anesthesia care and surgical case preparation by
clinicians. The

SurgiNet

system provides financial and operational analysis and
reporting tools to support continuous improvement in the utilization of and
quality of care delivered by the perioperative service.

The

Cerner Women’s Health Information System

automates the care processes in
women’s centers, ob/gyn offices, labor & delivery units and in newborn care
areas in the hospital. This solution is designed to support the clinical
workflow, information needs and specific challenges faced in women’s
healthcare.

The

FirstNet

®

Emergency Department Information System

provides a comprehensive
solution to the challenges emergency departments face to streamline process
flows, comply with HIPAA and Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
regulations, comply with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
requirements and ensure appropriate reimbursement. The

FirstNet

system is an
emergency department clinician and management tool for quick and effective
patient tracking, ordering, results and medical record review, online clinical
documentation, prescription writing, patient education and evidenced-based
coding.

The

PowerChart Office

®

Management System

supports the broad range of clinical
and business activities that occur within a physician office, clinic or large
physician organization. This system ties the physician



office together with other medical entities and automates key care team
activities in both primary and specialty care settings.

Clinical Centers

The

PathNet

®

Laboratory Information System

(LIS) addresses the clinical,
financial and managerial needs of a comprehensive laboratory setting with
unified solutions for: general laboratory, microbiology, blood bank
transfusion, blood bank donor, anatomic pathology, human leukocyte antigen
(HLA) and outreach services. Innovative laboratory solutions such as patented
Synoptic Reporting for AP, Clinical Validation and the PathNet Helix

™

offering
for Molecular Diagnostic/Genomics are just several examples of how PathNet
continues to set the bar in the LIS market. The

PathNet

system automates
laboratory processes while capturing crucial data for operational success,
ensuring the production of accurate and timely reports and the maintenance of
accessible laboratory records.

The

RadNet

®

Radiology Information System

addresses the operational and
management requirements of radiology departments or services. It allows a
department to replace its manual, paper-based system of record keeping with an
efficient computer-based system.

Cerner ProVision

™

PACS

(picture archival and communications system) is fully
unified with Cerner’s radiology information system to manage storage, viewing,
reporting and distribution of images. Using Cerner’s end-to-end, fully unified
radiology information and image management systems, radiologists can improve
operational efficiencies and reduce medical error.

The

PharmNet

®

Pharmacy Information System

is a powerful solution for
transforming pharmacy and medication administration processes. The

PharmNet

system facilitates improved patient safety and operational activities across
the continuum of care. The

PharmNet

system puts patient safety first and
foremost in support of clinical pharmacy practice. It is a complete solution
offering clinical decision support, formulary management and operational
support, facilitating optimal utilization of pharmacy resources.

Decision Support and Knowledge

The

Discern Expert

®

solution is an event-driven, rules-based decision support
software application that allows users to define clinical and management rules
that are applied to event data captured or generated by other applications. It
supports both synchronous (real-time, interactive) processing and asynchronous
(noninteractive) processing of events.

The

Discern Explorer

®

solution is a decision support software application
unified with other

Cerner Millennium

clinical and management information
systems that allows users to execute predetermined or ad hoc queries and
reports regarding process-related data that is generated by the other
applications.

Executable Knowledge

®

solutions help clinicians assess and treat illnesses and
improve outcomes based on the most current medical knowledge. Knowledge is
customized to the individual and embedded within the

Cerner Millennium

architecture via order sets, plans of care, alerts and notifications including
Adverse Drug Event (ADE) Prevention alerts and clinical documentation. Reports
measuring compliance against key clinical standards help organizations
benchmark and enhance care quality.

Medisource

™

solutions provide caregivers and consumers alike with access to
drug information from

Cerner Multum

and the ability to perform drug interaction
checking to prevent adverse events. Patient safety is enhanced through dose
range checking capabilities that determine the appropriate medication dose
based on the age, weight and physiology of an individual.

APACHE

®

clinical decision support and outcomes management systems manage the
clinical and financial outcomes of high-risk patients in critical and acute
care.

The

PowerInsight

®

solution is a comprehensive healthcare intelligence and data
warehouse for healthcare. It enables clinical leadership and healthcare
executives to collect, measure, analyze and benchmark data, thereby deriving
insights to enable positive changes in clinical processes and operational
performance.



The

Health Facts

™

repository is Cerner’s comparative data warehouse for
benchmarking information and services for subscribers to support their own
improvement processes.

The

HealthSentry

™

bio-surveillance network collects critical biological
information about potential disease outbreaks and analyzes data for specific
patterns or trends.

Consumer

Cerner’s

IQHealth

™

systems enable healthcare organizations to create an
Internet-based healthcare community that connects individuals to their
healthcare providers.

IQHealth

™

systems empower consumers and patients to
record, track and store health information to better manage their own health
and that of their loved ones. With

IQHealth

™

systems, sponsoring organizations
can create and brand a “health exchange” to improve their presence in the
community, better support individuals in their self-care actions and enhance
existing centers of excellence.

IQHealth

systems include

Web Portal Services, Health Content, Survey and
Assessment Tools, Personal Health Record, Physician and Consumer Messaging

and

Disease-Specific Modules

.

Packaged Solutions

Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE)

Cerner offers a total CPOE solution ranging from basic automation to complete
medication integration.

CPOE enables standardized electronic physician ordering of tests, medications
and other patient services. Orders are checked using decision support tools to
determine if they are in line with standards and appropriate for the person’s
individual situation. Physicians are alerted to potential problems and actions
are documented in the patient’s electronic medical record.

Cerner’s CPOE solution includes a physician-centric ordering application
(

PowerOrders

), an important decision-support engine with rules and alerts
(

Discern Expert

and

MediSource

), and clinical documentation (Care
Documentation, eMAR,

PowerPOC

™

and more), all integrated within a robust
clinical data repository (

PowerChart

).

When combined with the

PharmNet

and

CareNet

systems, Cerner’s CPOE unifies
physicians, nurses and pharmacists to close the medication management loop,
connecting each member of the care team to the same updated information,
thereby reducing errors.

The solution also provides extra tools—evidence-based medical content and an
enhanced human interface—to support clinicians and improve care delivery.

PowerPOC

PowerPOC

is a solution set of supporting, multisystem offerings that automate
the documentation of medication administration and documentation of tasks
related to specific physician/nursing orders at the point of care (POC). This
solution set provides notification to the clinician when inconsistencies occur
that could represent potential medication administration errors.

This graduated solution set facilitates patient safety through barcode
verification of the “Five Rights” data review and collection, as well as
medical devices integration at the patient bedside. Solutions within this
family include:

PowerPOC CareAdmin

™

;

PowerPOC CareMobile

™

;

and PowerPOC
CareGuard

™

solutions.



HomeWorks

BeyondNow Technologies provides innovative information technology solutions to
the home care industry. The

HomeWorks

solution is a complete front and back
office home care information management system targeting business needs in a
quickly changing, fast paced environment. The

HomeWorks

solution manages data
from the point of the first referral call to the point of the last service
payment. The

RoadNotes

solution enables users to extend complete patient
information from point-of-care to the back office system. Caregivers have
access to complete patient charts, profiles and histories – for the information
needed to make informed decisions.

Segment Solutions

Cerner also offers solutions designed for specific segments in the healthcare
industry.

Cerner

solutions for the Integrated Delivery Network allow organizations to
serve multiple facilities, with differing needs, across various geographic
locations.

Community Hospital Solutions

automate clinical and business processes in the
community hospital. Community Hospital Solutions suites include administrative,
clinical, patient care, hospital integration and community.

Cerner

solutions for the Children’s Hospital setting specifically address those
issues unique to the pediatric hospital setting.

Cerner

solutions include
content and functionality specific to meeting the unique needs of children’s
hospitals, including dose range checking, weight-based dose calculation, growth
charts and immunization schedules.

Cerner

solutions for Academic Medical Centers allow medical centers to focus on
delivering high-quality care and carry out high-level teaching and research
functions

.

Cerner’s unified architecture also enhances research efforts by
allowing access to information via a centralized database.

The

Cerner Academic Education Solution

is the only clinical information system
adapted to support automated curricula and classroom instruction in nursing,
medical and allied health schools, preparing future healthcare professionals
for success in an IT driven environment.

Cerner offers solutions to meet the needs of federal healthcare organizations,
including the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
These organizations have specific requirements for IT solutions.

Technologies

The

MillenniumObjects

®

toolkit is a collection of reusable programming elements
from the revolutionary

Cerner Millennium

architecture. These segments of code,
or objects, allow third-party developers to create front-end applications that
draw upon the data model and proven functionality of the

Cerner Millennium

architecture.

The

Open Engine Application Gateway

™

System

facilitates the exchange of data
and assists in the management of interfaces between foreign systems in a
network environment. It serves as a solution kit to help write interface code.

The

Open Port Interface

™

System

represents Cerner’s standardized technology for
providing reliable foreign system, medical device and other standard interfaces
in a timely manner. Message translation and data mapping are done with
point-and-click solutions and a scripting environment. Communications protocols
are configured via table-driven parameters. These sophisticated methodologies
result in decreased implementation times and greater client satisfaction.



Software Development

Cerner commits significant resources to developing new health information
system solutions. As of January 3, 2004, approximately 1,837 associates were
engaged full-time in software solutions development activities. Total
expenditures for the development and enhancement of the Company’s software
solutions were approximately $179,999,000, $149,985,000 and $113,872,000 during
the 2003, 2002 and 2001 fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both
capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for
financial reporting purposes.

The Company expects to continue investment and development efforts for its
current and future solution offerings. As new clinical and management
information needs emerge, Cerner intends to enhance its current software
solutions lines with new versions released to clients on a periodic basis. In
addition, Cerner plans to: expand its current software solutions lines by
developing additional information systems for clinical, financial, operational
and/or consumer use; continue to support simultaneous use of Cerner’s solutions
across multiple facilities; and, continue to expand in the global marketplace.

The Company is committed to maintaining open attributes in its system
architecture through operability in a diverse set of technical and application
environments. The Company strives to design its systems to co-exist with
disparate applications developed and supported by other suppliers. This effort
is exemplified by Cerner’s

Open Engine

,

Open Port

and

MillenniumObjects

software solutions lines.

See “Cerner Technology—

Cerner Millennium Architecture

” for a discussion of the
development of Cerner’s latest generation of software solutions.

Sales and Marketing

The markets for Cerner’s information system solutions include integrated
delivery networks, physician groups and networks and their management service
organizations, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers,
free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks,
imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employer coalitions
and public health organizations. To date, a substantial portion of system
sales has been in clinical solutions in hospital-based provider organizations.

Cerner’s Millennium

architecture is highly scalable, with solutions being used
in hospitals ranging from under 50 beds to over 2,000 beds and managed care
settings with over 2,000,000 members. All

Cerner Millennium

solutions are
designed to operate on either computers manufactured by HP Computer Corporation
or IBM’s RISC System/6000 AIX (UNIX) platform, thereby allowing Cerner to be
price competitive across the full range of size and organizational structure of
healthcare providers. The sale of a health information system usually takes
approximately nine to eighteen months, from the time of initial contact to the
signing of a contract.

The Company’s executive marketing management is located in its North Kansas
City, Missouri, headquarters, while its client representatives are deployed
across the United States and globally. In addition to the United States, the
Company, through subsidiaries and joint ventures, has sales staff and/or
offices in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, Saudi
Arabia and the United Kingdom. Cerner’s consolidated revenues include foreign
sales of $54,191,000, $36,634,000 and $22,794,000 for the 2003, 2002 and 2001
fiscal years, respectively. The Company supports its sales force with
technical personnel who perform demonstrations of

Cerner’s

solutions and assist
clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. The
Company’s primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from
its existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and
tradeshows. Cerner attends a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsors
executive conferences, which feature industry experts who address the
information system needs of large healthcare organizations.

Client Services

All of Cerner’s clients enter into software maintenance agreements with Cerner
for support of their

Cerner

systems. In addition to immediate software support
in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients the use of new
releases of the

Cerner

solutions covered by maintenance agreements. Each
client



has 24-hour access to the client support staff located at Cerner’s world
headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri and the Company’s global support
organization in Brussels, Belgium. Most of Cerner’s clients also enter into
hardware maintenance agreements with Cerner. These arrangements normally
provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the majority of
cases, Cerner subcontracts hardware maintenance to the hardware manufacturer.
To assist Cerner’s clients with implementation and maintenance of its
solutions, Cerner offers application outsourcing through its Remote Hosted
Option. This option delivers information technology services that include
software, computer hardware, implementation, technical support, wide-area
network services and automatic software upgrades.

Backlog

At January 3, 2004, Cerner had a contract backlog of approximately $938,221,000
as compared to approximately $732,719,000 December 28, 2002. Such backlog
represents system sales from signed contracts, which had not yet been
recognized as revenue. The Company recognizes revenue on a percent of
completion basis, based on certain milestone conditions, for its software
solutions. At January 3, 2004, the Company had approximately $94,340,000 of
contracts receivable, which represents revenues recognized under the percentage
of completion method but not yet billable under the terms of the contract. At
January 3, 2004, Cerner had a software support and maintenance backlog of
approximately $312,887,000 as compared to approximately $269,153,000 at
December 28, 2002. Such backlog represents contracted software support and
hardware maintenance services for a period of twelve months. The Company
estimates that approximately 45% percent of the aggregate backlog at January 3,
2004 of $1,251,108,000 will be recognized as revenue during 2004.

Other Factors Affecting The Company’s Business

Information under the caption “Factors That May Affect Future Results of
Operations, Financial Condition of Business” included in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference. Such information includes a
discussion of various factors that could, among other things, affect the
Company’s business in the future, including; (a) variations in the Company’s
quarterly operating results; (b) volatility of the Company’s stock price; (c)
market risk of investments; (d) potential impairment of goodwill; (e) changes
in the healthcare industry; (f) significant competition; (g) the Company’s
proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be
infringed upon; (h) possible regulation of the Company’s software by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration or other government regulation; (i) the
possibility of product-related liabilities; (j) possible failures or defects in
the performance of the Company’s software; (k) risks associated with the
Company’s global operations; and (l) recruitment and retention of key
personnel.

Number of Employees (“Associates”)

As of January 3, 2004, the Company employed 5,077 associates.

Item 2. Properties

The Company’s world headquarters offices are located in a Company-owned office
park in North Kansas City, Missouri, containing approximately 739,000 square
feet of useable space (the “Campus”). As of January 3, 2004, the Company was
using approximately 736,000 square feet and substantially all of the remainder
was leased to tenants. In the first quarter of 2002, the Company began
construction of a new facility situated between the buildings located at 2800
and 2900 Rockcreek Parkway on the Campus. This facility was completed on
August 1, 2003 and is approximately 123,000 square feet in size. This new
facility, referred to as Cerner’s World Headquarters Building, houses offices,
a cafeteria and meeting space for the Company. In 2002, the Company also began
construction of a new office building located on the Campus. This facility was
completed in December of 2003 and houses office and meeting space for the
Company.

In the spring of 2001, the Company acquired property formally owned by Harrah’s
Operating Company, Inc., located along the north riverbank of the Missouri
River, approximately 2 miles from the Company’s Campus. This property consists
of an 80,000 square foot building and a 1,300-car parking garage. The building
has been renovated for use as a corporate training, meeting and event center
for the Company



and third parties. The Company has also made use of the parking garage to meet
overflow-parking demands on the Company’s Campus.

The Company also leases office space in: San Jose, California; Beverly Hills,
California; Denver, Colorado; Lake Mary, Florida; Waltham, Massachusetts; North
Kansas City, Missouri; Detroit, Michigan; Chesterfield, Missouri; Overland
Park, Kansas; Houston, Texas; Falls Church, Virginia; Chesapeake, Virginia; and,
Vienna, Virginia. The Company operates its primary solutions center (or data
center) in leased space in Lee’s Summit, Missouri. Globally, the Company also
leases office space in: Sydney, Australia; Brussels, Belgium; London, England;
and, Aachen and Idstein, Germany. Cerner Arabia, a joint venture in which the
Company maintains a 40% equity interest, leases space in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending March 29, 2003,
the Company received notice in April 2003 that three shareholder class action
lawsuits were filed against it and five of its officers in the United States
District Court for the Western District of Missouri. Subsequently, as
disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending June 28, 2003, five
additional shareholder class action lawsuits were filed against the Company.
All of these lawsuits were filed after a decline in the Company’s stock price
following the Company’s announcement on April 3, 2003 that the Company would
not meet revenue and earnings estimates for the first quarter of 2003.

On August 20, 2003, the Court ordered that all of the lawsuits (as specifically
identified in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ending March 29, 2003 and
June 28, 2003) be consolidated under Case No. 03-CV-00296-DW and appointed Phil
Crabtree as Lead Plaintiff. On December 1, 2003, the Lead Plaintiff filed a
Consolidated Class Action Complaint. In general, the consolidated complaint
alleges that, during a class period commencing as of July 17, 2002 and ending
April 2, 2003, the Company and individual named defendants misrepresented or
failed to disclose certain factors, which they allege impacted the Company’s
business and anticipated revenue and earnings, all allegedly in violation of
Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5
thereunder. The Company believes that all the claims asserted in the
Consolidated Amended Complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously
defend those claims.

On February 9, 2004, the Company and the individual defendants filed a Motion
to Dismiss the consolidated Complaint. The deadline for the Lead Plaintiff to
respond to the Motion is March 24, 2004. The Company does not know when the
District Court will decide the Motion or what the ruling may be. However, no
discovery in the litigation will commence until the District Court rules on the
Motion to Dismiss and, if the Motion is denied, the Company and the individual
defendants have filed their Answers to the Consolidated Amended Complaint.



Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004.

Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Company

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other
information regarding the Company’s executive officers as of March 3, 2004.
Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of
Directors.

Name

Age

Positions

Neal L. Patterson


Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer

Clifford W. Illig


Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors

Earl H. Devanny, III


President

Paul M. Black


Executive Vice President

Jack A. Newman, Jr.


Executive Vice President

Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D.


Executive Vice President

Marc G. Naughton


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Jeffrey A. Townsend


Senior Vice President

Randy D. Sims


Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary

Julie Wilson


Vice President and Chief People Officer

Richard J. Flanigan, Jr.


Senior Vice President and President of Cerner North Atlantic

Douglas M. Krebs


Senior Vice President Cerner Corporation and President of Cerner Global

John Peterzalek


Senior Vice President and President of Cerner South East

Stanley M. Sword


Senior Vice President and President of Cerner Great Lakes

Zane M. Burke


Vice President and President of Cerner West

Mike Valentine


Vice President and President of Cerner Mid America

Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson also
served as President of the Company from March of 1999 until August of 1999.

Clifford W. Illig has been a Director of the Company for more than five years.
He also served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company for more than five
years until October 1998 and as President of the Company for more than five
years until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board
of Directors in March of 1999.



Earl H. Devanny, III joined the Company in August of 1999 as President. Mr.
Devanny also served as interim President of Cerner Southeast from January 2003
through July 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Devanny served as
president of ADAC Healthcare Information Systems, Inc. Prior to joining ADAC,
Mr. Devanny served as a Vice President of the Company from 1994 to 1997. Prior
to that he spent seventeen years with IBM Corporation.

Paul M. Black joined the Company in March of 1994 as a Regional Vice President.
He was promoted in June 1998 to Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer
and to Executive Vice President in September of 2000. In January of 2003 Mr.
Black was named Executive Vice President of the U.S. Client Organization.
Prior to joining the Company, he spent twelve years with IBM Corporation.

Jack A. Newman, Jr. joined the Company in January of 1996 as Executive Vice
President. Prior to joining the Company, he was with KPMG LLP for twenty-two
years. Immediately prior to joining Cerner he was National Partner-in-Charge
of KPMG’s Healthcare Strategy Practice.

Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D. joined the Company in April of 1998 as General Manager
and Senior Vice President. In October 1998, Dr. Tobin was appointed Executive
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Dr. Tobin also served as interim
President of Cerner Great Lakes from January 2003 through August 2003. In
October of 2003, Dr. Tobin gave up his position as Chief Operating Officer and
accepted a position as Chief Executive Officer of Cerner Limited in which
position he served through February of 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Dr.
Tobin served as a senior consultant with McKinsey and Co., Inc. for more than
five years.

Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In
November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was
promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March
2002.

Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has
held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was
promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief
Engineering Officer in March 1998. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in
March 2001.

Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief
Legal Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland
Industries, Inc. for three years where he served most recently as Associate
General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The
Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General
Counsel when he left to join Farmland.

Julie Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has
held several positions in the Functional Group organization. She was promoted
to Vice President and to the position of Chief People Officer in August of
2003.

Richard J. Flanigan, Jr. joined the Company in November 1994 as a Regional Vice
President. In 1997, his responsibilities were extended and he was named as
General Manager. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2000 and to
President of Cerner North Atlantic in January 2003. Prior to joining Cerner,
Mr. Flanigan spent more than thirteen years in sales and management positions
at IBM Corporation.

Douglas M. Krebs joined the Company in June 1994 as a Regional Vice President.
He was promoted to Senior Vice President and Area Manager in April 1999. In
February 2000, Mr. Krebs was appointed as President of Cerner Global. Prior to
joining Cerner, he spent fifteen years with IBM Corporation.

John Peterzalek joined the Company in July 2003 as Senior Vice President and
President of Cerner South East. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peterzalek
was with Perot Systems for more than ten years.

Stanley M. Sword joined the Company in August 1998 as Vice President and Chief
People Officer. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002. In
August of 2003, he was appointed President of



Cerner Great Lakes. Prior to joining Cerner, Mr. Sword spent five years at
AT&T (three years as the Vice President of Organization Development of NCR
Corporation and two years as a client partner in the outsourcing practice of
AT&T Solutions). Prior to joining AT&T, Mr. Sword spent ten years with
Accenture Consulting in a variety of roles within the systems integration
practice.

Zane M. Burke joined the Company in September 1996 as U.S. Corporate
Controller. Since that time he has held several positions in the finance
organization and was promoted to Vice President in 2000 and to President of
Cerner West in January 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Burke was with
KPMG LLP for six years.

Mike Valentine joined the Company in December 1998 as Director of Technology.
He was promoted to Vice President in 2000 and to President of Cerner Mid
America in January of 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Valentine was
with Accenture Consulting.



PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters

The Company’s common stock trades on

The NASDAQ Stock Market

®

under the symbol
CERN. The following table sets forth the high, low and last sales prices for
the fiscal quarters of 2003 and 2002 as reported by

The NASDAQ National Market
System

. These quotations represent prices between dealers and do not include
retail mark-up, mark-down or commissions, and do not necessarily represent
actual transactions.



High

Low

Last

High

Low

Last

First quarter

38.45

30.22

32.81

52.06

43.14

47.71

Second quarter

32.38

16.50

23.25

57.00

46.23

47.83

Third quarter

37.55

20.08

31.42

45.54

35.88

35.99

Fourth quarter

46.12

30.87

38.51

38.34

27.65

29.50

At January 31, 2004, there were approximately 1,600 owners of record

.

To date,
the Company has paid no dividends and it does not intend to pay dividends in
the foreseeable future. Management believes it is in the shareholders’ best
interest to reinvest funds in the operation of the business.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data






(1)(2)(3)

(4)(5)

(6)(7)

(11)(12)(13)

(In thousands, except per share data)

(8)(9)(10)

Statements of Earnings Data:

Revenues

$

839,587

780,262

560,802

414,551

357,768

Operating earnings

78,097

90,820

61,350

21,922

1,768

Earnings (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principle

71,222

80,625

(63,314

)

172,123

(1,958

)

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting for goodwill,
net of $486 income tax benefit

—

(786

)

—

—

—

Net earnings (loss)

42,791

48,022

(42,366

)

105,265

(1,211

)

Earnings (loss) per share:

Basic

1.21

1.36

(1.21

)

3.08

(.04

)

Diluted

1.18

1.30

(1.21

)

2.96

(.04

)

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

35,355

35,458

34,907

34,123

33,623

Diluted

36,356

37,050

34,907

35,603

33,916

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

251,500

282,135

189,488

186,181

170,053

Total assets

843,754

779,279

712,302

616,411

660,891

Long-term debt, net

124,570

136,636

92,132

102,299

100,000

Stockholders’ equity

494,680

441,244

394,839

343,717

378,937





Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction

Cerner Corporation (“Cerner” or the “Company”) is headquartered in North Kansas
City, Missouri. Cerner derives revenue by selling, implementing and supporting
software solutions and hardware that gives healthcare providers secure access
to clinical, administrative and financial data in real time, allowing them to
improve the quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of healthcare.
Cerner implements these solutions as stand-alone, combined or enterprise-wide
systems.

Cerner

solutions can be managed by its clients or in Cerner’s data
center via a managed services model.

Results Overview

Cerner had a strong finish to 2003 after a slow start that was caused by a
lower than expected level of new business bookings in the first quarter of the
year. New business bookings reflect the value of contracts for software,
hardware, services and managed services (hosting of software in Cerner’s data
center). The new business bookings shortfall in the first quarter was
approximately $50 million, and it resulted in lower than expected revenue and
earnings for the first quarter and full year because some of these bookings
would have been reflected as first quarter revenue and much of the remainder
would have been included in subsequent quarters.

Reflecting on the first quarter bookings shortfall, management does not believe
that it reflected a fundamental change in the demand for the Company’s
solutions and services. This assessment is supported by the fact that, after
recording first quarter bookings of $151,000,000, the Company averaged
$220,000,000 of bookings in each of the three remaining quarters of 2003. For
the full-year, the Company continued to gain market share in the healthcare
information technology industry, with approximately 40% of its new business
contract bookings coming from clients that had no prior relationship with the
Company. Total new business bookings, which includes contract bookings,
enhancement bookings and additional service bookings, were $811,200,000 in
2003, an increase of 10% compared to $735,600,000 in 2002.

Total revenues increased 8% in 2003 to $839,587,000, with the majority of the
increase driven by increased support, maintenance and services revenue. System
sales revenues, which include software, hardware and sublicensed software, were
basically flat. System sales revenues did not increase as much as management
had expected because of the aforementioned first quarter bookings shortfall and
because of a shift in the mix of bookings during the year. The booking mix
shift was driven by stronger demand for managed services and subscription
offerings, which are recognized as revenue over a longer period of time than
other types of bookings. Managed service and subscription bookings accounted
for more than 20% of total bookings in 2003 compared to about 15% in 2002.
The mix shift in bookings is also reflected in the Company’s contract backlog
growth. In 2003, the Company’s contract backlog, which contains bookings that
have not yet been recognized as revenue, grew 28% to $938,221,000 compared to
total revenue growth of 8%, indicating that the Company still created strong
levels of new business, but that this new business will be recognized as
revenue over a longer period of time.

Net earnings for the year declined from $48,022,000 to $42,791,000. This
decline was driven largely by the lower level of first quarter bookings and
resulting lower level of revenue despite an increased level of spending in
anticipation of supporting higher top line growth. By the end of the year, the
impact of the first quarter was mostly complete, with fourth quarter 2003
operating margins at 12.7 %, which was in line with the level they were in the
fourth quarter of 2002. Going forward, management believes the Company can
expand operating margins from current levels by expanding margins on services,
leveraging investments in research and development, and controlling sales,
general and administrative spending.

Operationally, the Company had an outstanding year in 2003. The Company
brought nearly 900

Cerner Millennium

solutions live in 2003, bringing the
cumulative number of solutions implemented to more than 2,600 at more than 550
client facilities. These results included significant progress at implementing
computerized physician order entry (CPOE), which is the application generating
the highest level of industry attention.



The Company’s strong operational performance is also reflected in its cash flow
results. In 2003, the Company generated $134,150,000 of cash flow from
operations, with days sales outstanding decreasing from 116 days at the end of
2002 to 103 days at the end of 2003. This strong performance was driven by
continued improvements in delivering value to clients, which we believe makes
it easier to obtain better payment terms in the Company’s contracts.

In 2003, the Company organized geographically. The Company’s six geographic
business segments are: Great Lakes, Mid-America, North Atlantic, Southeast,
West and Global. The Company has not presented comparable information for
prior periods as necessary information is not available and the cost to develop
it would be excessive.

Operating Segments

Great

Mid-

North

South-


Lakes

America

Atlantic

east

West

Global

Other

Total

Revenues

$

153,949

$

160,633

$

149,585

$

145,312

$

161,840

$

54,191

$

14,077

$

839,587

Cost of revenues

36,910

35,447

37,520

40,784

28,321

13,450

1,858

194,290

Operating expenses

24,897

24,815

26,788

29,454

28,223

35,814

397,209

567,200

Total costs and
expenses

61,807

60,262

64,308

70,238

56,544

49,264

399,067

761,490

Operating earnings

$

92,142

$

100,371

$

85,277

$

75,074

$

105,296

$

4,927

$

(384,990

)

$

78,097

Healthcare Information Technology Market

The Company believes the market for healthcare information technology remains
substantial. The healthcare industry continues to significantly outpace the
growth of the economy, with the most recent Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services data indicating that healthcare spending in the United States totaled
$1.7 trillion in 2003, representing approximately 15% of the Gross Domestic
Product, after holding steady at 13.3% through most of the 1990’s. The Company
believes that volume from the front edge of the aging baby boomers is a
fundamental driver behind this growth. And based on the demographics, the
volume will increase over the next 20 years.

The Company believes a convergence is occurring among many of healthcare’s
major stakeholders, including hospital and health system boards of directors,
chief executives, and the doctors and nurses. This convergence is lessening
resistance to making fundamental changes, and these major stakeholders are
beginning to accept the adoption of healthcare information technology as
strategic to their success.

Cerner

solutions and services provide
opportunities to alter the manual and inefficient manner in which this industry
operates, as well as to address the issues of quality, safety, efficiency and
workforce shortages.

Further, the healthcare information technology industry stands to benefit as
investment in information technology increasingly becomes a hot political
topic. For example, the Medicare reform bill contains important provisions on
quality and pay-for-performance—a foundation that should accelerate the
industry’s automation efforts. And the President affirmatively mentioned
“computerizing health records” in his January 2004 State of the Union Address.

There are also generally positive trends in the condition of healthcare
providers, and the Company views their overall condition as relatively stable,
with the primary exception being hospitals with a higher mix of Medicaid
revenues. Recent data from S&P supports the belief that the economic health of
providers is stabilizing as it indicates that higher reimbursement, coupled
with sustained demand for services, should improve the credit quality of
hospitals.

Results of Operations

Year Ended January 3, 2004, Compared to Year Ended December 28, 2002

The Company’s revenues increased 8% to $839,587,000 in 2003 from $780,262,000
in 2002. The Company had net earnings of $42,791,000 in 2003 compared to
$48,022,000 in 2002. Operating results



for 2002, as described below, included a gain on the sale of available-for-sale
securities and a charge for the impairment of investments, and a change in
accounting principle for goodwill. The decrease in net earnings is due
primarily to a higher increase in expenses than revenue compared to the prior
year. As discussed above, revenue increased less than the Company expected
because of the decrease in new contract bookings in the first quarter of 2003
and the shift in bookings mix to more managed services and subscription
bookings which are recognized as revenue over longer periods of time. The
increase in expenses was driven primarily by continued investments in the
Company’s development of software and by sales and client services expenses.
Expense also increased because the Company’s 2003 fiscal year consisted of 53
weeks compared to 52 weeks in 2002. Operating results for 2002, as described
below, included a gain on the sale of available-for-sale securities and a
charge for the impairment of investments, and a change in accounting principle
for goodwill.

Revenues

- In 2003, revenues increased due to an increase in support of
installed systems and an increase in services. Support, maintenance and
service revenues increased 14% to $476,795,000 in 2003 from $419,578,000 in
2002. Support and maintenance revenues were $209,877,000 and $171,238,000 in
2003 and 2002, respectively. Services revenues were $266,918,000 and
$248,340,000 in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Included in support, maintenance
and service revenues are support and maintenance of software and hardware and
professional services, excluding installation. This increase in support and
maintenance revenue was due primarily to the increase in the Company’s
installed and converted client base, that was driven by bringing a record
number of

Cerner Millennium

solutions live in 2002 and 2003. The increase in
services revenue was driven primarily by an increase in revenue from managed
services, which increased $20,000,000 to $34,000,000 as the Company continued
to experience high levels of demand for hosting solutions in its data center.

System sales were $332,349,000 in 2003 compared to $332,274,000 in 2002.
Included in system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware and
sublicensed software. System sales were flat because of the aforementioned
first quarter bookings shortfall and because of a shift in the mix of bookings
during the year.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2003, the Company began including proceeds
from reimbursed travel expense in revenue with a corresponding amount included
in cost of revenues. This change has no impact on the dollar amount of gross
margin, operating margin or net earnings, but does slightly change the percent
of revenue each of these items represent. Reimbursed travel was $30,443,000 in
2003 compared to $28,410,000 in 2002.

At January 3, 2004, the Company had $938,221,000 in contract backlog and
$312,887,000 in support and maintenance backlog, compared to $732,719,000 in
contract backlog and $269,153,000 in support and maintenance backlog at the end
of 2002.

Cost of Revenues

- The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel
expense, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer
hardware and sublicensed software purchased from computer and software
manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware
maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the
manufacturers. The cost of revenues was 23% of total revenues in 2003, and 24%
of total revenues in 2002. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically
have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, services and support)
components carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The
decrease in the cost of revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted
principally from a decrease in the percent of revenue from computer hardware
and sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue percentage. The
Company believes this trend could continue because of strong demand for its
managed service offering, which results in lower hardware sales because the
client does not pay for hardware upfront when it chooses this offering.

Sales and Client Service

- Sales and client service expenses include salaries
of client service personnel, communications expenses and unreimbursed travel
expenses. Also included are sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses,
tradeshow costs and advertising costs. These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 42% and 41% in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in total
sales and client service expenses is attributable to the cost of marketing of
solutions. Expenses also increased due to the extra week in the 2003 fiscal
year as described above.



Software Development

- Software development expenses include salaries,
documentation and other direct expenses incurred in software development and
amortization of software development costs. Total expenditures for software
development, including both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 2003
and 2002 were $179,999,000 and $149,985,000, respectively. These amounts
exclude amortization. Capitalized software costs were $58,736,000 and
$49,984,000 for 2003 and 2002, respectively.

General and Administrative

- General and administrative expenses include
salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staffs, utilities,
communications expenses and professional fees. These expenses as a percent of
total revenues were 7% and 6% in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Interest Expense, Net

-

Interest income was $1,219,000 in 2003 compared to
$1,080,000 in 2002. This increase is due primarily to an increase in invested
cash in 2003 compared to 2002. Interest expense was $8,236,000 in 2003
compared to $6,635,000 in 2002. This increase is due primarily to the increase
in debt. On December 20, 2002, the Company completed a $60,000,000 private
placement of debt pursuant to a Note Agreement dated December 15, 2002.

Other Income, Net

- Other income increased to $142,000 in 2003 from $87,000 in
2002. Included in other revenues are revenues from office space leased to
third parties.

Gain (Loss) on Sale of
Investment -

In December 2002, the Company exercised
1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an exercise price of $3.08 and a cost basis
and carrying value of $4,146,000. The warrants were scheduled to expire on
January 26, 2003. In December 2002, the Company sold 1,048,783 shares of
WebMD for $8,242,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded an investment gain of
$527,000, net of $342,000 in tax, as a result of the exercise of the warrants
and the sale of the shares. In the second quarter of 2002, the Company sold
14,820,527 shares of WebMD for $90,119,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded
an investment gain of $2,736,000, net of $1,572,000 in tax, as a result of the
sale.

Impairment of Investment -

The Company’s policy is to review declines in fair
value of its marketable equity securities for declines that may be other than
temporary. Based on events occurring in the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company recorded a charge of $6,281,000, net of tax of $3,623,000, for the
impairment of various investments in non-publicly traded securities. The
charge is primarily related to a $3,464,000, net of tax, write down of the
Company’s investment in Protocare, Inc, a non-publicly traded company.

Income Taxes

- The Company’s effective tax rate was 39.9% in 2003 and 39.4% in
2002. As a result of a decrease in net income from 2002 to 2003, the impact of
permanent differences increased the Company’s effective tax rate.

Accounting Change

- Effective December 30, 2001, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” As a result, goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are evaluated for
impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill
is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an impairment test
based on fair value. The Company completed its transitional review of the
Company’s goodwill values in the second quarter of 2002. As a result of this
review, the Company determined that goodwill arising from the acquisition of
Mitch Cooper and Associates was impaired due to declining demand and margins in
this business. Mitch Cooper and Associates was a supply chain re-engineering
consulting practice. The impairment charge to reflect this goodwill at fair
value was $786,000, net of tax, and is reflected as a cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle as of the beginning of 2002. The Company used a
discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting
units.

Year Ended December 28, 2002, Compared to Year Ended December 29, 2001

The Company’s revenues increased 39% to $780,262,000 in 2002 from $560,802,000
in 2001. The Company had net earnings of $48,022,000 in 2002 compared to a net
loss of $42,366,000 in 2001. Operating results for 2002, as described
below, included a gain on the sale of available-for-sale securities
and a charge for the impairment of investments, and a change in accounting
principle for goodwill.



Operating results for 2001, as described below,
included a gain on software license settlement and investment losses.

Revenues

- In 2002, revenues increased due to an increase in system sales,
support of installed systems and an increase in services. System sales
increased 36% to $332,274,000 in 2002 from $244,979,000 in 2001. Included in
system sales are revenues from the sale of software, hardware and sublicensed
software. The increase in system sales is due to an increase in new contract
bookings in 2002 compared to 2001.

Support, maintenance and service revenues increased 41% to $419,578,000 in 2002
from $297,444,000 in 2001. Support and maintenance revenues were $171,238,000
and $140,666,000 in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Services revenues were
$248,340,000 and $156,778,000 in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Included in
support, maintenance and service revenues are support and maintenance of
software and hardware, and professional services, excluding installation. This
increase was due primarily to the increase in professional services, resulting
from an increase in services related to and services provided into the
Company’s installed and converted client base.

At December 28, 2002, the Company had $732,719,000 in contract backlog and
$269,153,000 in support and maintenance backlog, compared to $566,280,000 in
contract backlog and $221,393,000 in support and maintenance backlog at the end
of 2001.

Cost of Revenues

- The cost of revenues includes the cost of reimbursed travel
expense, third party consulting services and subscription content, computer
hardware and sublicensed software purchased from computer and software
manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware
maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the
manufacturers. The cost of revenues was 24% of total revenues in 2002, and 21%
of total revenues in 2001. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically
have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, services and support)
components carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. The
increase in the cost of revenue as a percent of total revenues resulted
principally from an increase in the percent of revenue from computer hardware
and sublicensed software, which carry a higher cost of revenue percentage.

Sales and Client Service

- Sales and client service expenses include salaries
of client service personnel, communications expenses and unreimbursed travel
expenses. Also included are sales and marketing salaries, travel expenses,
tradeshow costs and advertising costs. These expenses as a percent of total
revenues were 41% in 2002 and 40% in 2001. The increase in total sales and
client service expenses is attributable to the cost of a larger field sales and
services organization and marketing of new solutions.

Software Development

- Software development expenses include salaries,
documentation and other direct expenses incurred in software development and
amortization of software development costs. Total expenditures for software
development, including both capitalized and noncapitalized portions, for 2002
and 2001 were $149,985,000 and $113,872,000, respectively. These amounts
exclude amortization. Capitalized software costs were $49,984,000 and
$37,828,000 for 2002 and 2001, respectively.

General and Administrative

- General and administrative expenses include
salaries for corporate, financial and administrative staffs, utilities,
communications expenses and professional fees. These expenses as a percent of
total revenues were 6% in 2002 and 7% in 2001.

Interest Expense, Net

-

Interest income was $1,080,000 in 2002 compared to
$2,896,000 in 2001. This decrease is due primarily to a decrease in interest
rates and average invested cash. Interest expense was $6,635,000 in 2002
compared to $7,321,000 in 2001, primarily as a result of lower borrowing
levels during the year.

Other Income, Net

- Other income decreased to $87,000 in 2002 from $182,000 in
2001. Included in other revenues are revenues from office space leased to
third parties.

Gain (Loss) on Sale of
Investment -

In December 2002, the Company exercised
1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an exercise price of $3.08 and a cost basis
and carrying value of $4,146,000. The warrants



were scheduled to expire on
January 26, 2003. In December 2002, the Company sold 1,048,783 shares of
WebMD for $8,242,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded an investment gain of
$527,000, net of $342,000 in tax, as a result of the exercise of the warrants
and the sale of the shares. In the second quarter of 2002, the Company sold
14,820,527 shares of WebMD for $90,119,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded
an investment gain of $2,736,000, net of $1,572,000 in tax, as a result of the
sale.

Impairment of Investment -

The Company’s policy is to review declines in fair
value of its marketable equity securities for declines that may be other than
temporary. Based on events occurring in the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company recorded a charge of $6,281,000, net of tax of $3,623,000, for the
impairment of various investments in non-publicly traded securities. The
charge is primarily related to a $3,464,000, net of tax, write down of the
Company’s investment in Protocare, Inc, a non-publicly traded company.
During the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a write-down of its
investment in WebMD from $15.00 to $5.79. Accordingly, the Company recognized
a charge to earnings of $81,419,000, net of $46,197,000 in tax.

Gain on Software License
Settlement -

On June 18, 2001, the Company reached an
agreement with WebMD Corporation regarding certain performance metrics related
to specified levels of physician usage arising out of the original license
transaction between the Company and WebMD. Under the agreement, the Company
received 2,000,000 shares of WebMD stock, valued at $11,580,000, in exchange
for $432,000 in cash and the cancellation of various obligations due to the
Company by WebMD. As a result of this agreement, the Company recognized a gain
of $4,836,000, net of $2,744,000 in tax.

Income Taxes

- The Company’s effective tax rate was an expense of 39% in 2002
and a benefit of 33% in 2001. The benefit is a result of the loss on the WebMD
shares and other permanent differences.

Accounting Change

- Effective December 30, 2001, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” As a result, goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are evaluated for
impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill
is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an impairment test
based on fair value. The Company completed its transitional review of the
Company’s goodwill values in the second quarter of 2002. As a result of this
review, the Company determined that goodwill arising from the acquisition of
Mitch Cooper and Associates was impaired due to declining demand and margins in
this business. Mitch Cooper and Associates was a supply chain re-engineering
consulting practice. The impairment charge to reflect this goodwill at fair
value was $786,000, net of tax, and is reflected as a cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle as of the beginning of 2002. The Company used a
discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting
units.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company’s liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and
timing of the Company’s revenues, its cash collections from its clients and the
amounts the Company invests in software development, acquisitions and capital
expenditures.

The Company’s principal source of liquidity is its cash and cash equivalents.
The majority of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents consist of U.S.
Government Federal Agency Securities, short-term marketable securities and
overnight repurchase agreements. At January 3, 2004 the Company had cash and
cash equivalents of $121,839,000 and working capital of $251,500,000 compared
to cash and cash equivalents of $142,543,000 and working capital of
$282,135,000 at December 28, 2002.

The Company generated cash of $134,150,000, $36,906,000 and $64,838,000 from
operations in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Cash flow from operations
increased in 2003 due primarily to increased collections of receivables,
improved payment terms and record level conversions. The Company has
periodically provided long-term financing options to creditworthy clients
through third party financing institutions and has on occasion directly
provided extended payment terms from contract date. Certain of these
receivables have been assigned on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
institutions. The Company has provided its usual and customary
performance guarantees to the third party financing institutions in
connection with its on-going obligations under the client contract. During 2003 and 2002, the Company generated cash flow from third party client
financing arrangements and non-recourse payment assignments aggregating
$58,654,000 and $30,073,000, respectively. Days



sales outstanding decreased
from 116 days at the end of 2002 to 103 days at the end of 2003. Although the
Company continues with its initiative to improve days sales outstanding, we do
not expect the rate of decline experienced in 2003 to continue. Revenues
provided under support and maintenance agreements represent recurring cash
flows. Support and maintenance revenues increased 23% in 2003 and 22% in each
of 2002 and 2001, and the Company expects these revenues to continue to grow as
the base of installed systems grows.

Cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of capitalized software
development costs of $58,736,000 and $49,984,000 and purchases of capital
equipment, land and buildings of $83,583,000 and $59,699,000 in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. In the first quarter of 2002, the Company began construction of
a new facility situated between the buildings located at 2800 and 2900
Rockcreek Parkway on the Company’s World Headquarter’s campus (Campus). This
facility was completed on August 1, 2003 and is approximately 123,000 square
feet in size. This new facility, referred to as Cerner’s World Headquarters
Building, houses offices, a cafeteria and meeting space for the Company. In
2002, the Company also began construction of a new office building located on
the Campus. This facility was completed in December of 2003 and houses office
and meeting space for the Company. The Company also completed acquisitions of
businesses for $6,380,000 and $26,016,000, net of cash received, in 2003 and
2002, respectively. In 2002, the Company had proceeds from the sale of shares
of WebMD of $95,134,000.

Prior to June 2002, the Company had a loan agreement with a bank that provided
for a current revolving line of credit for working capital purposes. In June
2002, the Company expanded its credit facility by entering into an unsecured
revolving credit agreement with a group of banks led by U.S. Bank. The new
credit facility increased the amount the Company may borrow from $45,000,000 to
$90,000,000. The fee rate on the new facility is approximately the same as the
prior facility. The revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires monthly
payments of interest only. Interest is payable at the Company’s option at a
rate based on prime (4.00% at January 3, 2004) or LIBOR (1.12% at January 3,
2004) plus 2%. The interest rate may be reduced by up to 1% if certain net
worth ratios are maintained. At January 3, 2004, the Company had no
outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had $90,000,000 available for
working capital purposes. The agreement contains certain net worth, debt
levels and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on
the Company’s ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. A
commitment fee of 1/2% or 3/10% is payable quarterly based on the usage of the
revolving line of credit. The revolving line of credit matures on May 31,
2005. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2004.

In December 2002, the Company completed a $60,000,000 private placement of debt
pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21,000,000
principal amount at 5.57%, are payable in three equal annual installments
beginning in December 2006. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39,000,000
principal amount at 6.42%, are payable in four equal annual installments
beginning December 2009. The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding
amount under the bank loan agreement and will be used for general corporate
purposes. The Note Agreement contains certain net worth and fixed charge
coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on the Company’s ability
to borrow, incur liens, sell assets and pay dividends. The Company was in
compliance with all covenants at January 3, 2004.

In April 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000 private placement of debt
pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000
principal amount at 7.14%, are payable in five equal annual installments
beginning in April 2002. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40,000,000
principal amount at 7.66%, are payable in six equal annual installments
beginning April 2004. The proceeds were used to retire the Company’s existing
$30,000,000 of debt, and the remaining funds were used for capital improvements
and to strengthen the Company’s cash position. The Note Agreement contains
certain net worth, current, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides
certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to borrow, incur liens, sell
assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at
January 3, 2004.

The Company believes that its present cash position, together with cash
generated from operations and if necessary the line of credit, will be
sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2004.



The following table represents a summary of the Company’s contractual
obligations and commercial commitments as of January 3, 2004, except
short-term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course.

Payments due by period

2009 and

Contractual Obligations (in thousands)






thereafter

Total

Long-Term Debt Obligations

21,162

21,358

28,246

15,004

14,295

45,667

145,732

Lease Obligations

11,320

6,121

4,184

3,085

2,659

6,872

34,241

Acquisition Related Commitments

4,318

—

—

5,000

—

—

9,318

Supplier Software Purchase Commitments

6,117

1,592

—

—

—

—

7,709

Other

1,233

1,800

1,700

—

—

—

4,733

Total

44,150

30,871

34,130

23,089

16,954

52,539

201,733

The effects of inflation on the Company’s business during 2003, 2002 and 2001
were not significant.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Company believes that there are several accounting policies that are
critical to understanding the Company’s historical and future performance, as
these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant
areas involving management’s judgments and estimates. These significant
accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, other
than temporary declines in the market value of investments, concentrations,
allowance for doubtful accounts and potential impairments of goodwill. These
policies and the Company’s procedures related to these policies are described
in detail below and under specific areas within the Discussion and Analysis of
the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Note
1 to the accompanying financial statements expands upon discussion of the
Company’s accounting policies.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes its multiple element arrangements, including software
and software-related services, using the residual method under SOP 98-9. Key
factors in our revenue recognition model are management’s assessments that
installation services are essential to the functionality of our software
whereas implementation services are not. If our business model were to
change such that implementation services became essential to the functionality
of our software, the period of time over which our licensed software revenue
were to be recognized would lengthen. We generally recognize revenue from the
sale of our licensed software over two key milestones, delivery and
installation, based on percentages that reflect the underlying effort from
planning to installation. Additionally, if the time to achieve our delivery
and installation milestones for our licensed software were to be accelerated or
decelerated, our milestones would be adjusted and the timing of revenue
recognition for our licensed software could materially change.

Software Development Costs

Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions are expensed
until technological feasibility has been established upon completion of a
detailed program design. Thereafter, all software development costs are
capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of amortized cost or net
realizable value. Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and
expected future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual
amortization equal to the straight-line amortization over the estimated
economic life of the software solution. The Company is amortizing capitalized
costs over five years.

The Company expects that major software information systems companies, large
information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators,
Internet-based start-up companies and others
specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive products or
services. The pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is
rapid and there are frequent new product introductions,



product enhancements
and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized
software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to
impairment.

Investments

The Company accounts for its investments in equity securities, which have
readily determinable fair values as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale
securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. For realized gains and losses on available-for-sale
investments, the Company utilizes the specific identification method as the
basis to determine cost. Investments in the common stock of certain affiliates
over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted for by the
equity method.

The Company has certain other minority equity investments in non-publicly
traded securities. These investments are generally carried at cost as the
Company owns less than 20% of the voting equity and does not have the ability
to exercise significant influence over these companies. The balance of these
investments at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $680,000 and $876,000,
respectively. These investments are inherently high risk as the market for
technologies and content by these companies are usually early stage at the time
of the investment by the Company and such markets may never be significant.
The Company could lose its entire investment in certain or all of these
companies. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and makes
appropriate reductions in carrying values when necessary.

The Company reviews all equity securities for declines in fair value. If such
declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the
individual security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the
amount of the write-down is included in earnings.

Concentrations

Substantially all of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments, are held at three major U.S. financial institutions. The majority
of the Company’s cash equivalents consist of U.S. Government Federal Agency
Securities, short-term marketable securities and overnight repurchase
agreements. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance
provided on such deposits. Generally these deposits may be redeemed upon
demand and, therefore, bear minimal risk.

Substantially all of the Company’s clients are integrated delivery networks,
hospitals and other healthcare related organizations. If significant adverse
macro-economic factors were to impact these organizations it could materially
adversely affect the Company. The Company’s access to certain software and
hardware components is dependent upon single and sole source suppliers. The
inability of any supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could
affect future results.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

If the creditworthiness of our clients were to weaken or our collections
results relative to historical experience were to decline, it could have a
material adverse impact on operations and cash flows.

Goodwill

Effective December 30, 2001, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.” As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
no longer amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there
is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit,
where it is subject to an impairment test based on fair value. The Company
completed its transitional review of the Company’s goodwill values in the
second quarter of 2002. As a result of this review, the Company determined
that goodwill arising from the acquisition of Mitch Cooper and Associates was
impaired due to declining demand and margins in this business. Mitch Cooper
and Associates was a supply chain re-engineering consulting practice. The
impairment charge to reflect this goodwill at fair value was
$786,000, net of tax, and is reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle as of the beginning of 2002. The Company again assessed
its goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of



2003 and concluded that no
goodwill was impaired. The Company used a discounted cash flow analysis to
determine the fair value of the reporting units for all periods. The Company
completed three acquisitions subsequent to June 30, 2001, which resulted in
approximately, $36.7 million of goodwill that was not amortized in accordance
with SFAS 142. For the year ended 2001, earnings included $1,758,000 of
amortization of goodwill, net of tax. Goodwill amounted to $51,573,000 and
$45,938,000 at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2003, respectively. If future,
anticipated cash flows from the Company’s reporting units, that recognized
goodwill, did not materialize as expected the Company’s goodwill could be
impaired, which would result in significant write-offs.

Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or
Business

Statements made in this report, the Annual Report to Shareholders in which this
report is made a part, other reports and proxy statements filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, communications to shareholders, press
releases and oral statements made by representatives of the Company that are
not historical in nature, or that state the Company’s or management’s
intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions of the future, may
constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of
forward-looking terminology, such as “could,” “should,” “will,” “intended,”
“continue,” “believe,” “may,” “expect,” “hope,” “anticipate,” “goal,”
“forecast,” “plan,” or “estimate” or the negative of these words, variations
thereof or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees
of future performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and
assumptions. It is important to note that any such performance and actual
results, financial condition or business, could differ materially from those
expressed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or
contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed
below as well as those discussed elsewhere herein or in other reports filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unforeseen factors not
identified herein could also have such an effect. The Company undertakes no
obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed
assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future
operating results, financial condition or business over time.

Quarterly Operating Results
May Vary - The Company’s quarterly operating
results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods.
Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including
accounting policy changes mandated by regulating entities, demand for the
Company’s software solutions and services, the Company’s long sales cycle,
potentially long installation and implementation cycles for these larger, more
complex and costlier systems and other factors described in this section and
elsewhere in this report. As a result of healthcare industry trends and the
market for the Company’s

Cerner Millennium

solutions, a large percentage of the
Company’s revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more
complex and costlier systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy
and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and
other resources by the client. The sale may be subject to delays due to
clients’ internal budgets and procedures for approving large capital
expenditures and by competing needs for other capital expenditures and
deploying new technologies or personnel resources. Delays in the expected sale
or installation of these large contracts may have a significant impact on the
Company’s anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently its earnings, since a
significant percentage of the Company’s expenses are relatively fixed.

These larger, more complex and costlier systems are installed and implemented
over time periods ranging from approximately one month to three years and may
involve significant efforts both by the Company and the client. The Company
recognizes revenue upon the completion of standard milestone conditions and the
amount of revenue recognized in any quarter depends upon the Company’s and the
client’s ability to meet these project milestones. Delays in meeting these
milestone conditions or modification of the contract relating to one or more of
these systems could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter
to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations
for a particular quarter. In addition, support payments by clients for the
Company’s solutions generally do not commence until the solution is in use.



The Company’s revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the
first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year,
primarily as a result of the clients’ year-end efforts to make all final
capital expenditures for the then current year.

Stock Price May Be Volatile - The trading price of the Company’s common stock
may be volatile. The market for the Company’s common stock may experience
significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors
including actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results,
rumors about the Company’s performance or software solutions, changes in
expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of
securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform
measures, client relationship developments, changes occurring in the securities
markets in general and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s
control. As a matter of policy, the Company does not generally comment on
rumors.

Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software,
healthcare and information technology companies in particular, has experienced
extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance
of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may
adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of
actual operating performance.

Market Risk of Investments - The Company accounts for its investments in equity
securities, which have readily determinable fair values as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains
and losses reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. Investments in the common stock of certain affiliates
over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted for by the
equity method. Investments in other equity securities are reported at cost.
The Company reviews all equity securities for declines in fair value. If such
declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the
individual security is written down to fair value at a new cost basis, and the
amount of the write-down is included in earnings.

The Company also has certain other minority equity investments in non-publicly
traded securities. These investments are generally carried at cost as the
Company owns less than 20% of the voting equity and does not have the ability
to exercise significant influence over these companies. The carrying value of
these investments at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $680,000 and
$876,000, respectively. These investments are inherently high risk as the
market for technologies and content by these companies are usually early stage
at the time of the investment by the Company and such markets may never be
significant. The Company could lose its entire investment in certain or all of
these companies. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and
makes appropriate reductions in carrying values when necessary.

At January 3, 2004, marketable securities (which consist of money market and
commercial paper) of the Company were recorded at cost, which approximates fair
value of approximately $122 million, with an overall average return of
approximately 1.56% and an overall weighted maturity of less than 90 days. The
marketable securities held by the Company are not subject to significant price
risk as a result of the short-term nature of the investments.

The Company has limited exposure to material future earnings or cash flow
exposures from changes in interest rates on long-term debt since substantially
all of its long-term debt is at a fixed rate. The Company also had no
borrowings outstanding under its working capital line of credit, which has a
variable interest rate based on prime (4% at January 3, 2004) or LIBOR (1.12%
at January 3, 2004) plus 2%. To date, the Company has not
entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk.

The Company conducts business in several foreign jurisdictions. However, the
business transacted is in the local functional currency and the Company does
not currently have any material exposure to foreign currency transaction gains
or losses. All other business transactions are in U.S. dollars. To date, the
Company has not entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage
foreign currency risk.

Changes in the Healthcare
Industry - The healthcare industry is highly
regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory
influences. For example, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-32)
contains significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid and began to have its
initial



impact in 1998 due to limitations on reimbursement, resulting cost containment
initiatives, and effects on pricing and demand for capital intensive systems.
In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(HIPAA) is having a direct impact on the healthcare industry by requiring
identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and
privacy measures in order to ensure the protection of patient health
information. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of
healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically
considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the
federal and state level and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement
systems. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental
involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the
environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare
industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing
investment decisions, including investments in the Company’s software solutions
and services.

Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare
delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use
their market power to negotiate price reductions for the Company’s software
solutions and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, the Company’s
client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense
and the importance of acquiring each client becomes greater.

Significant Competition - The market for healthcare information systems is
intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological
change. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in this
market include the breadth and quality of system and software solution
offerings, the stability of the information systems provider, the features and
capabilities of the information systems, the ongoing support for the system and
the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions.

Certain of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, technical, product
development, marketing and other resources than the Company and some of its
competitors offer software solutions that it does not offer. The Company’s
principal existing competitors include GE Medical Systems, Siemens Medical
Solutions Health Services Corporation, IDX Systems Corporation, McKesson
Corporation, Eclipsys Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc.
(“Meditech”) and Epic Systems Corporation, each of which offers a suite of
software solutions that compete with many of the Company’s software solutions
and services. There are other competitors that offer a more limited number of
competing software solutions.

In addition, the Company expects that major software information systems
companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system
integrators, Internet-based start-up companies and others specializing in the
healthcare industry may offer competitive software/solutions or services. The
pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there
are frequent new software solution introductions, software solution
enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result,
the Company’s success will depend upon its ability to keep pace with
technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis,
new and enhanced software solutions and services that satisfy changing client
requirements and achieve market acceptance.

Proprietary Technology May Be Subjected to Infringement Claims or May Be
Infringed Upon - The Company relies upon a combination of license agreements,
confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements and technical
measures to maintain the confidentiality and trade secrecy of its proprietary
information. The Company also relies on trademark and copyright laws to
protect its intellectual property. The Company has initiated a patent program
but currently has a very limited patent portfolio. As a result, the Company
may not be able to protect against misappropriation of its intellectual
property.

In addition, the Company could be subject to intellectual property infringement
claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of its software
solutions and services expands. These claims, even if not meritorious, could
be expensive to defend. If the Company becomes liable to third parties for
infringing their intellectual property rights, it could be required to pay a
substantial damage award and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a
license or cease selling the software solutions that contain the infringing
intellectual property.



Government Regulation - The United States Food and Drug Administration (the
“FDA”) has declared that software products intended for the maintenance of data
used in making decisions regarding the suitability of blood donors and the
release of blood or blood components for transfusion are medical devices under
the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“Act”) and amendments to the Act. As
a consequence, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA with
regard to its blood bank software. If other of the Company’s software
solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, the
Company could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and
post-marketing requirements including pre-market notification clearance prior
to marketing. Complying with these FDA regulations would be time consuming and
expensive. It is possible that the FDA may become more active in regulating
computer software that is used in healthcare.

There have been four FDA inspections since 1998 at various Cerner sites. Three
of the FDA inspections resulted in no FDA Form 483 being issued while one of
the four inspections resulted in the issuance of a one item FDA Form 483 that
the Company responded to promptly. There can be no assurance, however, that
the Company’s actions taken in response to the Form 483 will be deemed adequate
by the FDA or that additional actions on behalf of the Company will not be
required. In addition, the Company remains subject to periodic FDA inspections
and there can be no assurances that the Company will not be required to
undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable
regulatory requirements. Any failure by the Company to comply with the Act and
any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s ability to continue to manufacture and distribute its
software solutions. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls,
seizures, injunctions, civil fines and/or criminal prosecutions. Any of the
foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Product Related Liabilities - Many of the Company’s software solutions provide
data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to patients. Although
no such claims have been brought against the Company to date regarding injuries
related to the use of its software solutions, such claims may be made in the
future. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance coverage in
an amount that it believes is sufficient for its business, there can be no
assurance that such coverage will cover a particular claim that may be brought
in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to
remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim brought
against the Company, which is uninsured, or under-insured could materially harm
its business, results of operations or financial condition.

System Errors and Warranties - The Company’s systems, particularly the

Cerner
Millennium

versions, are very complex. As with complex systems offered by
others, the Company’s systems may contain errors, especially when first
introduced. Although the Company conducts extensive testing, it has discovered
software errors in its software solutions after their introduction. The
Company’s systems are intended for use in collecting and displaying clinical
information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Therefore, users
of the Company software solutions have a greater sensitivity to system errors
than the market for software products generally. The Company’s agreements with
its clients typically provide warranties against material errors and other
matters. Failure of a client’s system to meet these criteria could constitute
a material breach under such contracts allowing the client to cancel the
contract and obtain a refund and/or damages, or could require the Company to
incur additional expense in order to make the system meet these criteria. The
Company’s contracts with its clients generally limit the Company’s liability
arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain
jurisdictions or circumstances.

Risks Associated with the Company’s Global Operations – The Company markets,
sells and services its software solutions globally. The Company has
established offices around the world, including in North America, Europe and in
the Asia Pacific region. The Company will continue to expand its global
operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require
significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful
direct and indirect global sales and support channels. In some countries, the
Company’s success will depend in part on its ability to form relationships with
local partners. There is a risk that the Company may sometimes choose the
wrong partner. For these reasons, the Company may not be able to maintain or
increase global market demand for its software solutions.



Global operations are subject to inherent risks, and the Company’s future
results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing
factors. These include:

Recruitment and Retention of Key Personnel – To remain competitive in the
healthcare information technology industry, the Company must attract, motivate
and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, consulting and
technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems
architects skilled in the healthcare information technology industry and the
technical environments in which the Company’s solutions operate. Competition
for such personnel in this industry is intense. The Company’s failure to
attract additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s prospects for long-term growth. The success of the Company is
dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key
management, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel. The Company
has succession plans in place; however, the unexpected loss of key personnel
could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s business and results of
operations, and could potentially inhibit solution development and market share
advances.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Information contained under the caption “Factors That May Affect Future Results
of Operations, Financial Condition or Business — Market Risk of Investments”
set forth under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” in Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Financial Statements and Notes required by this Item are submitted as a
separate part of this report.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures

a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) have
evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by the Annual Report
(the “Evaluation Date’). They have concluded that, as of the
Evaluation Date, these disclosure controls and procedures were
effective to ensure that material information relating to the Company
and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others
within those entities and would be disclosed on a timely basis.



b)

Changes in internal control over financial reporting. As of the
end of the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes
in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the three months ended January 3, 2004 that have
materially affected or are reasonable likely to materially affect the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

c)

Limitations on the effectiveness of controls. The Company’s
management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all error and
fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated,
can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Election of Directors” certain information required by Item 10 of Form
10-K and such information is incorporated herein by this reference. The
information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K as to executive officers is set
forth in Item 4A of Part I hereof.

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934”
certain information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K and such information is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

The Board of Directors has determined that Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D., a
member of the Company’s Audit Committee, is an audit committee financial expert
as that term is defined under Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K.

Code of Conduct; Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters

The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct that
applies to the Company’s principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, controller and all other associates of the Company, including its
directors and other officers. The Company has posted the text of the Code of
Conduct on its website at www.cerner.com under “Investors/Corporate
Governance.”

The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which are posted on the Company’s website at www.cerner.com under
“Investors/Corporate Governance.”

The charters for the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the
Nominating, Governance & Public Policy Committee are also available on the
Company’s website at www.cerner.com under “Investors/Corporate Governance.”

A printed copy of the Code of Conduct and the Corporate Governance Guidelines
is also available to the public at no charge by writing to Cerner Corporation,
Attn. Human Resources, 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri,
64117, or calling the Company’s headquarters at (816) 221-1024.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Executive Compensation” the information required by Item 11 of Form
10-K and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Voting Securities and Principal Holders Thereof”



the information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K and such information is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Certain Transactions” the information required by Item 13 of Form 10-K
and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The Registrant’s Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 28, 2004, will contain under the
caption “Audit and Non-Audit Fees” the information required by Item 14 of Form
10-K and such information is incorporated herein by this reference.



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

Financial Statements and Exhibits.

Number

Description

3(a)

Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated December 5, 2003.

3(b)

Amended and Restated Bylaws, dated March 9, 2001, (filed as Exhibit 4.2
to Registrant’s Form S-8 filed on September 26, 2001 and incorporated
herein by reference).

4(a)

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of March 12, 1999,
between Cerner Corporation and UMB Bank, n.a., as Rights Agents, which
includes the Form of Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
Series A Preferred Stock of Cerner Corporation, as Exhibit A, and the Form
of Rights Certificate, as Exhibit B (filed as an Exhibit to Registrant’s
current report on Form 8-A/A dated March 31, 1999 and incorporated herein
by reference).

4(b)

Specimen stock certificate (filed as Exhibit 4(a) to Registrant’s
Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-15156) and hereby
incorporated herein by reference).



Number

Description

4(c)

Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation and U.S. Bank National
Association as administrative agent and head arranger, and LaSalle Bank
National Association, as document agent, dated as of May 31, 2002 (filed
as Exhibit 4(a) to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 29, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference).

4(d)

First Amendment to Credit Agreement between Cerner Corporation and U.S.
Bank National Association as administrative agent and head arranger, and
LaSalle Bank National Association, as documentation agent, dated as of
July 22, 2002. (filed as Exhibit 4(d) to Registrant’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2002, and incorporated herein by
reference).

4(e)

Cerner Corporation Note Agreement dated as of April 1, 1999 among Cerner
Corporation, Principal Life Insurance Company, Principal Life Insurance
Company, on behalf of one or more separate accounts, Commercial Union Life
Insurance Company of America, Nippon Life Insurance Company of America,
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Variable Life
Insurance Company, and Investors Partner Life Insurance Company (filed as
Exhibit 4(e) to Registrant’s Form 8-K dated April 23, 1999, and
incorporated herein by reference).

10(a)

Incentive Stock Option Plan C of Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1993, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(b)

Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant and Neal L. Patterson,
Clifford W. Illig, Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D. and Thomas C. Tinstman,
M.D., (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant’s Annual report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1992, and incorporated herein by
reference).*

10(c)

Indemnification Agreement between Michael E. Herman and Registrant
(filed as Exhibit 10(i)(a) to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the year ended June 29, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(d)

Indemnification Agreement between John C. Danforth, and Registrant
(filed as Exhibit 10(i)(b) to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the year ended June 29, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(e)

Indemnification Agreement between Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D. and
Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10(e) to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended January 1, 2000, and incorporated herein by
reference).*

10(f)

Indemnification Agreement between William B. Neaves, Ph.D. and Nancy-Ann
DeParle and Registrant (filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to Registrant’s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2001 and incorporated herein
by reference).*

10(g)

Amended Stock Option Plan D of Registrant as of December 8, 2000 (filed
as Exhibit 10(f) to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 30, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(h)

Amended Stock Option Plan E of Registrant as of December 8, 2000 (filed
as Exhibit 10(g) to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 30, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(j)

Long-Term Incentive Plan for 1999 (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2,
1999, and incorporated herein by reference).*



Number

Description

10(k)

Promissory Note of Jack A. Newman, Jr. (filed as Exhibit 10(m) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2,
1999, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(l)

Promissory Notes of Earl H. Devanny, III (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(m)

Cerner Corporation Executive Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(g)
to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-77029)
and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(n)

Form of Stock Pledge Agreement for Cerner Corporation Executive Stock
Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(h) to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-77029) and incorporated herein by
reference).*

10(o)

Form of Promissory Note for Cerner Corporation Executive Stock Purchase
Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(i) to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form
S-8 (File No. 333-77029) and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(p)

Employment Agreement of Earl H. Devanny, III (filed as Exhibit 10(q) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(q)

Employment Agreement of Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D. (filed as Exhibit 10(r) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(r)

Amended Employment Agreement of Glenn P. Tobin, Ph.D., dated October 1,
2003.*

10(s)

Employment Agreement of Stanley M. Sword (filed as Exhibit 10(s) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(t)

Employment Agreement of Jack A. Newman, Jr. (filed as Exhibit 10(s) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(u)

Cerner Corporation 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan F (filed as Annex I to
Registrant’s 2001 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(v)

Cerner Corporation 2001 Associate Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Annex II
Registrant’s 2001 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(w)

Qualified Performance-Based Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(v) to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30,
2000, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10(x)

Note Purchase Agreement between Cerner Corporation and the purchasers
therein, dated December 15, 2002. (filed as Exhibit 10(x) to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference).

10(y)

Cerner Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as
Exhibit 10(y) to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 28, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference).

10(z)

Cerner Corporation Enhanced Severance Pay Plan and Summary Plan
Description dated October 14, 2003.



Number

Description


Computation of Registrant’s Earnings Per Share. (Exhibit omitted.
Information contained in notes to consolidated financial statements.)


Subsidiaries of Registrant.


Consent of Independent Auditors.

31.1

Certification of Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

31.2

Certification of Marc G. Naughton, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section. 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section. 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

* Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements
required to be identified by Item 15(a)(3)(b)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CERNER CORPORATION

Dated: March 17, 2004

By: /s/  Neal L. Patterson

Neal L. Patterson

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Signature and Title

Date

/s/  Neal L. Patterson

March 17, 2004

Neal L. Patterson, Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/  Clifford W. Illig

March 17, 2004

Clifford W. Illig, Vice Chairman and Director

/s/  Marc G. Naughton

March 17, 2004

Marc G. Naughton, Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and

Accounting Officer)

/s/  Michael E. Herman

March 17, 2004

Michael E. Herman, Director

/s/  Gerald E. Bisbee

March 17, 2004

Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D., Director

/s/  John C. Danforth

March 17, 2004

John C. Danforth, Director

/s/   Jeff C. Goldsmith

March 17, 2004

Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D., Director

/s/  William B. Neaves

March 17, 2004

William B. Neaves, Ph.D., Director

/s/  Nancy-Ann DeParle

March 17, 2004

Nancy-Ann DeParle, Director



Independent Auditors’ Report

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Cerner Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cerner
Corporation and subsidiaries as of January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in equity, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 3, 2004.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cerner Corporation
and subsidiaries as of January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended January 3, 2004, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets” on December 30, 2001.

KPMG LLP

Kansas City, Missouri

February 3, 2004

Management’s Report

The management of Cerner Corporation is responsible for the consolidated
financial statements and all other information presented in this report. The
financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America appropriate to
the circumstances, and, therefore, included in the financial statements are
certain amounts based on management’s informed estimates and judgments. Other
financial information in this report is consistent with that in the
consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements have
been audited by Cerner Corporation’s independent certified public accountants
and have been reviewed by the audit committee of the Board of Directors.



Consolidated Balance Sheets

January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002

(In thousands except shares and per share data)



Assets

Current Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

121,839

142,543

Receivables

256,574

272,668

Inventory

12,434

9,041

Prepaid expenses and other

38,132

33,296

Total current assets

428,979

457,548

Property and equipment, net

204,953

134,283

Software development costs, net

141,090

117,327

Goodwill, net

51,573

45,938

Intangible assets, net

24,036

23,155

Investments



Other assets

8,017

9,926

$

859,340

789,141

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Current Liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

20,753

46,822

Current installments of long-term debt

21,162

12,202

Deferred revenue

64,879

45,055

Deferred Income taxes

15,586

14,553

Accrued payroll and tax withholdings

45,004

47,262

Other accrued expenses

10,095

9,519

Total current liabilities

177,479

175,413

Long-term debt, net

124,570

136,636

Deferred income taxes

59,500

35,848

Deferred revenue

1,945

—

Minority owners’ equity interest in subsidiary

1,166

—

Stockholders’ Equity:

Common stock, $.01 par value,150,000,000 shares authorized,
37,057,364 and 36,732,532 shares issued in 2003 and
2002, respectively



Additional paid-in capital

236,969

226,912

Retained earnings

279,363

236,572

Treasury stock, at cost (1,502,999 and 1,202,999 shares in 2003 and
2002, respectively)

(26,793

)

(20,863

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income:

Foreign currency translation adjustment

4,770

(1,668

)

Unrealized loss on available-for-sale equity securities
(net of deferred tax asset of $23 in 2002)

—

(76

)

Total stockholders’ equity

494,680

441,244

Commitments (Note 13)

$

859,340

789,141

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended January 3, 2004, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001

(In thousands, except per share data)




Revenues

System sales

$

332,349

332,274

244,979

Support, maintenance and services

476,795

419,578

297,444

Reimbursed travel

30,443

28,410

18,379

Total revenues

839,587

780,262

560,802

Costs and expenses

Cost of revenues

194,290

190,550

133,985

Sales and client service

352,728

319,265

226,776

Software development

156,236

129,620

100,186

General and administrative

58,236

50,007

38,505

Total costs and expenses

761,490

689,442

499,452

Operating earnings

78,097

90,820

61,350

Other income (expense):

Interest expense, net

(7,017

)

(5,555

)

(4,425

)

Other income, net




Gain (loss) on sale of investments

—

5,177

(385

)

Impairment of investments

—

(9,904

)

(127,616

)

Gain on software license settlement

—

—

7,580

Total other expense, net

(6,875

)

(10,195

)

(124,664

)

Earnings (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of
a change in accounting principle

71,222

80,625

(63,314

)

Income taxes

(28,431

)

(31,817

)

20,948

Earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle

42,791

48,808

(42,366

)

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting for goodwill,
net of $486 income tax benefit

—

(786

)

—

Net earnings (loss)

$

42,791

48,022

(42,366

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle

$

1.21

1.38

(1.21

)

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting for goodwill

—

(0.02

)

—

Basic net earnings (loss) per share

$

1.21

1.36

(1.21

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle

$

1.18

1.32

(1.21

)

Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle

—

(0.02

)

—

Diluted net earnings (loss) per common share

$

1.18

1.30

(1.21

)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of
Changes in Equity

For the years ended January 3, 2004, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001

Accumulated

Additional

Treasury

Other

Common Stock

paid-in

Retained

stock

Comprehensive

Comprehensive

Shares

Amount

capital

Earnings

amount

Income

Income

(In thousands)

Balance at December 30, 2000

35,968

$


192,715

230,916

(20,799

)

(59,475

)

Exercise of options



4,065

—

—

—

Acquisition of business



17,667

—

—

—

Non-employee stock option compensation expense

—

—


—

—

—

Tax benefit from disqualifying disposition of stock options

—

—

2,328

—

—

—

Associate stock purchase plan discounts

—

—

(179

)

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(1,352

)

(1,352

)

Unrealized gain on available-for-sale equity
securities, net of deferred tax expense of $6,810

—

—

—

—

—

12,006

12,006

Reclassification adjustment for losses recognized
in net loss, net of deferred taxes of $33,036

—

—

—

—

—

58,732

58,732

Net loss

—

—

—

(42,366

)

—

—

(42,366

)

Comprehensive income

27,020

Balance at December 29, 2001

36,565

$


216,811

188,550

(20,799

)

9,911

Exercise of options



3,259

—

(64

)

—

Non-employee stock option compensation expense

—

—


—

—

—

Tax benefit from disqualifying disposition of stock options

—

—

1,561

—

—

—

Associate stock purchase plan discounts

—

—

(609

)

—

—

—

Third party warrants

—

—

5,800

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—



Unrealized gain on available-for-sale equity
securities, net of deferred benefit of $14

—

—

—

—

—

(76

)

(76

)

Reclassification adjustment for gains recognized
in net earnings, net of deferred taxes of $6,810

—

—

—

—

—

(12,006

)

(12,006

)

Net earnings

—

—

—

48,022

—

—

48,022

Comprehensive income

36,367

Balance at December 28, 2002

36,733

$


226,912

236,572

(20,863

)

(1,744

)

Exercise of options



6,699

—

—

—

Purchase of treasury shares

—

—

—

—

(5,930

)

—

Non-employee stock option compensation expense

—

—


—

—

—

Tax benefit from disqualifying disposition of stock options

—

—

1,876

—

—

—

Associate stock purchase plan discounts

—

—

(604

)

—

—

—

Third party warrants

—

—

2,052

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

6,438

6,438

Unrealized gain on available-for-sale equity
securities, net of deferred tax expense of $14

—

—

—

—

—



Net earnings

—

—

—

42,791

—

—

42,791

Comprehensive income

49,305

Balance at January 3, 2004

37,057

$


236,969

279,363

(26,793

)

4,770

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows

For the years ended January 3, 2004, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001




(In thousands)

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Net earnings (loss)

$

42,791

48,022

(42,366

)

Adjustments
to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

69,330

57,346

47,305

Common stock received as consideration for sale of license software

—

—

(750

)

Impairments of investments

—

9,904

127,616

Gain on software license settlement

—

—

(7,580

)

Realized (gain) loss on sale of stock

—

(5,177

)


Impairment of goodwill

—

1,272

—

Non-employee stock option compensation expense




Equity in losses of affiliates

—

—

1,525

Provision for deferred income taxes

24,686

8,710

(43,199

)

Payment of tax on gain from the sale of WebMD

—

(31,200

)

—

Tax benefit from disqualifying dispositions of stock options

1,876

1,561

2,328

Changes in operating assets and liabilities (net of businesses acquired):

Receivables, net

20,723

(50,364

)

(26,389

)

Inventory

(3,393

)

(2,762

)

(3,252

)

Prepaid expenses and other

(201

)

(13,302

)

(8,216

)

Accounts payable

(30,663

)

20,648

(4,572

)

Accrued income taxes

(8,556

)

1,791

10,207

Deferred revenue

22,561

(12,203

)

(2,164

)

Other current liabilities

(5,038

)

2,570

13,745

Total adjustments

91,359

(11,116

)

107,204

Net cash provided by operating activities

134,150

36,906

64,838

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Purchase of capital equipment

(26,831

)

(33,235

)

(17,654

)

Purchase of land, buildings, and improvements

(56,752

)

(26,464

)

(8,068

)

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash received

(6,380

)

(26,016

)

(4,045

)

Investments in affiliates

—

—

(1,664

)

Proceeds from sale of available for sale securities

—

95,134

1,572

Issuance of notes receivable

—

(156

)

(205

)

Repayment of notes receivable




Capitalized software development costs

(58,736

)

(49,984

)

(37,828

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(148,048

)

(40,270

)

(67,185

)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt


70,102

18,088

Repayment of long-term debt

(13,238

)

(41,032

)

(1,634

)

Proceeds from third party warrants

2,052

5,800

—

Purchase of treasury shares

(5,930

)

—

Proceeds from exercise of options

6,703

3,196

4,067

Associate stock purchase plan discounts

(604

)

(609

)

(179

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(10,697

)

37,457

20,342

Foreign currency translation adjustment

3,740


(1,352

)

Increase in cash from the consolidation of a variable interest entity


—

—

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(20,704

)

35,007

16,643

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

142,543

107,536

90,893

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

121,839

142,543

107,536

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information

Cash paid during the year for:

Interest

$

7,984

6,937

7,341

Income taxes, net of refund

10,426

49,484

9,535

Noncash investing and financing activities

Issuance of common stock for acquisition of business

—

—

17,671

Acquisition of equipment through capital leases

9,811

—

—

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a)

Principles of Consolidation

- The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of Cerner Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries
(the Company). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have
been eliminated in consolidation.

(b)

Nature of Operations

- The Company designs, develops, markets, installs,
hosts and supports software information technology and content solutions for
healthcare organizations and consumers. The Company also implements these
solutions as individual, combined or enterprise-wide systems.

(c)

Revenue Recognition

- Revenues are derived primarily from the sale of
clinical, financial and administrative information systems and solutions. The
components of the system sales revenues are the licensing of computer software,
installation, subscription content and the sale of computer hardware and
sublicensed software. The components of support, maintenance and service
revenues are software support and hardware maintenance, remote hosting and
outsourcing, training, consulting and implementation services.

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of Statement
of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP
No. 98-4, SOP 98-9 and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletin’s (SAB) 101
“Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements.” and SAB No. 104 “Revenue
Recognition” and Emerging Issues Task Force 00-21 “Accounting for Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” (“EITF 00-21”). SOP No 97-2, as
amended, generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving
multiple-elements to be allocated to each element based on the relative fair
values of those elements. Revenue from multiple-element software arrangements
is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, revenue is
recognized in a multiple-element arrangement when Company-specific objective
evidence of fair value exists for all of the undelivered elements in the
arrangement (i.e. professional services, software support, hardware
maintenance, hardware and sublicensed software), but does not exist for one or
more of the delivered elements in the arrangement (i.e. software solutions).
The Company allocates revenue to each element in a multiple-element arrangement
based on the element’s respective fair value, with the fair value determined by
the price charged when that element is sold separately. Specifically, the
Company determines the fair value of the software support and maintenance
portion of the arrangement based on the renewal price of the software support
and maintenance charged to clients; professional services portion of the
arrangement, other than installation services, based on hourly rates which the
Company charges for these services when sold apart from a software license;
and, the hardware and sublicensed software, based on the prices for these
elements when they are sold separately from the software. If evidence of the
fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of a license
agreement, the entire amount of revenue under the arrangement is deferred until
these elements have been delivered or objective evidence can be established.

Inherent in the revenue recognition process are significant management
estimates and judgments, which influence the timing and the amount of revenue
recognition. The Company provides several models for the procurement of its
clinical, financial and administrative information systems. The predominant
method is a perpetual software license agreement, project-related installation
services, implementation and consulting services, computer hardware and
sublicensed software and software support. For those arrangements involving
the use of services, the Company uses the percentage of completion method of
accounting, following the guidance in the AICPA Statement of Position No. 81-1
(SOP 81-1),

Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain
Production-Type Contracts,

as prescribed by 97-2.

.

The Company provides installation services, which include project-scoping
services, conducting pre-installation audits and creating initial environments.
Because installation services are deemed to be essential to the functionality
of the software, software license and installation



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

services fees are recognized over the software installation period using output
measures which reflect direct labor hours incurred, beginning at software
delivery and culminating at completion of installation, typically a
three-to-nine month process.

The Company also provides implementation and consulting services, which include
consulting activities that fall outside of the scope of the standard
installation services. These services vary depending on the scope and
complexity requested by the client. Examples of such services may include
additional database consulting, system configuration, project management,
testing assistance, network consulting and post conversion review services.
Implementation and consulting services generally are not deemed to be essential
to the functionality of the software, and thus do not impact the timing of the
software license recognition, unless software license fees are tied to
implementation milestones. In those instances, the portion of the software
license fee tied to implementation milestones is deferred until the related
milestone is accomplished and related fees become billable and non-forfeitable.
Implementation fees are recognized over the service period, which may extend
from nine months to three years.

Remote hosting and outsourcing services are marketed under long-term
arrangements generally over periods of five to 10 years. Revenues from these
arrangements are recognized as the services are performed.

Software support fees are marketed under annual and multi-year arrangements and
are recognized as revenue ratably over the contracted support term. Hardware
maintenance revenues are billed and recognized monthly over the contracted
maintenance term.

Subscription and content fees are generally marketed under annual and
multi-year agreements and are recognized ratably over the contracted terms.

Hardware and sublicensed software sales are generally recognized when title
passes to the client.

The Company also offers its solutions on an application service provider
(“ASP”) or a term license basis, making available Company software
functionality on a remote processing basis from the Company’s data centers.
The data centers provide system and administrative support as well as
processing services. Revenue on software and services provided on an ASP or
term license basis is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the
contract. The Company capitalizes related direct costs consisting of
third-party costs and direct software installation and implementation costs.
These costs are amortized over the term of the arrangement.

Where the Company has contractually agreed to develop new or customized
software code for a client as a single element arrangement, the Company
utilizes percentage of completion accounting in accordance with SOP 81-1. If a
contract includes multiple elements, including one or more undelivered element,
or if the agreement includes contingent revenue (as defined in EITF 00-21), the
Company complies with the conclusions of EITF 00-21 and delays revenue
recognition until undelivered elements are delivered and revenue contingencies
expire. When revenue is deferred all direct and incremental costs associated
with the arrangement are capitalized and amortized over the contractual term
once revenue recognition commences.

Deferred revenue is comprised of deferrals for license fees, support,
maintenance and other services for which payment has been received and for
which the service has not yet been performed. Long-term deferred revenue, at
January 3, 2004, represents amounts received from license fees, maintenance and
other services to be earned or provided beginning in periods on or after
January 2, 2005.

The Company incurs out-of-pocket expenses in connection with its client service
activities, which are reimbursed by its clients. The amounts of
“out-of-pocket” expenses and equal amounts of



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

related reimbursements were $30,443,000, $28,410,000, and $18,379,000 for the
years ended January 3, 2004, December 28, 2002, and December 29, 2001,
respectively.

The Company’s arrangements with clients typically include a deposit due upon
contract signing and date-based licensed software payment terms and payments
based upon delivery for services, hardware and sublicensed software. The
Company has periodically provided long-term financing options to creditworthy
clients through third party financing institutions and has on occasion directly
provided extended payment terms from contract date. Certain of these
receivables have been assigned on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
institutions. The Company accounts for the assignment of these receivables as
“true sales” as defined in FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. Provided all
other revenue recognition criteria have been met, the Company recognizes
revenue for these arrangements under its normal revenue recognition criteria,
net of any payment discounts from financing transactions.

The terms of the Company’s software license agreements with its clients
generally provide for a limited indemnification of such intellectual property
against losses, expenses and liabilities arising from third-party claims based
on alleged infringement by the Company’s solutions of an intellectual property
right of such third party. The terms of such indemnification often limit the
scope of and remedies for such indemnification obligations and generally
include a right to replace or modify an infringing solution. To date, the
Company has not had to reimburse any of its clients for any losses related to
these indemnification provisions pertaining to third-party intellectual
property infringement claims. For several reasons, including the lack of prior
indemnification claims and the lack of a monetary liability limit for certain
infringement cases under the terms of the corresponding agreements with its
clients, the Company cannot determine the maximum amount of potential future
payments, if any, related to such indemnification provisions.

(d)

Fiscal Year

- The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to
December 31. Fiscal year 2003 consisted of 53 weeks and fiscal years 2002 and
2001 consisted of 52 weeks each. All references to years in these notes to
consolidated financial statements represent fiscal years unless otherwise
noted.

(e)

Software Development Costs

- Costs incurred internally in creating
computer software products are expensed until technological feasibility has
been established upon completion of a detailed program design. Thereafter, all
software development costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at the
lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Capitalized costs are
amortized based on current and expected future revenue for each product with
minimum annual amortization equal to the straight-line amortization over the
estimated economic life of the product. The Company is amortizing capitalized
costs over five years. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company capitalized
$58,736,000, $49,984,000 and $37,828,000, respectively, of total software
development costs of $179,999,000, $149,985,000 and $113,872,000, respectively.
Amortization expense of capitalized software development costs in 2003, 2002
and 2001, was $34,973,000, $29,619,000 and $24,142,000, respectively, and
accumulated amortization was $165,145,000, $130,172,000 and $100,553,000,
respectively.

The Company expects that major software information systems companies, large
information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators,
internet-based start-up companies and others specializing in the healthcare
industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the
healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new
product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and
requirements. As a result, the capitalized software may become less valuable
or obsolete and could be subject to impairment.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(f)

Cash Equivalents

– Cash equivalents consist of short-term marketable
securities with original maturities less than ninety days.

(g)

Investments

– The Company accounts for its investments in equity
securities, which have readily determinable fair values as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains
and losses reported, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. For realized gains and losses on available-for-sale
investments, the Company utilizes the specific identification method as the
basis to determine cost. Investments in the common stock of certain affiliates
over which the Company exerts significant influence are accounted for by the
equity method.

The Company also has certain other minority equity investments in non-publicly
traded securities. These investments are generally carried at cost as the
Company owns less than 20% of the voting equity and does not have the ability
to exercise significant influence over these companies. The carrying value of
these investments at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $680,000 and
$876,000, respectively. These investments are inherently high risk as the
market for technologies and content by these companies are usually early stage
at the time of the investment by the Company and such markets may never be
significant. The Company could lose its entire investment in certain or all of
these companies. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and
makes appropriate reductions in carrying values when necessary.

The Company reviews all equity securities for declines in fair value. If such
declines are considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the
individual security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis, and the
amount of the write-down is included in earnings.

(h)

Inventory

- Inventory consists primarily of computer hardware and
sub-licensed software held for resale and is recorded at the lower of cost
(first-in, first-out) or market.

(i)

Property and Equipment

- Property, equipment and leasehold improvements
are stated at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using
the straight-line method over periods of 5 to 39 years. Amortization of
leasehold improvements is computed using a straight-line method over the lease
terms, which range from periods of two to twelve years.

(j)

Earnings per Common Share

– Basic earnings per share (EPS) excludes
dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by
the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or
other contracts to issue stock were exercised or converted into common stock or
resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of
the Company. A reconciliation of the numerators and the denominators of the
basic and diluted per-share computations is as follows:



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(In thousands, except per share data)




Per-

Earnings

Shares

Per-Share

Earnings

Shares

Per-Share

Earnings

Shares

Share

(Numerator)

(Denominator)

Amount

(Numerator)

(Denominator)

Amount

(Numerator)

(Denominator)

Amount

Earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle

Basic earnings (loss) per share

Income available to
common stockholders

$

42,791

35,355

$

1.21

$

48,808

35,458

$

1.38

$

(42,366

)

34,907

$

(1.21

)

Effect of dilutive securities

Stock options

—

1,001

—

1,592

—

—

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

Income available to common
stockholders including
assumed conversions

$

42,791

36,356

$

1.18

$

48,808

37,050

$

1.32

$

(42,366

)

34,907

$

(1.21

)

Net earnings (loss) per share

Basic earnings (loss) per share

Income available to
common stockholders

$

42,791

35,355

$

1.21

$

48,022

35,458

$

1.36

$

(42,366

)

34,907

$

(1.21

)

Effect of dilutive securities

Stock options

—

1,001

—

1,592

—

—

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

Income available to common
stockholders including
assumed conversions

$

42,791

36,356

$

1.18

$

48,022

37,050

$

1.30

$

(42,366

)

34,907

$

(1.21

)

Options to purchase 3,054,000, 2,390,000 and 299,000 shares of common stock at
per share prices ranging from $32.50 to 574.82, $43.13 to $574.82 and $48.19 to
$574.82, were outstanding at the end of 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, but
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
options’ exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common
shares for the period. Additionally, all options were excluded from the 2001
diluted earnings per share computations as the effect of their inclusion would
have been anti-dilutive on the loss per share calculation.

(k)

Foreign Currency

- Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are
translated into dollars at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for the year. The net
exchange differences resulting from these translations are reported in
accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses resulting from
foreign currency transactions are included in the consolidated statements of
earnings. The net gain (loss) resulting from foreign currency transactions was
$1,376,000, ($1,955,000) and $23,813 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(l)

Income Taxes

- Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

(m)

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets -

On December 30, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets” (“SFAS 144”), which supersedes certain provisions of APB Opinion No. 30
“Reporting the Results of Operations – Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring
Events and Transactions” and supercedes SFAS No. 121 “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of.”
There was



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

not a cumulative transition adjustment upon adoption. In accordance with SFAS
144, the Company evaluates long-lived assets, including intangible assets other
than goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changing in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable based on
expected undiscounted cash flows attributable to that asset. The amount of any
impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the
fair value of the impaired asset.

(n)

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets –

Effective December 30, 2001, the
Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” As a result, goodwill
and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are
evaluated for impairment annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator.
All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an
impairment test based on fair value. The Company assessed its goodwill for
impairment in the second quarter of its fiscal year. The Company completed its
initial transitional assessment of the Company’s goodwill values in the second
quarter of 2002. As a result of this review, the Company determined that
goodwill arising from the acquisition of Mitch Cooper and Associates was
impaired due to declining demand and margins in this business. Mitch Cooper
and Associates was a supply chain re-engineering consulting practice. The
impairment charge to reflect this goodwill at fair value was $786,000, net of
tax, and is reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle as of the beginning of 2002. There was no impairment of goodwill in
2003. The Company used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair
value of the reporting units for all periods tested. The Company’s intangible
assets, other than goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives, are all
subject to amortization and are summarized as follows:

(In thousands)

January 3, 2004

December 28, 2002

Weighted Average

Amortization

Gross

Gross

Period

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Accumulated

(Yrs)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Purchased software

5.0

$

36,236

14,683

28,938

8,649

Customer lists

7.0

3,700

1,711

3,700

1,183

Patents

14.0





Non-compete agreements

7.0





Total

5.32

$

40,538

16,502

33,065

9,910

Amortization expense was $6,592,000, $4,482,000 and $2,191,000 for the years
ended 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Estimated aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five years is as
follows:

For year ended:


$

7,304


6,754


5,489


3,134



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the twelve months ended
January 3, 2004 are as follows:

Balance as of December 28, 2003

$

45,938

Goodwill acquired during 2003

3,080

Foreign currency translation adjustment during 2003

2,555

Balance as of January 3, 2004

$

51,573



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The following is a reconciliation of reported net earnings (loss) to adjusted
net earnings (loss) to exclude the effect of amortization expense in the year
ended 2001 for goodwill that is no longer being amortized.

(In thousands, except per share data)




Reported net earnings (loss)

$

42,791

48,022

(42,366

)

Add back: Goodwill amortization

—

—

1,758

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

42,791

48,022

(40,608

)

Basic earnings per share:

Reported net earnings (loss)

$

1.21

1.36

(1.21

)

Add back: Goodwill amortization

—

—

.05

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

1.21

1.36

(1.16

)

Diluted earnings per share:

Reported net earnings (loss)

$

1.18

1.30

(1.21

)

Add back: Goodwill amortization

—

—

.05

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

1.18

1.30

(1.16

)

(o)

Use of Estimates

- The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

(p)

Concentrations

– Substantially all of the Company’s cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments, are held at three major U.S. financial
institutions. The majority of the Company’s cash equivalents consist of U.S.
Government Federal Agency Securities, short-term marketable securities, and
overnight repurchase agreements. Deposits held with banks may exceed the
amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally these deposits may be
redeemed upon demand and, therefore, bear minimal risk.

Substantially all of the Company’s clients are integrated delivery networks,
hospitals, and other healthcare related organizations. If significant adverse
macro-economic factors were to impact these organizations it could materially
adversely affect the Company. The Company’s access to certain software and
hardware components is dependent upon single and sole source suppliers. The
inability of any supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could
affect future results.

The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients and generally
does not require collateral from its clients. The Company maintains an
allowance for potential losses on a specific identification basis and based on
historical experience and management’s judgments. The Company’s allowance for
doubtful accounts as of January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $12,056,000
and $9,502,000, respectively.

(q)

Accounting for Stock Options -

The Company applies the
intrinsic-value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
related interpretations including FASB Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for
Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of APB
Opinion No. 25,” issued in March 2000, to account for its fixed–plan stock
options. Under this



Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

method, compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the
current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” established accounting and disclosure requirements
using a fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, the Company has elected to
continue to apply the intrinsic-value-based method of accounting described
above, and has adopted only the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. The
following is a reconciliation of reported net earnings (loss) to adjusted net
earnings (loss) had the Company recorded compensation expense based on the fair
value at the grant date for its stock options under SFAS 123 for the years
ended 2003, 2002 and 2001.

(In thousands, except per share data)




Reported net earnings (loss)

$

42,791

48,022

(42,366

)

Less: stock-based compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards, net of tax

(13,392

)

(16,640

)

(11,172

)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

29,399

31,382

(53,538

)

Basic earnings per share:

Reported net earnings (loss)

$

1.21

1.36

(1.21

)

Less: stock-based compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards, net of tax

(.38

)

(.47

)

(.32

)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

.83

.89

(1.53

)

Diluted earnings per share:

Reported net earnings (loss)

$

1.18

1.30

(1.21

)

Less: stock-based compensation expense determined
under fair-value-based method for all awards

(.37

)

(.45

)

(.32

)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)

.81

.85

(1.53

)

Pro forma net earnings reflect only options granted since January 1, 1995.
Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation expense for stock
options under FAS 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net earnings amounts
presented above, because compensation cost is reflected over the options’
vesting period of ten years for these options. Compensation expense for
options granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.

(r)

Reclassifications –

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year consolidated financial statement presentation.

(s)

Accounting for Variable Interest Entities

- On September 27, 2003, the
Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46
(“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an Interpretation of
APB No. 51.” The Interpretation provides guidance on the identification of
entities for which control is achieved through means other than through voting
rights (“variable interest entities’” or “VIEs”) and how to determine when and
which business enterprises should consolidate the VIE (the “primary
beneficiary”). In addition, FIN 46 requires that both the primary beneficiary
and all other enterprises with a significant variable interest in a VIE make
additional disclosures.

For the twelve-month period ended January 3, 2004, the Company consolidated the
operations of Cerner Arabia Ltd (“Cerner Arabia”). Cerner Arabia is a software
company located in Riyadh. Revenues are derived primarily from the sale of
clinical, financial and administrative information systems and solutions. The
consolidation of Cerner Arabia resulted in an increase to revenues of $580,000
and net earnings of $10,000 for the twelve-month period ended January 3, 2004.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Business Acquisitions

During the three years ended January 3, 2004, the Company completed five
acquisitions, which were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Pro forma results of operations have not been presented for any of the
acquisitions because the effects of these acquisitions were not material to the
Company on either an individual or an aggregate basis. The results of
operations of each acquisition are included in the Company’s consolidated
statement of operations from the date of each acquisition.

Effective December 30, 2001, the Company adopted the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” As a result, goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives are no longer amortized but are evaluated for impairment
annually or whenever there is an impairment indicator. All goodwill is
assigned to a reporting unit, where it is subject to an impairment test based
on fair value. Amounts allocated to intangibles are amortized on a
straight-line basis over five to seven years. Amounts allocated to software
are amortized based on current and expected future revenues for each product
with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight-line amortization over
the estimated economic life of the product.

A summary of the Company’s significant purchase acquisitions for the three
years ended January 3, 2004, is included in the following table (in millions,
except share amounts):

Entity Name, Description of Business

Developed

Form of

Acquired, and Reason Business Acquired

Date

Consideration

Goodwill

Technology

Consideration

Fiscal 2003 Acquisition

BeyondNow Technologies (a)

9/03

$

7.5

$

3.0

$

3.2

$7.5 cash

Home care technologies

Integrate technology into

Cerner Millennium

Fiscal 2002 Acquisitions

Image Devices GmbH (a)

10/02

$

15.7

$

11.9

$

4.4

$14.3 cash

$1.4 note

payable

Picture archiving and communication system
software

Supplier of the image archive component for

Cerner ProVision TM

PACS

Zynx Health Incorporated (a) (b)

4/02

$

15.0

$

10.4

$

3.3

$15.0 cash

$8.5 software

credits

Solutions and services that deliver the
latest scientific knowledge and best
practices

Integrate technology into

Cerner Millennium

Fiscal 2001 Acquisitions

Dynamic
Healthcare Technologies

Clinical and diagnostic workflow
for pathology, laboratory and radiology

Intergrate technology into

Cerner Millennium

12/01

$

20.0

$

9.2

$

7.5

$2.3 cash

$17.7

362,000

shares of

common stock

issued

APACHE Medical Systems (c)

7/01

$

3.6

$

5.0

$

0.2

$3.6 cash

Clinical decision support /outcomes

management systems

Integrate knowledge into

Cerner Millennium



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(a) The assets and liabilities of the acquired companies at the date of
acquisition are as follows:

BeyondNow

Zynx Health

Technologies

Image Devices GmbH

Incorporated

Current Assets

1,977,000

1,603,000

2,656,000

Total Assets

8,170,000

18,007,000

16,949,000

Current Liabilities

714,000

4,205,000

1,420,000

Total Liabilities

714,000

4,205,000

1,669,000

(b) The Company will not recognize revenues related to the utilization of the
$8.5 million in software credits as the Company considered the exchange of
software credits for Zynx content as an exchange of similar productive assets,
which will be accounted for at carrying value. In the event the software
credits are not utilized over the next five years, the Company will make
additional cash payments of up to $7.5 million depending on the level of the
credits used. These additional payments, if made, will result in additional
goodwill. As of January 3, 2004, no cash payments had been made.

(c) The following goodwill amounts are deductible for tax purposes:

APACHE Medical Systems

$

5,000,000


Receivables

Receivables consist of accounts receivable and contracts receivable. Accounts
receivable represent recorded revenues that have been billed. Contracts
receivable represent recorded revenues that are billable by the Company at
future dates under the terms of a contract with a client. Billings and other
consideration received on contracts in excess of related revenues recognized
under the percentage-of-completion method are recorded as deferred revenue. A
summary of receivables is as follows:

(In thousands)



Accounts receivable, net of allowance

$

162,234

188,614

Contracts receivable

94,340

84,054

Total receivables

$

256,574

272,668

Substantially all receivables are derived from sales and related support and
maintenance of the Company’s clinical, administrative and financial information
systems and solutions to healthcare providers located throughout the United
States and in certain foreign countries. Included in receivables at the end of
2003 and 2002 are amounts due from healthcare providers located in foreign
countries of $29,072,000 and $23,589,000, respectively. Consolidated revenues
include foreign sales of $54,191,000, $36,634,000 and $22,794,000 during 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Consolidated long-lived assets at the end of 2003
and 2002 include foreign long-lived assets of $4,254,000 and $1,120,000,
respectively. Revenues and long-lived assets from any one foreign country are
not material.

The Company provides an allowance for estimated uncollectible accounts based
upon a specific identification basis and based on historical experience and
management’s judgment. At the end of 2003 and 2002 the allowance for estimated
uncollectible accounts was $12,056,000 and $9,502,000 respectively.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Property and Equipment

A summary of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements stated at cost,
less accumulated depreciation and amortization, is as follows:

(In thousands)



Furniture and fixtures

$

36,520

30,197

Computer and communications equipment

150,600

120,939

Marketing equipment

2,649

2,649

Shop equipment

2,902

2,902

Leasehold improvements

47,931

41,467

Capital lease equipment

13,087

2,208

Land, buildings, and improvements

104,374

59,444

358,063

259,806

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

153,110

125,523

Total property and equipment, net

$

204,953

134,283


Investments

Investments consist of the following:

(In thousands)



Investments in available-for-sale equity securities, at cost

$



Plus unrealized holding gain (loss)

—

(62

)

Investment in available-for-sale equity securities, at fair value



Investments in non-marketable equity securities, at cost



Total investments, net

$



On February 13, 2000 CareInsite entered into an agreement to merge with WebMD.
The merger of CareInsite and WebMD (“Merger”) closed on September 12, 2000.
Prior to the merger, the carrying value of the CareInsite stock was $6.22 per
share, and the market price of WebMD on September 12, 2000 was $15.00 per
share. Upon the exchange of CareInsite stock for WebMD stock, the Company
recorded an investment gain of $120,362,000, net of $68,292,000 of tax, as a
result of the exchange.

On December 12, 2000, the Company sold 4,273,509 shares of WebMD for
$25,641,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded an investment loss of
$24,539,000, net of $13,923,000 of tax, as a result of the sale.

On June 18, 2001 the Company reached an agreement with WebMD regarding certain
performance metrics related to specified levels of physician usage arising out
of the original license transaction between the Company and CareInsite, which
had been merged into WebMD. Under the agreement, the Company received
2,000,000 shares of WebMD stock, valued at $11,580,000, in exchange for
$432,000 in cash and the cancellation of various obligations due to the Company
by WebMD. As a result of this agreement, the Company recognized a gain of
$4,836,000, net of $2,744,000 in tax, in gain on software license settlement in
the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The Company’s policy is
to review declines in fair value of its marketable equity securities for
declines that may be other than temporary. As a result of this policy, during
the second quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a write-down of its investment
in WebMD from $15.00 per share to $5.79 per share. Accordingly, the Company
recognized a charge to earnings of $81,419,000, net of $46,197,000 in tax.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

In the second quarter of 2002, the Company sold its remaining 14,820,527 shares
of WebMD for $90,119,000. Accordingly, the Company recorded an investment gain
of $2,736,000, net of $1,572,000 in tax, as a result of the sale. Since the
shares sold had a lower income tax basis, the sale resulted in the transfer of
approximately $29,638,000 of deferred tax liabilities to income taxes payable
in the second quarter of 2002. In the third quarter of 2002, the Company made
a cash payment of tax in the amount of $31,200,000 related to the investment
gain.

In December 2002, the Company exercised 1,048,783 warrants of WebMD with an
exercise price of $3.08 and a cost basis and carrying value of $4,146,000. The
warrants were scheduled to expire on January 26, 2003. In December 2002, the
Company sold 1,048,783 shares of WebMD for $8,242,000. Accordingly, the
Company recorded an investment gain of $527,000, net of $342,000 in tax, as a
result of the exercise of the warrants and the sale of the shares.

The Company has certain other minority equity investments in non-publicly
traded securities. These investments are generally carried at cost as the
Company owns less than 20% of the voting equity and does not have the ability
to exercise significant influence over these companies. The balance of these
investments at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $680,000 and $876,000,
respectively. These investments are inherently high risk as the market for
technologies and content by these companies are usually early stage at the time
of the investment by the Company and such markets may never be significant.
The Company could lose its entire investment in certain or all of these
companies. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and makes
appropriate reductions in carrying values when necessary. Based on events
occurring in the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a charge of
$6,281,000, net of tax of $3,623,000, for the impairment of various investments
of non-publicly traded securities. The charge is primarily related to a
$3,464,000, net of tax, write down of the Company’s investment in Protocare,
Inc, a non-publicly traded company.


Indebtedness

In December 2002, the Company completed a $60,000,000 private placement of debt
pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $21,000,000
principal amount at 5.57%, are payable in three equal installments beginning in
December 2006. The Series B Senior notes, with a $39,000,000 principal amount
at 6.42%, are payable in 4 equal annual installments beginning December 2009.
The proceeds were used to repay the outstanding amount under the Company’s
credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Note Agreement
contains certain net worth and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides
certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to borrow, incur liens, sell
assets and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at
January 3, 2004.

In June 2002, the Company expanded its credit facility by entering into an
unsecured credit agreement with a group of banks led by US Bank. This new
agreement provides for a current revolving line of credit for working capital
purposes. The current revolving line of credit is unsecured and requires
monthly payments of interest only. Interest is payable at the Company’s option
at a rate based on prime (4% at January 3, 2004) or LIBOR (1.12% at January 3,
2004) plus 2%. The interest rate may be reduced by up to 1% if certain net
worth ratios are maintained. At January 3, 2004, the Company had no
outstanding borrowings under this agreement and had $90,000,000 available for
working capital purposes. The agreement contains certain net worth, current
ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants and provides certain restrictions on
the Company’s ability to borrow, incur liens, sell assets, and pay dividends.
A commitment fee of 1/2% or 3/10% is payable quarterly based on the usage of
the revolving line of credit. The revolving line of credit matures on May 31,
2005.

In April 1999, the Company completed a $100,000,000 private placement of debt
pursuant to a Note Agreement. The Series A Senior Notes, with a $60,000,000
principal amount at 7.14%, are payable in five equal annual installments
beginning in April 2002. The Series B Senior Notes, with a $40,000,000
principal amount at 7.66%, are payable in six equal annual installments



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

beginning April 2004. The proceeds were used to retire the Company’s existing
$30,000,000 of debt, and the remaining funds will be used for capital
improvements and to strengthen the Company’s cash position. The note agreement
contains certain net worth, current ratio, and fixed charge coverage covenants
and provides certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to borrow, incur
liens, sell assets, and pay dividends. The Company was in compliance with all
covenants at January 3, 2004.

The Company also has capital lease obligations amounting to $9,732,000, payable
over the next five years.

The aggregate maturities for the Company’s long-term debt, including capital
lease obligations, is as follows (in thousands):


$

21,162


21,358


28,246


15,004


14,295

2009 and thereafter

45,667

$

145,732

The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term, fixed-rate debt using
discounted cash flow analysis based on the Company’s current borrowing rates
for debt with similar maturities. The fair value of the Company’s long-term
debt was approximately $147,072,000 and $149,023,000 at January 3, 2004 and
December 28, 2002, respectively.


Interest Income and Expense

A summary of interest income and expense is as follows:

(In thousands)




Interest income

$

1,219

1,080

2,896

Interest expense

(8,236

)

(6,635

)

(7,321

)

Interest expense, net

$

(7,017

)

(5,555

)

(4,425

)


Stock Options, Warrants and Equity

At the end of 2003 and 2002, the Company had 1,000,000 shares of authorized but
unissued preferred stock, $.01 par value.

At January 3, 2004, the Company had four fixed stock option plans. Under Stock
Option Plan C, the Company is authorized to grant to associates options to
purchase up to 645,000 shares of common stock through May 18, 2003. The
options are exercisable at the fair market value on the date of grant for a
period determined by the Board of Directors (not more than ten years from the
date granted). The options contain restrictions as to transferability and
exercisability after termination of employment. The Company has committed not
to issue any more stock options under Stock Option Plan C.

Initially, under Stock Option Plan D, the Company was authorized to grant to
associates, directors, consultants or advisors to the Company options to
purchase up to 50,000 shares of common stock through January 1, 2005.
Additional shares which were approved by the Company’s shareholders on May 17,
1994, May 16, 1995 and May 22, 1998, increasing the total authorized to grant
to 4,600,000 shares. The options are exercisable at a price (not less than
fair market value on the date of grant) and during a period determined by the
Stock Option



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Committee. Options under this plan currently vest over periods of up to ten
years and are exercisable for periods of up to 25 years.

Initially, under Stock Option Plan E, the Company was authorized to grant to
associates (other than officers subject to the provisions of Section 16(a) of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934), consultants, or advisors to the
Company options to purchase up to 2,000,000 shares of common stock through
January 1, 2005. Additional shares of 1,100,000 and 1,000,000 were approved by
the Company’s Board of Directors on December 8, 2000 and March 9, 2001,
respectively, increasing the total authorized to grant to 4,100,000 shares. The
options are exercisable at a price (not less than fair market value on the date
of grant) and during a period determined by the Stock Option Committee.
Options under this plan currently vest over periods of up to ten years and are
exercisable for periods of up to 25 years.

Under the 2001 Long-Term Incentive Plan F, the Company is authorized to grant
to associates, directors and consultants 2,000,000 shares of common stock
awards. Awards under this plan may consist of stock options, restricted stock
and performance shares, as well as other awards such as stock appreciation
rights, phantom stock and performance unit awards which may be payable in the
form of common stock or cash. However, not more than 500,000 of such shares
will be available to granting any types of grants other than options or stock
appreciation rights.

The Company has also granted 854,085 other non-qualified stock options under
separate agreements to employees and certain third parties. These options are
exercisable at a price equal to or greater than the fair market value on the
date of grant. These options vest over periods of up to six years and are
exercisable for periods of up to ten years. The Company recognized expenses
related to the non-qualified stock options of $34,000, $90,000 and $215,000 for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

A combined summary of the status of the Company’s five fixed stock option plans
and other stock options at the end of 2003, 2002, and 2001, and changes during
these years ended is presented below:




Weighted-

Weighted-

Weighted-

Number

average

Number

average

Number

average

Of

exercise

Of

exercise

of

exercise

Fixed options

Shares

price

Shares

price

shares

price

Outstanding at beginning of year

8,080,864

$

31.28

7,244,224

$

28.79

6,300,265

$

22.50

Granted

951,917

26.43

1,501,729

43.50

1,483,998

47.37

Exercised

(324,622

)

20.70

(167,092

)

19.40

(235,942

)

17.46

Forfeited

(564,545

)

41.16

(497,997

)

36.17

(304,097

)

26.04

Outstanding at end of year

8,143,614

$

30.37

8,080,864

$

31.28

7,244,224

$

28.79

Options exercisable at year-end

3,239,586

$

26.89

2,512,357

$

24.94

1,825,150

$

24.29

The following table summarizes information about fixed and other stock options
outstanding at January 3, 2004.

Options outstanding

Options exercisable

Range of

Number

Weighted-average

Number

Exercise

outstanding

remaining

Weighted-average

exercisable

Weighted-average

Prices

at 1/3/04

contractual life

exercise price

at 1/3/04

exercise price

$       9.59-20.50

2,037,896

13.14

years

$

15.91

1,177,399

$

16.12

20.56-27.00

2,145,162

8.43

23.41

816,440

23.66

27.25-43.29

2,181,599

9.11

35.66

943,047

34.48

43.31-273.72

1,778,957

6.86

48.84

302,70

53.77

9.59-273.72

8,143,614

9.45

30.37

3,239,586

26.89



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during 2003,
2002 and 2001 was $15.34, $25.80 and $25.93, respectively, on the date of grant
using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:




Expected years until exercise

4.7

4.7

4.7

Risk-free interest rate

3.8

%

3.4

%

4.5

%

Expected stock volatility

71.2

%

68.7

%

71.3

%

Expected dividend yield


%


%


%


Associate Stock Purchase Plan

The Company established an Associate Stock Purchase Plan (ASPP) in 2001, which
qualifies under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. All full-time
associates are eligible to participate. Participants may elect to make
contributions from 1% to 20% of compensation to the ASPP, subject to annual
limitations determined by the Internal Revenue Service. Participants may
purchase Company Common Stock at a 15% discount on the last day of the purchase
period. Under APB No. 25 the ASPP qualifies as a non-compensatory plan and no
compensation expense has been recognized.


Foundations Retirement Plan

The Cerner Corporation Foundations Retirement Plan (the Plan) is established
under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. All full-time associates
are eligible to participate. Participants may elect to make pretax
contributions from 1% to 80% of compensation to the Plan, subject to annual
limitations determined by the Internal Revenue Service. Participants may
direct contributions into mutual funds, a money market fund, or a Company stock
fund. The Company makes matching contributions to the Plan, on behalf of
participants, in an amount equal to 33% of the first 6% of the participant’s
contribution. The Company’s expense for the plan amounted to $5,325,000,
$4,347,000 and $3,269,000 for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Company added a discretionary match to the Plan in 2000. Contributions are
based on attainment of established earnings per share goals for the year. Only
participants in the Plan are eligible to receive the discretionary match
contribution. For the years ended 2002 and 2001, the Company expensed
$5,345,000 and $3,688,000 for discretionary distributions, respectively. There
were no discretionary distributions for 2003.


Income Taxes

Income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001, consists
of the following:

(In thousands)




Current:

Federal

$

6,439

49,384

20,129

State

1,790

5,699

2,862

Foreign

(4,484

)

(1,262

)

(740

)

Total current

3,745

53,821

22,251

Deferred:

Federal

22,409

(21,676

)

(41,307

)

State

2,806

(1,245

)

(1,451

)

Foreign

(529

)


(441

)

Total deferred

24,686

(22,490

)

(43,199

)

Total income tax expense (benefit)

$

28,431

31,331

(20,948

)



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Income tax benefit attributable to the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle for goodwill was $486,000 in 2002. Income tax expense
(benefit) allocated to stockholders’ equity for unrealized holding gains
(losses) on available-for-sale equity securities was $14,000, ($6,824,000) and
$39,846,000 for the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax
basis of assets and liabilities that give rise to significant portions of
deferred income taxes at the end of 2003 and 2002 relate to the following:

(In thousands)



Deferred Tax Assets

Accrued expenses

$

9,920

8,854

Separate return net operating losses

10,442

14,236

Other

5,024

6,729

Total deferred tax assets

25,386

29,819

Deferred Tax Liabilities

Software development costs

(55,291

)

(47,594

)

Contract and service revenues and costs

(25,096

)

(21,915

)

Depreciation and amortization

(14,279

)

(8,497

)

Other

(5,806

)

(2,214

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(100,472

)

(80,220

)

Net deferred tax liability

$

(75,086

)

(50,401

)

Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future
taxable income over the periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible,
as well as the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, management
believes it is more likely than not the Company will realize the benefit of
these deductible differences. At January 3, 2004, the Company has net
operating loss carryforwards subject to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue
Code for Federal income tax purposes of $27.3 million which are available to
offset future Federal taxable income, if any, through 2014.

The effective income tax rates for 2003, 2002, and 2001 were 40%, 39%, and 33%,
respectively. These effective rates differ from the federal statutory rate of
35% as follows:

(In thousands)




Tax expense (benefit) at statutory rates

$

24,928

27,774

(22,160

)

State income tax, net of federal benefit

2,315

2,579


Goodwill




Other, net




Total income tax expense (benefit)

$

28,431

31,331

(20,948

)

Income taxes payable are reduced by the tax benefit resulting from
disqualifying dispositions of stock acquired under the Company’s stock option
plans. The 2003, 2002, and 2001 benefits of $1,876,000, $1,561,000, and
$2,328,000, respectively, are treated as increases to additional paid-in
capital.


Related Party Transactions

The Company has made loans, to the Company’s senior management under the terms
of the Executive Stock Purchase Program (“Program”). The purpose of the
Program is to advance the interests of the Company, the Company’s senior
management, and the Company’s shareholders by offering the Company’s senior
management an incentive to purchase shares of the Company’s



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

stock on the open market. Pursuant to the Program, the Company provided
Program loans to executives to help finance up to 50% of the total purchase
price of the stock purchased. All Program loans have a term of five (5) years,
at an interest rate of 5.5%. Principal and interest is not due until the end
of the five-year loan term, unless the executive terminates employment.
Executives may also elect to pay interest annually. If interest is not paid
annually, it will compound annually. All Program loans are secured by the
purchased shares and any pledged shares. The balance of these loans, including
accrued interest, at January 3, 2004 and December 28, 2002 was $1,710,000 and
$2,293,000, respectively. Loans to the Company’s senior executives are no
longer permitted under this program.

The Company leases an airplane from a company owned by Mr. Neal L. Patterson
and Mr. Clifford W. Illig. The airplane is leased on a per mile basis with no
minimum usage guarantee. The lease rate is believed to approximate fair market
value for this type of aircraft. During 2003 and 2002, respectively, the
Company paid an aggregate of $839,055 and $543,000 for the rental of the
airplane. The airplane is used principally by Mr. Patterson, Mr. Black and Mr.
Devanny to make client visits.

On July 1, 2001, the Company completed its purchase of certain assets and
certain liabilities for cash of APACHE Medical Systems, Inc., a Delaware
corporation (“APACHE”), as further described in note 2, Business Acquisitions.
One of the Company’s directors, Gerald E. Bisbee, Jr., Ph.D., was at the time
Chairman of the Board and a shareholder of APACHE.


Commitments

The Company leases space to unrelated parties in its North Kansas City
headquarters complex under noncancelable operating leases. Included in other
revenues is rental income of $145,000, $87,000 and $183,000 in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

The Company is committed under operating leases for office space through May
2013. Rent expense for office and warehouse space for the Company’s regional
and global offices for 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $5,345,000, $5,175,000 and
$2,718,000, respectively. Aggregate minimum future payments (in thousands)
under these noncancelable operating leases are as follows:

Aggregate

Minimum

future

Years

payments


$

11,320


6,121


4,184


3,085


2,659

2009 and thereafter

6,872


Segment Reporting

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 , “Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information” establishes annual and
interim reporting standards for operating segments of a company. It also
requires entity-wide disclosures about the products and services an entity
provides, the material countries in which it holds assets and reports revenues,
and its major clients. In 2003, the Company organized geographically. The
Company’s six geographic business segments are: Great Lakes, Mid-America, North
Atlantic, Southeast, West and Global. The Company has not presented comparable
information for prior periods as the necessary information is not available and
the cost to develop it would be excessive.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Revenues are derived primarily from the sale of clinical, financial and
administrative information systems and solutions. The cost of revenues
includes the cost of third party consulting services, computer hardware and
sublicensed software purchased from computer and software manufacturers for
delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and
sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Operating
expenses incurred by the geographic business segments consist of sales and
client service expenses including salaries of sales and client service
personnel, communications expenses and unreimbursed travel expenses.
Performance of the segments is assessed at the operating earnings level and,
therefore, the segment operations have been presented as such. “Other”
includes revenues not generated by the operating segments and expenses such as
software development, marketing, general and administrative and Depreciation
that have not been allocated to the operating segments. The Company does not
track assets by geographical business segment.

Accounting policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those
used on a consolidated basis. The following table presents a summary of the
operating information for the year ended January 3, 2004:

Operating Segments

Great

Mid-

North

South-


Lakes

America

Atlantic

east

West

Global

Other

Total

Revenues

$

153,949

$

160,633

$

149,585

$

145,312

$

161,840

$

54,191

$

14,077

$

839,587

Cost of revenues

36,910

35,447

37,520

40,784

28,321

13,450

1,858

194,290

Operating expenses

24,897

24,815

26,788

29,454

28,223

35,814

397,209

567,200

Total costs and expenses

61,807

60,262

64,308

70,238

56,544

49,264

399,067

761,490

Operating earnings

$

92,142

$

100,371

$

85,277

$

75,074

$

105,296

$

4,927

$

(384,990

)

$

78,097



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Quarterly Results (unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial data for 2003 and 2002 is set forth below:

Earnings

before income taxes

and cumulative

Basic

Diluted

effect of a change in

Net

earnings

earnings

(In thousands, except per share data)

Revenues

accounting principle

earnings

per share

per share

2003 quarterly results:

March 29

$

198,191

9,418

5,593

.16

.15

June 29

207,695

14,871

8,943

.25

.25

September 27

206,292

20,046

12,047

.34

.33

January 3

227,409

26,887

16,208

.46

.44

Total

$

839,587

71,222

42,791

2002 quarterly results:

March 30

$

181,422

17,171

10,404

.29

.28

June 29 (1)

186,824

23,828

14,692

.41

.39

September 28

196,989

22,716

13,768

.39

.37

December 28 (2) (3)

215,027

16,910

9,158

.28

.27

Total

$

780,262

80,625

48,022

(1)

Includes a gain on the sale of shares of WebMD common stock. The
impact of this gain is a $2.9 million (net of tax) increase in net
earnings and increase to diluted earnings per share of $.08 for the
second quarter and for 2002.

(2)

Includes a gain on the sale of shares of WebMD common stock. The
impact of this gain is a $.5 million (net of tax) increase in net
earnings and an increase to diluted earnings per share of $.01 for the
fourth quarter and for 2002.

(3)

Includes a charge on the impairment of investments. The impact of
this charge is a $6.3 million (net of tax) decrease in net earnings and
a decrease to diluted earnings per share of ($.17) for the fourth
quarter and for 2002.



Cerner Corporation

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedule II

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Additions

Beginning

Costs and

Through

Balance at

Description

of Period

Expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions

End of Period

For Year
Ended December 29, 2001

Doubtful Accounts and Sale Allowances

$

5,999,000

$

800,000

$

365,000

$

(284,000

)

$

6,880,000

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Additions

Beginning

Costs and

Through

Balance at

Description

of Period

Expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions

End of Period

For Year
Ended December 28, 2002

Doubtful Accounts and Sale Allowances

$

6,880,000

$

2,816,000

$

597,000

$

(791,000

)

$

9,502,000

Additions

Through

Additions

Acquisitions and

Balance at

Charged to

Consolidation of

Beginning

Costs and

Variable Interest

Balance at

Description

of Period

Expenses

Entity

Deductions

End of Period

For Year
Ended January 3, 2004

Doubtful Accounts and Sale Allowances

$

9,502,000

$

6,017,000

$

1,331,000

$

(4,794,000

)

$

12,056,000


Independent Auditors’ Report

on Financial Statement Schedule

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Cerner Corporation:

Under date of February 3, 2004, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Cerner Corporation and subsidiaries as of January 3, 2004 and December 28,
2002, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in equity,
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended January 3,
2004. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2003. In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the related consolidated financial statement
schedule as listed under Item 15(a)(2). This consolidated financial statement
schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on this consolidated financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

In our opinion, this consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

The audit report on the consolidated financial statements of Cerner Corporation
and subsidiaries referred to above contains an explanatory paragraph that
states that the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.
142, “

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”

on December 30, 2001.

Kansas City, Missouri

February 3, 2004