
10-K405
UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES FORM 10-K



 
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------
(MARK ONE)
           /X/   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                       OR
         / /   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                         TO
 
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 0-10454
 
                        UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (610) 768-3300
                         ------------------------------
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                      CLASS D COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                             (TITLE OF EACH CLASS)
 
                         ------------------------------
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                            YES 'X'        NO
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
 
The number of shares of the registrant's Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value,
Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class C Common Stock, $.01 par value, and
Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of February 1, 1996, was
1,090,527, 12,671,261, 109,622, and 20,356, respectively.
 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates at February 1,
1996 was $644,919,328.88. (For purpose of this calculation, it was assumed that
Class A, Class C, and Class D Common Stock, which are not traded but are
convertible share-for-share into Class B Common Stock, have the same market
value as Class B Common Stock.)
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1995 (incorporated by reference
under Part III).
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
     The principal business of Universal Health Services, Inc. (together with
its subsidiaries, the "Company") is owning and operating acute care hospitals,
behavioral health centers, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology
centers. Presently, the Company operates 29 hospitals, consisting of 14 acute
care hospitals and 15 behavioral health centers, in Arkansas, California,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri,
Nevada, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas and Washington. The Company, as part
of its Ambulatory Treatment Centers Division, owns outright, or in partnership
with physicians, and operates or manages 26 surgery and radiation oncology
centers located in 15 states.
 
     Services provided by the Company's hospitals include general surgery,
internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, diagnostic care,
coronary care, pediatric services and psychiatric services. The Company provides
capital resources as well as a variety of management services to its facilities,
including central purchasing, data processing, finance and control systems,
facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel
management, marketing and public relations.
 
     The Company selectively seeks opportunities to expand its base of
operations by acquiring, constructing or leasing additional hospital facilities.
Such expansion may provide the Company with access to new markets and new health
care delivery capabilities. The Company also seeks to increase the operating
revenues and profitability of owned hospitals by the introduction of new
services, improvement of existing services, physician recruitment and the
application of financial and operational controls. Pressures to contain health
care costs and technological developments allowing more procedures to be
performed on an outpatient basis have led payors to demand a shift to ambulatory
or outpatient care wherever possible. The Company is responding to this trend by
emphasizing the expansion of outpatient services. In addition, in response to
cost containment pressures, the Company intends to implement programs designed
to improve financial performance and efficiency while continuing to provide
quality care, including more efficient use of professional and paraprofessional
staff, monitoring and adjusting staffing levels and equipment usage, improving
patient management and reporting procedures and implementing more efficient
billing and collection procedures. The Company also continues to examine its
facilities and to dispose of those facilities which it believes do not have the
potential to contribute to the Company's growth or operating strategy.
 
     The Company is involved in continual development activities. Applications
to state health planning agencies to add new services in existing hospitals are
currently on file in several states which require certificates of need (e.g.,
Georgia and Illinois). Although the Company expects that some of these
applications will result in the addition of new facilities or services to the
Company's operations, no assurances can be made for ultimate success by the
Company in these efforts.
 
RECENT AND PROPOSED ACQUISITIONS AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
 
     The Company has an agreement for or has recently consummated a number of
acquisitions. In November 1994, the Company acquired Edinburg Hospital, a
112-bed acute care hospital located in Edinburg, Texas, which is in close
proximity to McAllen, Texas, for $11.3 million and the assumption of liabilities
totalling $2.2 million. In addition, the Company has agreed to construct and has
acquired the land for a 100-bed hospital in Edinburg. This acquisition and
development of the new hospital will enable the Company to enhance its presence
in McAllen, where it currently operates the 475-bed McAllen Medical Center.
 
     In May 1995, the Company acquired Fuller Memorial Psychiatric Hospital, an
82-bed behavioral health center, for approximately $3 million. Fuller, located
in southeastern Massachusetts and in close proximity to two of the Company's
other behavioral health centers and its eleven day-treatment clinics, will
augment the Company's ability to serve additional patients in southeastern
Massachusetts.
 
     In July 1995, the Company exchanged the operations and fixed assets of
Westlake Medical Center, a 126-bed acute care hospital located in Westlake,
California, and Dallas Family Hospital, a 104-bed acute care hospital in Dallas,
Texas, and approximately $44 million in cash, for Aiken Regional Medical
Centers, a
 

 
225-bed medical center complex in Aiken, South Carolina, formerly owned by a
subsidiary of Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation. In September 1995, the
Company purchased substantially all the assets of Manatee Memorial Hospital, a
512-bed acute care hospital, located in Bradenton, Florida, for $139 million in
cash.
 
     The Company is developing, with the participation of Howard Hughes
Corporation, a medical complex including a 129-bed acute care hospital, an
ambulatory surgery center, a medical office building and a diagnostic center in
the community of Summerlin, Nevada, in western Las Vegas. These facilities are
expected to open in various stages during 1996 and 1997.
 
     In February 1996, the Company entered into an agreement with the Amarillo
Hospital District to purchase Northwest Texas Health Systems, a 360-bed medical
complex located in Amarillo, Texas. The closing of the transaction, which is
expected to be completed during the second quarter of 1996, is subject to the
receipt of various regulatory approvals and other conditions. This acquisition
will provide the Company with a modern facility in a new market. Northwest Texas
Health is a market leader and is one of two hospitals located in Amarillo.
 
     In 1995, the Company continued to add to its Ambulatory Treatment Centers
Division and acquired, in partnership with physicians, additional free-standing
ambulatory surgery centers located in Fayetteville, Arkansas; Somersworth, New
Hampshire; and Waltham, Massachusetts. Also, as part of this Division, the
Company agreed to manage the operations of, and purchase a majority interest in,
a partnership which leases fixed assets to a radiation therapy center in
Louisville, Kentucky.
 
     The Company also selectively expanded its operations at certain of its
existing facilities; McAllen Medical Center in McAllen, Texas, completed
construction of a new cardiac care unit, adding 21 beds and nearly doubling the
unit's present capacity; River Parishes Hospital in LaPlace, Louisiana,
completed construction of a 40,000 square foot medical office building; and
Wellington Regional Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida, completed
expansion of their emergency department, more than doubling its size and adding
pediatric and rapid care rooms.
 
     In keeping with its strategy to exit crowded markets, the Company sold
Universal Medical Center in Plantation, Florida, to OrNda HealthCorp. on October
31, 1995, for $20 million cash.
 
BED UTILIZATION AND OCCUPANCY RATES
 
     The following table shows the bed utilization and occupancy rates for the
hospitals operated by the Company for the years indicated, excluding information
relating to hospitals no longer owned by the Company as of December 31, 1995 and
including the information for the following acquisitions made during 1994 and
1995: (i) a 112-bed acute care hospital located in Edinburg, Texas; (ii) an
82-bed psychiatric hospital located in South Attleboro, Massachusetts; (iii) a
225-bed acute care hospital located in Aiken, South Carolina, and; (iv) a
512-bed acute care hospital located in Bradenton, Florida. Accordingly, the
information is presented on a basis different from that used in preparing the
historical financial information included in this Report.
 

 

 
- - ---------------
 
(1) "Average Available Beds" is the number of beds which are actually in service
    at any given time for immediate patient use with the necessary equipment and
    staff available for patient care. A hospital may have appropriate licenses
    for more beds than are in service for a number of reasons, including lack of
    demand, incomplete construction, and anticipation of future needs.
 
(2) "Patient Days" is the aggregate sum for all patients of the number of days
     that hospital care is provided to each patient.
 
(3) "Occupancy Rate" is calculated by dividing average patient days (total
     patient days divided by the total number of days in the period) by the
     number of average beds, either available or licensed.
 
     The number of patient days of a hospital is affected by a number of
factors, including the number of physicians using the hospital, changes in the
number of beds, the composition and size of the population of the community in
which the hospital is located, general and local economic conditions, variations
in local medical and surgical practices and the degree of outpatient use of the
hospital services. Current industry trends in utilization and occupancy have
been significantly affected by changes in reimbursement policies of third party
payors. A continuation of such industry trends could have a material adverse
impact upon the Company's future operating performance. The Company has
experienced growth in outpatient utilization over the past several years. The
Company is unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on the
Company's future revenues because it is dependent upon developments in medical
technologies and physician practice patterns, both of which are outside of the
Company's control. The Company is also unable to predict the extent which other
industry trends will continue or accelerate.
 
SOURCES OF REVENUE
 
     The Company receives payment for services rendered from private insurers,
including managed care plans, the Federal government under the Medicare program,
state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from
patients. Most of the company's hospitals are certified as providers of Medicare
and Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities. The
requirements for certification are subject to change, and, in order to remain
qualified for such programs, it may be necessary for the Company to make changes
from time to time in its facilities, equipment, personnel and services. Although
the Company intends to continue in such programs, there is no assurance that it
will continue to qualify for participation.
 
     The sources of the Company's hospital revenues are charges related to the
services provided by the hospitals and their staffs, such as radiology,
operating rooms, pharmacy, physiotherapy and laboratory procedures, and basic
charges for the hospital room and related services such as general nursing care,
meals, maintenance and housekeeping. Hospital revenues depend upon the occupancy
for inpatient routine services, the extent to which ancillary services and
therapy programs are ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume
of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such
services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services vary
depending on the type of bed occupied (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or
psychiatric) and the geographic location of the hospital.
 
     Valley Hospital Medical Center in Las Vegas, Nevada contributed 18%, 19%
and 16% of the Company's net revenues and 30%, 35% and 32% of the Company's
earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, lease and
rental expense and nonrecurring transactions (EBITDAR), for the three years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, excluding the effect of
the special Medicaid reimbursements received at two of the Company's Texas acute
care hospitals of $12.6 million, $12.7 million and $13.5 million for the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. McAllen Medical Center in
McAllen, Texas contributed 20%, 21% and 18% of the Company's net revenues and
36%, 35% and 32% of the Company's EBITDAR, for the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, excluding the special Medicaid reimbursements
mentioned above.
 

 
     The following table shows approximate percentages of net patient revenue
derived by the Company's hospitals owned as of December 31, 1995 since their
respective dates of acquisition by the Company from third party sources,
excluding the effect of special Medicaid reimbursements received at the
Company's Texas acute care hospitals of $12.6 million in 1995, $12.7 million in
1994, $13.5 million in 1993 and $29.8 million in 1992, and from all other
sources during the five years ended December 31, 1995.
 

 
REGULATION AND OTHER FACTORS
 
     Within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, there
are substantial areas subject to administrative rulings, interpretations and
discretion which may affect payments made under either or both of such programs
and reimbursement is subject to audit and review by third party payors.
Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments
that might result therefrom.
 
     The Federal government makes payments to participating hospitals under its
Medicare program based on various formulae. The Company's general acute care
hospitals are subject to a prospective payment system ("PPS"). PPS pays
hospitals a predetermined amount per diagnostic related group ("DRG") based upon
a hospital's location and the patient's diagnosis.
 
     The deficit-reduction legislation passed by Congress in 1987 limits the
increases in PPS reimbursement based on the rate of inflation and the location
of hospitals. Psychiatric hospitals, which are exempt from PPS, are cost
reimbursed by the Medicare program, but are subject to a per discharge
limitation, calculated based on the hospital's first full year in the Medicare
program. Capital related costs are exempt from this limitation.
 
     On August 30, 1991, the Health Care Financing Administration issued final
Medicare regulations establishing a prospective payment methodology for
inpatient hospital capital-related costs. These regulations apply to hospitals
which are reimbursed based upon the prospective payment system and took effect
for cost years beginning on or after October 1, 1991. For each of the Company's
hospitals, the new methodology began on January 1, 1992.
 
     The regulations provide for the use of a 10-year transition period in which
a blend of the old and new capital payment provisions will be utilized. One of
two methodologies will apply during the 10-year transition period: if the
hospital's hospital-specific capital rate exceeds the federal capital rate, the
hospital will be paid on the basis of a "hold harmless" methodology, which is a
blend of actual cost reimbursement and a prospectively determined national
federal capital rate; or, with limited exceptions, if the hospital-specific rate
is below the federal capital rate, the hospital will receive payments based upon
a "fully prospective" methodology, which is a blend of the hospital's actual
base year capital rate and a prospectively determined national federal capital
rate. Each hospital's hospital-specific rate was determined based upon allowable
capital costs incurred during the "base year", which, for all of the Company's
hospitals, is the year ended December 31, 1990. All of the Company's hospitals
are paid under the "hold harmless" methodology except for one hospital, which is
paid under the "fully prospective" methodology.
 
     Within certain limits, a hospital can manage its costs, and, to the extent
this is done effectively, a hospital may benefit from the DRG system. However,
many hospital operating costs are incurred in order to satisfy licensing laws,
standards of the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations and quality of care concerns. In addition, hospital costs are
affected by the level of patient acuity, occupancy rates and local physician
practice patterns, including length of stay judgments and number and type of
tests and
 

 
procedures ordered. A hospital's ability to control or influence these factors
which affect costs is, in many cases, limited.
 
     Both the House of Representatives and the Senate have passed legislation
providing for substantial Medicare savings over a seven year period, including
reductions in payments to hospitals, which would limit the rate of growth of the
program. The House of Representatives and the Senate bills have not yet been
reconciled and the ultimate legislation will be subject to Presidential
approval. The Company cannot predict what new legislation may ultimately be
enacted, and if enacted, no assurance can be given that the implementation of
such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.
 
     In addition to Federal health reform efforts, several states have adopted
or are considering healthcare reform legislation. Several states are planning to
consider wider use of managed care for their Medicaid populations and providing
coverage for some people who presently are uninsured. The enactment of Medicaid
managed care initiatives is designed to provide low-cost coverage. The Company
currently operates three behavioral health centers with a total of 268 beds in
Massachusetts, which has mandated hospital rate-setting. The Company also
operates three hospitals containing an aggregate of 688 beds in Florida that are
subject to a mandated form of rate-setting if increases in hospital revenues per
admission exceed certain target percentages. In Texas, a law has been passed
which mandates that the state senate apply for a waiver from current Medicaid
regulations to allow the state to require that certain Medicaid participants be
serviced through managed care providers. The Company is unable to predict
whether Texas will be granted such a waiver or the effect on the Company's
business of such waiver.
 
     Pursuant to Federal legislation, in general, the Federal government is
required to match state funds applied to state Medicaid programs. Several states
had programs under which certain hospital providers were taxed to generate
Medicaid funds which must be matched by the Federal government. New legislation
passed by Congress on November 27, 1991, limited each state's use of provider
taxes after 1994. State programs involving provider taxes in which UHS'
hospitals are participants were in place in Texas, Louisiana, Missouri, and
Nevada. The Louisiana, Missouri and Nevada programs expired during 1994 and
1995, and the Texas program is scheduled to expire in August 1996.
 
     Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA"), enacted by
Congress in late 1993, and effective January 1, 1995, physicians are precluded
from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients for a wide range of services where
the physician has an ownership interest or investment interest in, or
compensation arrangement with, an entity that provides such services. The
legislation includes certain exceptions including, for example, where the
referring physician has an ownership interest in a hospital as a whole or an
ambulatory surgery center if the physician performs services at the center. In
addition, all Medicare providers and suppliers are subject to certain reporting
and disclosure requirements.
 
     In 1991, 1992 and 1993, the Inspector General of the Department of Health
and Human Services ("HHS") issued regulations which provide for "safe harbors";
if an arrangement or transaction meets each of the stipulations established for
a particular safe harbor, the arrangement will not be subject to challenge by
the Inspector General. If an arrangement does not meet the safe harbor criteria,
it will be analyzed under its particular facts and circumstances to determine
whether it violates the Medicare anti-kickback statute which prohibits, in
general, fraudulent and abusive practices, and enforcement action may be taken
by the Inspector General. In addition to the investment interests safe harbor,
other safe harbors include space rental, equipment rental, personal
service/management contracts, sales of a physician practice, referral services,
warranties, employees, discounts and group purchasing arrangements, among
others.
 
     The Company does not anticipate that either the OBRA provisions or the safe
harbor regulations will have material adverse effects upon its operations.
 
     Several states, including Florida and Nevada, have passed legislation which
limits physician ownership in medical facilities providing imaging services,
rehabilitation services, laboratory testing, physical therapy and other
services. This legislation is not expected to significantly affect the Company's
operations.
 

 
     All hospitals are subject to compliance with various federal, state and
local statutes and regulations and receive periodic inspection by state
licensing agencies to review standards of medical care, equipment and
cleanliness. The Company's hospitals must comply with the licensing requirements
of federal, state and local health agencies, as well as the requirements of
municipal building codes, health codes and local fire departments. In granting
and renewing licenses, a department of health considers, among other things, the
physical buildings and equipment, the qualifications of the administrative
personnel and nursing staff, the quality of care and continuing compliance with
the laws and regulations relating to the operation of the facilities. State
licensing of facilities is a prerequisite to certification under the Medicare
and Medicaid programs. Various other licenses and permits are also required in
order to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials
and operate certain equipment. All the Company's eligible hospitals have been
accredited by the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations.
 
     The Social Security Act and regulations thereunder contain numerous
provisions which affect the scope of Medicare coverage and the basis for
reimbursement of Medicare providers. Among other things, this law provides that
in states which have executed an agreement with the Secretary of the Department
of Health and Human Services (the "Secretary"), Medicare reimbursement may be
denied with respect to depreciation, interest on borrowed funds and other
expenses in connection with capital expenditures which have not received prior
approval by a designated state health planning agency. Additionally, many of the
states in which the Company's hospitals are located have enacted legislation
requiring certificates of need ("CON") as a condition prior to hospital capital
expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new
services. Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in the inability
to complete an acquisition or change of ownership, the imposition of civil or,
in some cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive Medicare or Medicaid
reimbursement or the revocation of a facility's license. The Company has not
experienced and does not expect to experience any material adverse effects from
those requirements.
 
     Health planning statutes and regulatory mechanisms are in place in many
states in which the Company operates. These provisions govern the distribution
of healthcare services, the number of new and replacement hospital beds,
administer required state CON laws, contain healthcare costs, and meet the
priorities established therein. Significant CON reforms have been proposed in a
number of states, including increases in the capital spending thresholds and
exemptions of various services from review requirements. The Company is unable
to predict the impact of these changes upon its operations.
 
     Federal regulations provide that admissions and utilization of facilities
by Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed in order to insure efficient
utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations require Peer
Review Organizations ("PROs") to review the appropriateness of Medicare and
Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the
validity of DRG classifications and the appropriateness of cases of
extraordinary length of stay. PROs may deny payment for services provided,
assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to HHS that a provider
that is in substantial non-compliance with the standards of the PRO be excluded
from participating in the Medicare program. The Company has contracted with PROs
in each state where it does business as to the scope of such functions.
 
     The Company's healthcare operations generate medical waste that must be
disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws,
rules and regulations. In 1988, Congress passed the Medical Waste Tracking Act.
Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, now face substantial penalties
for improper arrangements regarding disposal of medical waste, including civil
penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal penalties of
$150,000 per day, imprisonment, and remedial costs. The comprehensive
legislation establishes programs for medical waste treatment and disposal in
designated states. The legislation also provides for sweeping inspection
authority in the Environmental Protection Agency, including monitoring and
testing. The Company believes that its disposal of such wastes is in compliance
with all state and federal laws.
 

 
MEDICAL STAFF AND EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company's hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians who have been
admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. With a few exceptions,
physicians are not employees of the Company's hospitals and members of the
medical staffs of the Company's hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of
hospitals not owned by the Company and may terminate their affiliation with the
Company's hospitals at any time. Each of the Company's hospitals is managed on a
day-to-day basis by a managing director employed by the Company. In addition, a
Board of Governors, including members of the hospital's medical staff, governs
the medical, professional and ethical practices at each hospital. The Company's
facilities had approximately 12,000 employees at December 31, 1995, of whom
9,000 were employed full-time.
 
     614 of the Company's employees at four of its hospitals are unionized. At
Valley Hospital, unionized employees belong to the Culinary Workers and
Bartenders Union and the International Union of Operating Engineers. Registered
nurses at Auburn Regional Medical Center located in Washington State, are
represented by the Washington State Nurses Association, the practical nurses at
Auburn are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers and licensed
practical nurses at Auburn are represented by the Service Employees
International Union, Local 6. In addition, at Auburn, the technical employees
are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers, and the service
employees are represented by the Service Employees International Union. The
registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certain technicians and
therapists, and housekeeping employees at HRI Hospital in Boston are represented
by the Service Employees International Union. All full-time and regular
part-time professional employees of La Amistad Residential Treatment Center in
Maitland, Florida are represented by the United Nurses of Florida/United Health
Care Employees Union. The Company believes that its relations with its employees
are satisfactory.
 
COMPETITION
 
     In all geographical areas in which the Company operates, there are other
hospitals which provide services comparable to those offered by the Company's
hospitals, some of which are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax
revenues, and others of which are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be
supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Such
support is not available to the Company's hospitals. Certain of the Company's
competitors have greater financial resources, are better equipped and offer a
broader range of services than the Company. Outpatient treatment and diagnostic
facilities, outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical
centers also impact the healthcare marketplace. In recent years, competition
among healthcare providers for patients has intensified as hospital occupancy
rates in the United States have declined due to, among other things, regulatory
and technological changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost
containment pressures, a shift toward outpatient treatment and an increasing
supply of physicians. The Company's strategies are designed, and management
believes that its facilities are positioned, to be competitive under these
changing circumstances.
 
LIABILITY INSURANCE
 
     Most of the Company's subsidiaries are self-insured for general liability
risks for claims limited to $5 million per occurrence and for professional
liability risks for claims limited to $25 million per occurrence. Coverage in
excess of these limits up to $100 million is maintained with major insurance
carriers. Since 1993, certain of the Company's subsidiaries, including one of
its larger acute care facilities, have purchased general and professional
liability occurrence policies with commercial insurers. These policies include
coverage up to $25 million per occurrence for general and professional liability
risks.
 
     Effective January 1, 1996, the Company's self-insured subsidiaries
purchased general and professional liability insurance coverage for a three year
term with a commercial insurer. These policies include coverage for claims in
excess of $5 million and limited to $25 million per occurrence and have an
unlimited aggregate. Although the Company feels that it currently has adequate
insurance coverage, the commercial policies are limited to one-year terms and
require annual renegotiation or replacement. The Company has no assurance that
it will be able to maintain such insurance in the future on terms acceptable to
the Company.
 

 
RELATIONS WITH UNIVERSAL HEALTH REALTY INCOME TRUST
 
     The Company serves as advisor to Universal Health Realty Income Trust
("UHT"), which leases to the Company the real property of 7 facilities operated
by the Company. In addition, UHT holds interests in properties owned by
unrelated companies. The Company receives a fee for its advisory services based
on the value of UHT's assets. In addition, certain of the directors and officers
of the Company serve as trustees and officers of UHT. As of February 1, 1996,
the Company owned 8% of UHT's outstanding shares and the Company currently has
an option to purchase UHT shares in the future at fair market value to enable it
to maintain a 5% interest.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The executive officers of the Company, whose terms will expire at such time
as their successors are elected, are as follows:
 

 
     Mr. Alan B. Miller has been Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company since its inception. Prior thereto, he was
President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American
Medicorp, Inc.
 
     Mr. Gorman was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
December 1992, and has served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company
since April 1987. From 1984 until then, he served as Senior Vice President of
Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President of Mellon Bank,
N.A.
 
     Mr. Wright was elected Vice President of the Company in May 1986. He has
served in various capacities with the Company since 1978, including Senior Vice
President of its Acute Care Division since 1985.
 
     Mr. Bender was elected Vice President of the Company in March 1988. He has
served in various capacities with the Company since 1982, including
responsibility for the Psychiatric Care Division since November 1985.
 
     Mr. Filton was elected Vice President and Controller of the Company in
November 1991, and had served as Director of Accounting and Control since July
1985.
 
     Mr. Servais was elected Senior Vice President of the Company in January
1996, and has served as Vice President of the Company since January 1994,
Assistant Vice President of the Company since January 1993, and Group Director
since December 1990. Prior thereto, he served as President of Jupiter Hospital
Corporation, and Vice President of Operations of American Health Group
International.
 
     Mr. Sidney Miller has served as Secretary of the Company since 1990 and
Director of the Company since 1978. He has served in various capacities with the
Company, including Executive Vice President since 1983, Vice President since
1978, and Assistant to the President during 1993 and 1994. Prior thereto, he was
Vice President-Financial Services and Control of American Medicorp, Inc.
 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
 
     The Company owns an office building with 68,000 square feet available for
use located on 11 acres of land in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. The Company
currently uses approximately 40,000 square feet of office space in the building
and the balance is leased to unrelated entities.
 
FACILITIES
 
     The following tables set forth the name, location, type of facility and,
for acute care hospitals and behavioral health centers, the number of beds, for
each of the Company's facilities:
 
                              ACUTE CARE HOSPITALS
 

 
                           BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CENTERS
 

 

 
                           AMBULATORY SURGERY CENTERS
 

 
                           RADIATION ONCOLOGY CENTERS
 

 
                       SPECIALIZED WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTERS
 

 
- - ------------
 
     (1) Real property leased from UHT.
 
     (2) Real property leased with an option to purchase.
 
     (3) General partnership interest in limited partnership.
 
     (4) Includes Chalmette Hospital, a 114-bed rehabilitation facility. The
Company owns the LaPlace real property and leases the Chalmette real property
from UHT.
 
     (5) Addictive disease facility.
 
     (6) Managed Facility. A partnership, in which the Company is the general
partner, owns the real property.
 
     (7) Each facility other than Goldring Surgical and Diagnostic Center and
The Surgery Center of Chalmette are owned in partnership form with the Company
owning general and limited partnership interests in a limited partnership. The
real property is leased from third parties.
 
     (8) A partnership, in which the Company is the general partner, owns the
real property.
 

 
     Some of these facilities are subject to mortgages, and substantially all
the equipment located at these facilities is pledged as collateral to secure
long-term debt. The Company owns or leases medical office buildings adjoining
certain of its hospitals.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company is subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of
business, including those arising from care and treatment afforded at the
Company's hospitals and is party to various other litigation. However,
management believes the ultimate resolution of these pending proceedings will
not have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Inapplicable. No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 to a vote of security holders.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     See Item 6, Selected Financial Data
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 
- - ---------------
 
(1) Amount includes non-cash capital lease obligations.
 
(2) These prices are the high and low closing sales prices of the Company's
    Class B Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange since June
    7, 1991 and NASDAQ for all periods prior to June 7, 1991. Class A, C and D
    Common Stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into Class B Common
    Stock.
 

 

 
     The 1994, 1993 and 1992 earnings per share and average number of shares
outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the assumed conversion of the
Company's convertible debentures. In April 1994, the Company redeemed the
debentures which reduced the fully diluted number of shares outstanding by
451,233. The common equivalent shares and the corresponding interest savings on
the assumed conversion of the convertible debentures were not included in the
1991 earnings per share computations because the effect was anti-dilutive.
 
NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS OF RECORD AS OF JANUARY 31, 1996, WERE AS FOLLOWS:
- - -----------------------------
Class A Common              7
Class B Common            563
Class C Common              7
Class D Common            316
- - -----------------------------
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
         CONDITION
 
               MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS
                            AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Net revenues increased 19% ($149 million) to $931 million in 1995 over 1994
and 3% ($21 million) to $782 million in 1994 as compared to 1993. The increase
during 1995 was primarily attributable to revenues generated at two acute care
facilities acquired by the Company during 1995 net of the revenue effects of the
three acute care facilities divested during the year ($58 million), revenue
growth at acute care facilities owned during both years ($44 million) and a full
year of revenue generated at an acute care facility acquired by the Company in
November, 1994 ($29 million). The increase in net revenues in 1994 as compared
to 1993 resulted primarily from revenue growth at facilities owned during both
years and the acquisition and development of ambulatory treatment centers.
 
     Net revenues at hospital facilities owned during all three periods
increased by 7% ($47 million) in 1995 over 1994 and 7% ($42 million) in 1994
over 1993, excluding the additional revenues received by two of the Company's
acute care facilities which participate in the Texas Medical Assistance Program.
Upon meeting certain conditions of participation and serving a
disproportionately high share of the state's low income patients, these two
hospitals became eligible and received additional reimbursements totaling $12.6
million in 1995, $12.7 million in 1994 and $13.5 million in 1993. These programs
are scheduled to terminate in August, 1996 and the Company cannot predict
whether these programs will continue beyond the scheduled termination date. The
Company acquired a 225-bed acute care hospital in July, 1995 and a 512-bed acute
care hospital in August, 1995 which contributed combined net revenues of $89
million during 1995. The Company divested three acute care hospitals during 1995
and two acute care hospitals during 1993 which contributed combined net revenues
of $50 million, $81 million and $115 million during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Net revenues at the Company's ambulatory treatment centers
increased to $23 million in 1995 from $17 million in 1994 and $11 million in
1993.
 
     Excluding the revenue effects of the special Medicaid reimbursement
programs, earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization,
lease and rental expense and nonrecurring transactions (EBITDAR) increased to
$151 million in 1995 from $127 million in 1994 and $113 million in 1993. The
Company's consolidated operating margins were 16.4% in 1995, 16.5% in 1994 and
15.1% in 1993. While operating margins at the Company's acute care and
behavioral health services facilities owned during both 1995 and 1994 increased,
the Company's consolidated margin was lower in 1995 as compared to 1994 due to
 

 
losses sustained at the three acute care facilities divested during 1995. The
improvement in the Company's consolidated operating margins in 1994 compared to
1993 was due primarily to the divestiture of two low margin acute care
facilities in 1993 and lower insurance expense in 1994 as compared to 1993.
 
ACUTE CARE SERVICES
 
     Net revenues from the Company's acute care hospitals and ambulatory
treatment centers accounted for 86%, 85% and 84% of consolidated net revenues in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Net revenues at the Company's acute care hospitals owned during each of the
last three years increased 9% in 1995 over 1994 and 10% in 1994 over 1993, after
excluding the revenues received from the special Medicaid reimbursements
described above. Despite the continued shift in the delivery of healthcare
services to outpatient care, the Company's acute care hospitals experienced a 9%
increase in inpatient admissions and a 5% increase in patient days in 1995 as
compared to 1994 due primarily to increased inpatient volume at two of the
Company's larger facilities. Admissions and patient days at acute care
facilities owned during each of the last three years increased 10% and 8%,
respectively, in 1994 as compared to 1993 due primarily to additional capacity
and expansion of service lines at two of the Company's larger facilities.
Outpatient activity at the Company's acute care hospitals continues to increase
as gross outpatient revenues at these hospitals increased 17% in 1995 over 1994
and 15% in 1994 over 1993 and comprised 22% of the Company's gross patient
revenues in each of the last three years. The increase is primarily the result
of advances in medical technologies, which allow more services to be provided on
an outpatient basis, and increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid, health
maintenance organizations (HMOs), preferred provider organizations (PPOs) and
insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a
less expensive outpatient basis. To accommodate the increased utilization of
outpatient services, the Company has expanded or redesigned several of its
outpatient facilities and services.
 
     To take advantage of the trend toward increased outpatient services, the
Company has continued to invest in the acquisition and development of outpatient
surgery and radiation therapy centers. As of December 31, 1995, the Company
operated or managed twenty-five outpatient treatment centers, including three
added during 1995, which have contributed to the increase in the Company's
outpatient revenues. The Company expects the growth in outpatient services to
continue, although the rate of growth may be moderated in the future.
 
     Excluding the revenues received from the special Medicaid reimbursements
described above, operating margins (EBITDAR) at the Company's acute care
hospitals owned during all three years were 22.6%, 22.1% and 21.3% in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively. The improvement in 1995 over 1994 was primarily the
result of increased operating margins at certain of the Company's acute care
facilities. The margin improvement in 1994 over 1993 was resulted primarily from
lower insurance expense. Although the Company's acute care operating margins
have increased during the last three years, pressure on operating margins is
expected to continue due to the industry-wide trend away from charge-based
payors which limits the Company's ability to increase its prices.
 
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES
 
     Net revenues from the Company's behavioral health services hospitals
accounted for 13%, 14% and 15% of consolidated net revenues in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. Net revenues at the Company's behavioral health hospitals
owned during each of the last three years increased 1% in 1995 over 1994 and
decreased 7% in 1994 as compared to 1993. The increase in 1995 over 1994
resulted primarily from a 4% increase in admissions and a 2% increase in patient
days while the average length of stay decreased 2% to 13.5 days in 1995 from
13.8 days in 1994. During 1994 admissions increased 12% over 1993 while patient
days decreased 3% due to a 13% decrease in the average length of stay to 13.8
days in 1994 from 15.8 days in 1993. The reduction in the average length of stay
during the last three years is a result of changing practices in the delivery of
psychiatric services and continued cost containment pressures from payors which
includes a greater emphasis on the utilization of outpatient services.
Management of the Company has responded to these trends by developing and
marketing new outpatient treatment programs. The shift to outpatient care is
reflected in higher revenues
 

 
from outpatient services, as gross outpatient revenues at the Company's
behavioral health services hospitals increased 10% in 1995 over 1994 and 17% in
1994 over 1993 and now comprises 16% of the Company's behavioral health services
gross patient revenues as compared to 15% in 1994 and 13% in 1993.
 
     Operating margins (EBITDAR) at the facilities owned during all three years
were 19.7% in 1995, 15.8% in 1994 and 21.5% in 1993. The increase in the profit
margin in 1995 as compared to 1994 was caused by an increase in admissions,
stabilization in length of stay and cost reductions implemented in response to
the managed care environment. The decrease in the profit margin in 1994 as
compared to 1993 was primarily caused by the decrease in net revenues at certain
facilities which declined due to an increase in Medicaid denials, a decrease in
days of care delivered and a decline in the net revenue per day.
 
OTHER OPERATING RESULTS
 
     During 1995, the Company recorded $11.6 million of net nonrecurring charges
which consists of: (i) a $14.2 million pre-tax charge due to impairment of
long-lived assets; (ii) a $2.7 million loss on disposal of two acute care
facilities which were exchanged along with $44 million of cash for a 225-bed
acute care hospital, and; (iii) a $5.3 million pre-tax gain realized on the sale
of a 202-bed acute care hospital which was divested during the fourth quarter of
1995 for cash proceeds of $19.5 million.
 
     As discussed elsewhere, changes in third party payment methods, advances in
medical technologies, legislative and regulatory initiatives at the Federal and
state levels along with increased competition from other providers have impacted
operating margins at the Company's facilities in recent years. These industry
conditions have adversely impacted certain of the Company's specialized
facilities and certain of the Company's smaller facilities in more competitive
markets.
 
     In conjunction with the development of the Company's operating plan and
1996 budget, management assessed the current competitive position of these
facilities and estimated future cash flows expected from these facilities. As a
result, the Company recorded a $14.2 million pre-tax charge during 1995 to
write-down the carrying value of certain intangible and tangible assets at these
facilities. In measuring the impairment loss, the Company estimated fair value
by discounting expected future cash flows from each facility using the Company's
internal hurdle rate. The impairment loss primarily related to four facilities
in the Company's behavioral health services division and three facilities in its
ambulatory treatment center division.
 
     During 1995, the impact of managed care was most dramatically felt at the
Company's free standing chemical dependency and residential treatment centers.
The Company operates two chemical dependency facilities with combined 1995 net
revenues of $8.6 million. Substantially all of the non-Medicare business at
these facilities is now managed to a large degree by third-party payors. The
increased penetration of managed care into this segment has resulted in a
continued shift from inpatient care as the primary treatment model to a
detoxification / partial hospitalization program resulting in fewer admissions
and patient days. Combined with increasing emphasis by payors on price as the
most important variable among providers and the increased competition resulting
from acute care providers expanding to offer dual diagnosis and ambulatory
detoxification services, the Company has determined that both profit margins and
volumes at these facilities have been permanently impaired. In addition, CHAMPUS
patients account for a significant portion of the Company's net revenue at its
two residential treatment centers which had combined net revenues of $10.9
million in 1995. Changes in CHAMPUS regulations and managed care penetration
into this segment of the business have driven down lengths of stay dramatically.
At these facilities, whose profitability is largely dependent on very long
lengths of stay, the decline in the average length of stay has resulted in a
permanent impairment.
 
     Within the Company's ambulatory treatment center division, three centers
with combined 1995 net revenues of $3.7 million, are located in highly
competitive markets which have become heavily penetrated with managed care. As a
result, net revenues per case and case volumes at these centers have decreased
11% and 7%, respectively, in 1995 as compared to 1994 due primarily to increased
influence of payors, increased monitoring of outpatient services and willingness
of hospitals to compete with ambulatory treatment centers on price. The Company
expects these unfavorable trends to continue within these two geographical
markets resulting in a permanent impairment.
 

 
     During 1994, nonrecurring charges of $9.8 million were recorded consisting
of the following: (i) a $4.3 million estimated loss on the disposal of two acute
care facilities mentioned above; (ii) a $2.8 write-down of the carrying value of
a psychiatric hospital owned by the Company and leased to an unaffiliated third
party which is currently in default under the terms of the lease agreement;
(iii) a $1.4 million write-down recorded against the book value of the real
property of a behavioral health services hospital, and; (iv) $1.3 million of
expenses related to the disposition of a non-strategic business. Included in the
$8.8 million of nonrecurring charges recorded in 1993 is a $4.4 million loss on
disposal of two acute care facilities divested during the fourth quarter of 1993
and $4.4 million related to the winding down or disposition of non-strategic
businesses.
 
     Depreciation and amortization expense increased $9.0 million in 1995 over
1994 due primarily to the Company's acquisition of two acute care hospitals in
July and August of 1995, net of effects of three acute care facilities divested
during the year ($5.6 million), a full year of depreciation expense of an acute
care hospital acquired in November of 1994 ($1.1 million) and the increased
depreciation expense related to capital expenditures and acquisition of
outpatient treatment centers ($2.3 million). Depreciation and amortization
expense increased $2.8 million in 1994 over 1993 due primarily to $1.9 million
of such expenses related to the Company's acquisition of outpatient treatment
centers and the increased depreciation expense related to capital expenditures
made in the Company's acute care division.
 
     Interest expense increased $4.9 million or 78% during 1995 over 1994 due
primarily to borrowings used to finance the purchase of two acute care hospitals
during 1995. The Company issued $135 million of Senior Notes during 1995 which
have a coupon rate of 8.75% (9.2% effective rate including amortization of
interest rate swap termination fees and amortization of bond discount). The $131
million of net proceeds generated from the issuance of these notes were used to
finance the cash purchase price of the two acute care hospitals acquired during
1995 while the excess of the purchase price over the net proceeds ($52 million)
was financed from operating cash flows and borrowings under the Company's
commercial paper and revolving credit facilities. Interest expense decreased
$2.4 million or 27% in 1994 as compared to 1993 due to lower average outstanding
borrowings.
 
     The effective tax rate was 33%, 39% and 32% in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 1995 as compared to 1994
was due to: (i) the deductibility of previously non-deductible goodwill
amortization resulting from the sale of three acute care hospitals, and; (ii)
the financing of employee benefit programs. The increase in the effective tax
rate for 1994 as compared to 1993 was due to the 1993 tax provision containing a
reduction in the state tax provision.
 
GENERAL TRENDS
 
     An increased proportion of the Company's revenue is derived from fixed
payment services, including Medicare and Medicaid which accounted for 48%, 44%
and 43% of the Company's net patient revenues during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively, excluding the additional revenues from special Medicaid
reimbursement programs. The Company expects the Medicare and Medicaid revenues
to continue to increase as a larger portion of the general population qualifies
for coverage as a result of the aging of the population and expansion of state
Medicaid programs. The Medicare program reimburses the Company's hospitals
primarily based on established rates by a diagnosis related group for acute care
hospitals and by cost based formula for psychiatric hospitals.
 
     In addition to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, other payors continue to
actively negotiate the amounts they will pay for services performed. In general,
the Company expects the percentage of its business from managed care programs,
including HMOs and PPOs to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks
and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of the
Company's facilities vary among the markets in which the Company operates.
 
HEALTHCARE REFORM
 
     In addition to the trends described above that continue to have an impact
on operating results, there are a number of other more general factors affecting
the Company's business. Both the House of Representatives and the Senate have
passed legislation providing for substantial Medicare savings over a seven year
period,
 

 
including reductions in payments to hospitals, which would limit the rate of
growth of the program. The House of Representatives and the Senate bills have
not yet been reconciled and the ultimate legislation will be subject to
Presidential approval. The Company cannot predict what new legislation may
ultimately be enacted, and if enacted, no assurance can be given that the
implementation of such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business. In Texas, a law has been passed which mandates that the
state senate apply for a waiver from current Medicaid regulations to allow the
state to require that certain Medicaid participants be serviced through managed
care providers. The Company is unable to predict whether Texas will be granted
such a waiver or the effect on the Company's business of such waiver.
 
INFLATION
 
     The healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits
are subject to inflationary pressures as are supply costs which tend to escalate
as vendors pass on the rising costs through price increases. Although the
Company cannot predict its ability to continue to cover future costs increases,
management believes that through the adherence to cost containment policies,
labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation, which
has not had a material impact on the results of operations during the last three
years, on future operating margins should be manageable. However, the Company's
ability to pass on these increased costs associated with providing healthcare to
Medicare and Medicaid patients may be limited since although these fixed
payments rates are indexed for inflation annually, the increases have
historically lagged behind actual inflation.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities was $91.7 million, $60.6 million
and $84.6 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The $31.1 million
increase in 1995 as compared to 1994 was primarily attributable to: (i) a $21.1
million increase in net income plus the addback of the non-cash charges
(depreciation, amortization, provision for selfinsurance reserves and other
non-cash charges); (ii) a $12.7 million increase in accrued liabilities as of
December 31, 1995 as compared to the 1994 year-end balance, and; (iii) a $6.0
million decrease in the payments made in settlement of self-insurance claims.
Partially offsetting these favorable increases in net cash provided by operating
activities was a $10.2 million increase in income tax payments made during 1995
as compared to 1994. The $24.0 million decrease in 1994 as compared to 1993 was
primarily attributable to an increase in the number of days of revenues in
accounts receivable, acceleration in the payment of income taxes and an increase
in the payments made in the settlement of the Company's self-insurance reserves.
The unfavorable change in the outstanding accounts receivable balances as of
year-end 1994 as compared to year-end 1993 was caused by a temporary decline in
cash collections due to information system conversions at the Company's
hospitals. During each of the last three years, the net cash provided by
operating activities substantially exceeded the scheduled maturities of
long-term debt.
 
     During 1995 the Company acquired the following facilities for two acute
care facilities and total cash consideration of $188 million and the assumption
of net liabilities of approximately $4 million: (i) a 512-bed acute care
hospital located in Bradenton, Florida for approximately $139 million in cash
and the assumption of net liabilities of $4 million; (ii) a 225-bed acute care
facility located in Aiken, South Carolina for approximately $44 million in cash
and a 104-bed acute care hospital and a 126-bed acute hospital, and; (iii) an
82-bed psychiatric hospital located in South Attleboro, Massachusetts and a
majority interest in two separate partnerships which own and operate outpatient
surgery centers located in Fayetteville, Arkansas and Somersworth, New Hampshire
for total cash consideration of approximately $5 million. Also during 1995, the
Company agreed to construct a medical complex located in Summerlin, Nevada
consisting of a 129-bed acute care facility, a medical office building, an
outpatient surgery center and a radiation therapy center. The total construction
cost for these facilities, which are scheduled to open at various dates in 1996
and 1997, will be approximately $60 million. During the first quarter of 1996,
the Company executed an agreement to purchase a 360-bed acute care facility
located in Amarillo, Texas for $120 million. The closing of this transaction,
which is subject to regulatory approval, is expected to occur during the second
quarter of 1996.
 
     During 1995, the Company sold the operations and substantially all the
assets of a 202-bed acute care hospital located in Plantation, Florida for cash
proceeds of approximately $20 million. The sale resulted in a
 

 
$5.3 million pre-tax gain which has been included in nonrecurring charges in the
1995 consolidated statement of income.
 
     During 1994, the Company paid $25.8 million for acquisitions of businesses
and assets held for lease and $11.5 million for acquisitions of businesses in
1993. During 1994, the Company invested in additional outpatient treatment
centers and purchased a 112-bed acute care hospital located in Edinburg, Texas.
In connection with the acquisition of the Edinburg facility, the Company is
committed to invest at least an additional $30 million over a ten year period.
Pursuant to this commitment, the Company intends to renovate the existing
facility and construct a new acute care facility by late 1998. Approximately
$2.2 million was spent on this project during 1995.
 
     Capital expenditures, excluding capital leases, were $60.7 million in 1995,
$44.0 million in 1994 and $47.3 million in 1993. Capital expenditures in 1996
are expected to be approximately $30.0 million for capital equipment and
renovations of existing facilities. Additionally, capital expenditures are
expected for new projects at existing hospitals and medical office buildings to
total approximately $38.5 million in 1996. The estimated cost to complete major
construction projects in progress at December 31, 1995 is approximately $45.8
million. The Company believes that its capital expenditure program is adequate
to expand, improve and equip its existing hospitals.
 
     Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 45% at December 31,
1995 and 26% at December 31, 1994 and 1993. The increase during 1995 as compared
to 1994 and 1993 was due primarily to the additional debt incurred to finance
the purchase of the 512-bed acute care facility in Bradenton, Florida and the
225-bed acute care facility in Aiken, South Carolina.
 
     During 1995, the Company issued $135 million of Senior Notes. The Senior
Notes have an 8.75% coupon rate (9.2% effective rate including amortization of
interest rate swap termination fees and amortization of bond discount) and will
mature on August 15, 2005. The Notes can be redeemed in whole or in part, at any
time on or after August 15, 2000, initially at a price of 102.265%, declining
ratably to par on or after August 15, 2002. The interest on the bonds will be
paid semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The net
proceeds generated from the issuance were approximately $131 million and were
used to finance the acquisitions described above. In anticipation of the Senior
Note issuance, the Company entered into interest rate swaps having a total
notional principal amount of $100 million to hedge the interest rate on the
Senior Notes. These interest rate swap agreements were terminated simultaneously
with the issuance of the Senior Notes at which time the Company paid a net
termination fee of $5.4 million which is being amortized ratably over the ten
year term of the Senior Notes.
 
     Also during 1995, the Company amended its unsecured non-amortizing
revolving credit agreement. The amended agreement, which expires on March 31,
2000, provides for $225 million of borrowing capacity, subject to certain
conditions, until March 31, 1998, $210 million until March 31, 1999 and $185
million until March 31, 2000. The agreement provides for interest, at the
Company's option, at various rates. At December 31, 1995, the Company had $207
million of unused borrowing capacity available under the revolving credit
agreement.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable are pledged as
collateral to secure its $50 million, daily valued, commercial paper program.
The Company has sufficient patient receivables to support a larger program, and
upon the mutual consent of the Company and the participating lending
institutions, the commitment can be increased. At December 31, 1995 there were
$48 million of borrowings outstanding under this facility.
 
     At December 31, 1995 the Company had one interest rate swap agreement with
a notional principal amount of $10 million. This agreement calls for the payment
of interest at a fixed rate by the Company in return for payment of a variable
rate interest by a commercial bank. This swap effectively fixes the Company's
interest rate on $10 million of its floating rate debt at 9.015%. The interest
rate swap expires in March, 1996. The effective interest rate on the Company's
revolving credit, demand notes and commercial paper program including the
interest rate swap expense was 8.4%, 16.1% and 13.9% during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Additional interest expense recorded as a result of the Company's
hedging activity was $209,000, $1,981,000
 

 
and $3,160,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The Company is exposed to
credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the interest
rate swap agreement. This counterparty is a major financial institution which is
rated AA by Moody's Investors Service and the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance. The cost to terminate the swap obligation at December 31, 1995
and 1994 was approximately $113,000 and $151,000, respectively.
 
     The Company expects to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions
with internally generated funds and debt or equity financing. Additional
borrowed funds may be obtained either through refinancing the existing revolving
credit agreement, the commercial paper facility or the issuance of long-term
securities.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of
Income, Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders' Equity, and Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, together with the report of Arthur Andersen LLP,
independent public accountants, are included elsewhere herein. Reference is made
to the "Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule."
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under
the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement, to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December
31, 1995. See also "Executive Officers of the Registrant" appearing in Part I
hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under
the caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December
31, 1995.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under
the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Company's Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1995.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under
the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Company's
Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
120 days after December 31, 1995.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(A) 1. AND 2. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.
 
     See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page
24.
 

 
(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     Report on Form 8-K dated and filed on September 15, 1995, and amended on
Form 8-K/A dated and filed on October 5, 1995, reporting the acquisition of
substantially all of the assets and operations of Manatee Memorial Hospital,
previously filed with Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(C) EXHIBITS
 
     3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, previously filed as
Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 1983, Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1985, and Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1987, are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     3.2 Bylaws of Registrant as amended, previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     9. Stockholders Agreement, dated September 26, 1985, among Alan B. Miller,
Thomas L. Kempner, Sidney Miller, Anthony Pantaleoni and George H. Strong,
previously filed as Exhibit 9 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1985, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     9.1 Amendment No. 1, dated as of November 1, 1989, to Stockholders
Agreement, dated September 26, 1985, among Alan B. Miller, Thomas L. Kempner,
Sidney Miller, Anthony Pantaleoni and George H. Strong, previously filed as
Exhibit 9.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.1 Restated Purchase Agreement, dated June 22, 1981, among Registrant,
its preferred stockholders and certain of its officers, previously filed as
Exhibit 10.10 to Registration Statement No. 2-72393 on Form S-1, is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
     10.2 Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of July 14, 1992, by and
between Registrant and Alan B. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.3 Form of Employee Stock Purchase Agreement for Restricted Stock Grants,
previously filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1985, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.4 Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal
Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc., previously filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986,
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.5 Agreement, effective January 1, 1996, to renew Advisory Agreement,
dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and
UHS of Delaware, Inc.
 
     10.6 Form of Leases, including Form of Master Lease Document for Leases,
between certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Universal Health Realty
Income Trust, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 3 of the Registration
Statement on Form S-11 and Form S-2 of Registrant and Universal Health Realty
Income Trust (Registration No. 33-7872), is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.7 Share Option Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between
Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Registrant, previously filed as Exhibit
10.4 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.8 Corporate Guaranty of Obligations of Subsidiaries Pursuant to Leases
and Contract of Acquisition, dated December 24, 1986, issued by Registrant in
favor of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, previously filed as Exhibit 10.5
to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
     10.9 1990 Employees' Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as
Exhibit 10.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.10 1992 Corporate Ownership Program, previously filed as Exhibit 10.24
to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991,
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.11 1992 Stock Bonus Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.25 to
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.12 Sale and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, between
Certain Hospitals and UHS Receivables Corp., previously filed as Exhibit 10.16
to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.13 Servicing Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, among UHS
Receivables Corp., UHS of Delaware, Inc. and Continental Bank, National
Association, previously filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     10.14 Pooling Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, among UHS
Receivables Corp., Sheffield Receivables Corporation and Continental Bank,
National Association, previously filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Registrant's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
     10.15 Guarantee dated as of November 16, 1993, by Universal Health
Services, Inc. in favor of UHS Receivables Corp., previously filed as Exhibit
10.19 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1993, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.16 Amendment No. 1 to the 1992 Stock Bonus Plan, previously filed as
Exhibit 10.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.17 1994 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.22 to
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.18 Credit Agreement, dated as of August 2, 1994, among Universal Health
Services, Inc., Certain Participating Banks, and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
of New York, as Agent, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.19 Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of April 24, 1995,
among Universal Health Services, Inc., Certain Participating Banks and Morgan
Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Agent, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1
to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
1995, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.20 Authorizing Resolution adopted by the Pricing Committee of Universal
Health Services, Inc. on August 1, 1995, related to $135 million principal
amount of 8 3/4% Senior Notes due 2005, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995,
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.21 Indenture dated as of July 15, 1995, between Universal Health
Services, Inc. and PNC Bank, National Association, Trustee, previously filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.22 Amendment No. 1 to the Pooling Agreement dated as of September 30,
1994, among UHS Receivables Corp., Sheffield Receivables Corporation and Bank of
America Illinois (as successor to Continental Bank N.A.) as Trustee, previously
filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 1994, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.23 Amended and Restated 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan,
previously filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
     10.24 Asset Exchange Agreement among C/HCA Development, Inc., Universal
Health Services, Inc., Aiken Regional Medical Centers, Inc., Dallas Family
Hospital, Inc., Westlake Medical Center, Inc. and UHS of Delaware, Inc., as
amended, previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Registrant's Form S-3 Registration
Statement dated June 15, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.25 Asset Purchase Agreement among Baptist Hospitals and Health Systems,
Inc. and Affiliated Florida Companies and Manatee Memorial Hospital, L.P., and
Universal Health Services, Inc., dated as of June 30, 1995, previously filed as
Exhibit 99.2 to Registrant's Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 Registration Statement
dated July 18, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     10.26 1992 Stock Option Plan, as Amended.
 
     10.27 Stock Purchase Plan.
 
     10.28 Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 6, 1996, among Amarillo
Hospital District, UHS of Amarillo, Inc. and Universal Health Services, Inc.
 
     11. Statement re: computation of per share earnings.
 
     22. Subsidiaries of Registrant.
 
     24. Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
 
     27. Financial Data Schedule.
 
     Exhibits, other than those incorporated by reference, have been included in
copies of this Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Stockholders of the Company will be provided with copies of those exhibits upon
written request to the Company.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                            UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
 
                                            By:     /s/ ALAN B. MILLER
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                       ALAN B. MILLER
                                                         PRESIDENT
 
March 22, 1996
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 

 
                        UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
                                  (ITEM 14(a))
 

 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Universal Health Services, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Universal
Health Services, Inc. (Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of income, common
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995. These consolidated financial statements and the
schedule referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Universal
Health Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
 
     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the Index to
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule is presented for the
purpose of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not a required part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects
the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Philadelphia, PA
February 10, 1996
 

 
                UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF NON-CASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
     See Notes 2 and 6
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
 

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Universal
Health Services, Inc. (the "Company") and its majority-owned subsidiaries and
partnerships controlled by the Company as the managing general partner. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The
more significant accounting policies follow:
 
     NATURE OF OPERATIONS:  The principal business of the Company is owning and
operating acute care hospitals, behavioral health centers, ambulatory surgery
centers and radiation oncology centers. At December 31, 1995, the Company
operated 29 hospitals, consisting of 14 acute care hospitals and 15 behavioral
health centers, in Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas
and Washington. The Company, as part of its Ambulatory Treatment Centers
Division owns outright, or in partnership with physicians, and operates or
manages 25 surgery and radiation oncology centers located in 14 states.
 
     Services provided by the Company's hospitals include general surgery,
internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, diagnostic care,
coronary care, pediatric services and psychiatric services. The Company provides
capital resources as well as a variety of management services to its facilities,
including central purchasing, data processing, finance and control systems,
facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel
management, marketing and public relations.
 
     Net revenues from the Company's acute care hospitals, and ambulatory
treatment centers accounted for 86%, 85% and 84% of consolidated net revenues in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     NET REVENUES:  Net revenues are reported at the estimated net realizable
amounts from patients, third-party payors, and others for services rendered,
including estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements with
third-party payors. These net revenues are accrued on an estimated basis in the
period the related services are rendered and adjusted in future periods as final
settlements are determined. Medicare and Medicaid net revenues represented 48%,
44% and 43% of net patient revenues for the years 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively, excluding the additional revenues from special Medicaid
reimbursement programs described in Note 11.
 
     PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:  Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Expenditures for renewals and improvements are charged to the property accounts.
Replacements, maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the life of
the respective asset are expensed as incurred. The Company removes the cost and
the related accumulated depreciation from the accounts for assets sold or
retired and the resulting gains or losses are included in the results of
operations.
 
     Depreciation is provided on the straightline method over the estimated
useful lives of buildings and improvements (twenty to forty years) and equipment
(five to fifteen years).
 
     OTHER ASSETS:  The excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired in
purchase transactions, net of accumulated amortization of $59,957,000 in 1995
and $52,261,000 in 1994 is amortized using the straight-line method over periods
ranging from five to forty years.
 
     During 1994, the Company established an employee life insurance program
covering approximately 2,200 employees. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the cash
surrender value of the policies ($34.3 million and $41.3 million) were recorded
net of related loans ($34.4 million and $41.0 million) and is included in other
assets.
 
     LONG-LIVED ASSETS:  It is the Company's policy to review the carrying value
of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.
 
     In 1995, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of." The Statement requires the
recognition of an impairment loss for an asset held for use when the estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset is less
than its carrying amount.
 

 
     Measurement of the impairment loss is based on fair value of the asset.
Generally, fair value will be determined using valuation techniques such as the
present value of expected future cash flows. See Note 9.
 
     INCOME TAXES:  The Company and its subsidiaries file consolidated Federal
tax returns. Deferred taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or
deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements.
 
     OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:  Other noncurrent liabilities include the
long-term portion of the Company's professional and general liability and
workers' compensation reserves and minority interests in majority owned
subsidiaries and partnerships.
 
     EARNINGS PER COMMON AND COMMON SHARE EQUIVALENTS:  Earnings per share are
based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
year adjusted to give effect to common stock equivalents. The 1994 and 1993
earnings per share have been adjusted to reflect the assumed conversion of the
Company's convertible debentures. In April 1994, the Company redeemed the
debentures which reduced the fully diluted number of shares outstanding by
451,233.
 
     STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS:  For purposes of the consolidated statements of
cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Interest expense in
the consolidated statements of income is net of interest income of $567,000,
$266,000 and $498,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS:  In managing interest rate exposure, the
Company at times enters into interest rate swap agreements. When interest rates
change, the differential to be paid or received is accrued as interest expense
and is recognized over the life of the agreements. Gains and losses on
terminated interest rate swap agreements are amortized into income over the
remaining life of the underlying debt obligation or the remaining life of the
original swap, if shorter.
 
     FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:  The fair value of the Company's
registered debt, interest rate swap agreements and investments is based on
quoted market prices. The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for
cash, accrued liabilities, and short-term borrowings approximates fair value due
to the short-term nature of these instruments. Accordingly, these items have
been excluded from the fair value disclosures included elsewhere in these notes
to consolidated financial statements.
 
     USE OF ESTIMATES:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
2) ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
     1995 -- During the second quarter, the Company acquired an 82-bed
psychiatric hospital located in South Attleboro, Massachusetts for approximately
$3 million. The Company also purchased for approximately $2 million, a majority
interest in two separate partnerships which own and operate outpatient surgery
centers located in Fayetteville, Arkansas and Somersworth, New Hampshire.
 
     During the third quarter, the Company completed the acquisition of Aiken
Regional Medical Centers, ("Aiken") a 225-bed acute care facility located in
Aiken, South Carolina for approximately $44 million in cash, a 104-bed acute
care hospital and a 126-bed acute care hospital. The majority of the real estate
assets of the 126-bed facility were being leased from Universal Health Realty
Income Trust (the "Trust") pursuant to the terms of an operating lease which was
scheduled to expire in 2000. In exchange for the real estate assets of the
126-bed acute care hospital, the Company exchanged substitute properties
consisting of additional real estate assets owned by the Company but related to
three acute care facilities owned by the Trust and operated by the Company. As a
result of the divestiture of the two acute care hospitals in connection with the
acquisition of Aiken Regional Medical Centers, the Company recorded a $2.7
million and a $4.3 million pre-tax charge in the 1995 and 1994 consolidated
statements of income, respectively.
 

 
     During the third quarter, the Company completed the acquisition of Manatee
Memorial Hospital, ("Manatee") a 512-bed acute care hospital located in
Bradenton, Florida for approximately $139 million in cash and assumption of net
liabilities of approximately $4 million.
 
     During the fourth quarter, the Company sold the operations and
substantially all the assets of Universal Medical Center ("UMC"), a 202-bed
acute care hospital located in Plantation, Florida for cash proceeds of
approximately $20 million. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately
$5 million which has been included in nonrecurring charges in the 1995
consolidated statement of income.
 
     In September, 1995, the Company signed a letter of intent to acquire
Northwest Texas Hospital, a 360-bed acute care facility located in Amarillo,
Texas. The closing of this transaction, which is expected to be completed during
the second quarter of 1996, is subject to a number of conditions. Cash
consideration is expected to approximate $120 million in addition to payments by
the Company to the Amarillo Hospital District of 15% of any amount of earnings
before depreciation, interest and taxes in excess of $24 million in each year of
the seven year period commencing April 1, 1996 and ending March 31, 2003. In
addition under terms of the agreement, the Amarillo Hospital District will pay
the Company $8 million per year for the first four years and $6 million per year
(subject to certain adjustments for inflation) for up to an additional 36 years
to help support the cost of medical service to indigent patients.
 
     Operating results of Aiken and Manatee have been included in the financial
statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Assuming the Aiken and
Manatee acquisitions had been completed as of January 1, 1995 the unaudited pro
forma net revenues and net income would have been approximately $1 billion and
$37.9 million, respectively. In addition, the unaudited pro forma earnings per
share would have been $2.69. The unaudited pro forma financial information may
not be indicative of results that would have been reported if the acquisitions
had occurred at the beginning of 1995 and may not be indicative of future
operating results.
 
     The excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired in the 1995
purchase transactions is amortized using the straight-line method over fifteen
years.
 
     1994 -- During 1994 the Company purchased majority interests in two
separate partnerships which own and operate outpatient surgery facilities. One
of these partnerships was merged with an existing partnership in which the
Company held a majority ownership. The Company also agreed to manage the
operations of, and purchased a majority interest in, these separate partnerships
which lease fixed assets to four radiation therapy centers located in Kentucky.
In addition, the Company purchased one radiation center and majority interests
in two separate partnerships which own and operate radiation therapy centers.
Total consideration for these acquisitions was $14.5 million in cash, and the
assumption of liabilities totaling $3.0 million.
 
     In November 1994, the Company acquired a 112-bed acute care hospital
located in Edinburg, Texas for net cash of approximately $11.3 million and the
assumption of liabilities totaling $2.2 million. In connection with this
acquisition, the Company committed to invest at least an additional $30 million,
over a ten year period, to renovate the existing facility and construct an
additional facility. Approximately $2.2 million was spent on this project during
1995.
 
     Operating results of the hospital located in Edinburg have been included in
the financial statements from the date of acquisition. Assuming the above
Edinburg, Aiken and Manatee acquisitions had been completed as of January 1,
1994 the unaudited pro forma net revenues and net income would have been $952
million and $32 million, respectively. In addition, the unaudited pro forma
earnings per share would have been $2.25. The unaudited pro forma financial
information may not be indicative of results that would have been reported if
the acquisitions have occurred at the beginning of 1994 and may not be
indicative of future operating results.
 
     1993 -- During 1993 the Company purchased a radiation therapy center and
majority interests in four separate partnerships which own and operate
ambulatory surgery facilities for $11.5 million in cash and the assumption of
liabilities totaling $300,000.
 
     During the fourth quarter, the Company sold the operations and fixed assets
of a 124-bed acute care hospital for approximately $7.8 million in cash. The
Company also sold the operations and certain fixed assets
 

 
of a 134-bed acute care hospital for cash of $1.5 million. Concurrently, the
Company sold certain related real property to Universal Health Realty Income
Trust (the "Trust"), an affiliate and the lessor of this 134-bed acute care
hospital, for $1 million in cash and a note receivable of $900,000 (see Note 8).
In connection with this transaction, the Company's lease with the Trust for this
property was terminated. The disposition of these two facilities resulted in a
pre-tax loss of $4.4 million ($2.2 million after tax), which is included in
nonrecurring charges in the 1993 consolidated statement of income.
 
     Also during 1993, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.4 million
related to the winding down or disposition of other non-strategic businesses
which is included in nonrecurring charges in the 1993 consolidated statement of
income.
 
3) LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     A summary of long-term debt follows:
 

 
     During the third quarter of 1995, the Company completed the issuance of
$135 million of Senior Notes which have an 8.75% coupon rate and which mature on
August 15, 2005. The Notes can be redeemed in whole or in part, at any time on
or after August 15, 2000, initially at a price of 102.265%, declining ratably to
par on or after August 15, 2002. The interest on the bonds will be paid
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The net
proceeds generated from the issuance were approximately $131 million and were
used to finance the acquisitions described in Note 2. In anticipation of the
Senior Note issuance, the Company entered into interest rate swaps having a
total notional principal amount of $100 million to hedge the interest rate on
the Notes. These interest rate swaps were terminated simultaneously with the
issuance of the Notes at which time the Company paid a net termination fee of
$5.4 million. The effective rate on the Notes including the amortization of swap
termination fees and bond discount is 9.2%.
 
     The Company amended its unsecured non-amortizing revolving credit agreement
in 1995. The amended agreement, which expires on March 31, 2000, provides for
$225 million of borrowing capacity, subject to certain conditions, until March
31, 1998, $210 million until March 31, 1999 and $185 million until March 31,
2000. The agreement provides for interest, at the Company's option at the prime
rate, certificate of deposit rate plus  5/8% to 1 1/8% or Euro-dollar plus  1/2%
to 1%. A fee ranging from  1/8% to  3/8% is required on the unused portion of
this commitment. The margins over the certificate of deposit, the Euro-dollar
rates and the commitment fee are based upon specified leverage and coverage
ratios. At December 31, 1995 the applicable margins over the certificate of
deposit and the Euro-dollar rate were  7/8% and  3/4%, respectively, and the
 

 
commitment fee was 1/4 %. There are no compensating balance requirements. The
agreement contains a provision whereby 50% of the net consideration, in excess
of $25 million, from the disposition of assets will be applied to reduce
commitments unless such net consideration is reinvested in newly acquired
capital over a twelve month period. At December 31, 1995, the Company had $207
million of unused borrowing capacity available under the revolving credit
agreement.
 
     The average amounts outstanding during 1995, 1994 and 1993 under the
revolving credit and demand notes and commercial paper program were $46,984,000,
$16,324,000 and $25,069,000, respectively with corresponding effective interest
rates of 8.0%, 7.9% and 4.6% including commitment fees. The maximum amounts
outstanding at any month-end were $79,450,000, $47,450,000 and $46,800,000
during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable are pledged as
collateral to secure its $50 million, daily valued commercial paper program. The
Company has sufficient patient receivables to support a larger program, and upon
the mutual consent of the Company and the participating lending institutions,
the commitment can be increased. A fee of .76% is required on this $50 million
commitment. Outstanding amounts of commercial paper that can be refinanced
through available borrowings under the Company's revolving credit agreement are
classified as long-term.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company had one interest rate swap agreement with
a notional principal amount of $10 million. This agreement calls for the payment
of interest at a fixed rate by the Company in return for payment of a variable
rate interest by a commercial bank. This swap effectively fixes the Company's
interest rate on $10 million of its floating rate debt at 9.015%. The interest
rate swap expires in March, 1996. The effective interest rate on the Company's
revolving credit, demand notes and commercial paper program including the
interest rate swap expense was 8.4%, 16.1% and 13.9% during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Additional interest expense recorded as a result of the Company's
hedging activity was $209,000, $1,981,000 and $3,160,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of
non-performance by the counterparty to the interest rate swap agreement. This
counterparty is a major financial institution which is rated AA by Moody's
Investors Service and the Company does not anticipate nonperformance. The cost
to terminate the swap obligation at December 31, 1995 and 1994, was
approximately $113,000 and $151,000, respectively.
 
     Covenants relating to long-term debt require maintenance of a minimum net
worth, specified debt to total capital, debt to EBITDA and fixed charge coverage
ratios. Covenants also limit the Company's ability to incur additional senior
debt and to pay cash dividends and repurchase its shares and limit capital
expenditures, among other restrictions. Management believes the Company is in
compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 1995.
 
     The fair value of the Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1995 was
approximately $247,302,000.
 
     Aggregate maturities follow:
 

 
4) COMMON STOCK
 
     During 1994 and 1993, the Company repurchased 509,800 and 224,800 shares of
Class B Common Stock, respectively, at an average purchase price of $25.79 and
$14.39 per share, respectively, or an aggregate of approximately $13.2 million
and $3.2 million, respectively. All repurchases during 1994 were made subsequent
to March 1, 1994. The Company's ability to repurchase its shares is limited by
long-term debt
 

 
covenants to $50 million plus 50% of cumulative net income since March, 1994.
Under the terms of these covenants, the Company had the ability to repurchase an
additional $79.4 million of its Common Stock as of December 31, 1995. The
repurchased shares are treated as retired.
 
     At December 31, 1995 3,044,843 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved
for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock
outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common
Stock, and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D
Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common
Stock.
 
     In 1994, the Company adopted a Stock Compensation Plan under which up to
50,000 Class B Common Shares may be granted to key employees, consultants and
independent contractors, but not to officers or directors. The Plan will
terminate on November 16, 2004, unless terminated sooner by the Board. In 1994,
1,800 shares were granted under this plan.
 
     Under the terms of the Stock Bonus Plan adopted in 1992, eligible employees
may elect to receive all or part of their annual bonuses in shares of restricted
stock (the "Bonus Shares"). Those electing to receive Bonus Shares also receive
additional restricted shares in an amount equal to 20% of their Bonus Shares
(the "Premium Shares"). Restrictions on one-half of the Bonus Shares and
one-half of the Premium Shares lapse after one year and the restrictions on the
remaining shares lapse after two years. The Company has reserved 150,000 shares
of Class B Common Stock for this plan and has issued 72,658 shares at December
31, 1995.
 
     Under the terms of the Stock Ownership Plan, eligible employees may
purchase shares of Class B Common Stock directly from the Company at the market
price. The Company will loan each eligible employee an amount equal to 90% of
the purchase price for the shares. The loans, which are partially recourse to
the employee, bear interest at the applicable Federal rate and are due five
years from the purchase date. Shares purchased under this plan are restricted
from sale or transfer. Restrictions on one-half of the shares lapse after one
year and restrictions on the remaining shares lapse after two years. The Company
has reserved 100,000 shares of Class B Common Stock for this plan. As of
December 31, 1995, 34,750 shares were sold under the terms of this plan.
 
     The Company also has a Restricted Stock Purchase Plan which allows eligible
participants to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at par value, subject to
certain restrictions. Under the terms of this plan, 300,000 shares of Class B
Common Stock have been reserved for purchase by officers, key employees and
consultants. The restrictions lapse at various dates, as determined by the Board
of Directors, ranging from six months to five years from the date of purchase.
The Company has issued 184,513 shares under this plan, of which 46,674, 41,336
and 45,000 became fully vested during 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
Compensation expense, based on the difference between the market price on the
date of purchase and par value, is being amortized over the restriction period
and was $415,089 in 1995, $148,000 in 1994 and $240,000 in 1993.
 
     Effective January 1, 1996, the Company adopted a Stock Purchase Plan,
subject to shareholder approval, which allows eligible employees to purchase
shares of Class B Common Stock at a ten percent discount. The maximum number of
shares of stock that can be issued under the plan is 400,000.
 
     Stock options to purchase Class B Common Stock have been granted to
officers, key employees and directors of the Company under various plans. During
1994 and 1995 the Board of Directors and shareholders, respectively, approved a
600,000 share increase in the reserve for Class B Common Stock available for
grant, pursuant to the terms of the 1992 Stock Option Plan. Also during 1995,
subject to shareholder approval, the Board of Directors approved a 500,000 share
increase in the reserve for Class B Common Stock available for grant pursuant to
the terms of the 1992 Stock Option Plan. All stock options were granted with an
exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of the grant. Options
are exercisable ratably over a four year period beginning one year after the
date of the grant. The options expire five years after the date of the grant.
 

 
     Information with respect to these options is summarized as follows:
 

 
     At December 31, 1995, 497,225 shares were available for grant. At December
31, 1995, options for 222,125 shares of Class B Common Stock with an aggregate
purchase price of $4,023,852 (average of $18.12 per share) were exercisable.
 
     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." The Statement encourages a
fair value based method of accounting for employee stock options and similar
equity instruments, which generally would result in the recording of additional
compensation expense in an entity's financial statements. The Statement also
allows an entity to continue to account for stock-based employee using the
intrinsic value based method in APB Opinion No. 25. The Company intends to
continue its accounting for equity instruments using APB No. 25. As a result,
beginning in 1996, the Company will be required to make pro forma disclosures of
net income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method of
accounting had been applied.
 
5) INCOME TAXES
 
     Components of income tax expense are as follows:
 

 
     The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," (SFAS
109). Under SFAS 109, deferred taxes are required to be classified based on the
financial statement classification of the related assets and liabilities which
give rise to temporary differences. The net effect of the impact of the 1993 tax
law changes on the current and deferred tax provisions was immaterial.
 

 
     Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The
components of deferred taxes are as follows:
 

 
     A reconciliation between the Federal statutory rate and the effective tax
rate is a follows:
 

 
     In 1995 and 1994, the Company reviewed its deferred state tax balances and
as a result reduced its tax provision by $390,000 in each year. The net deferred
tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows:
 

 
     The assets and liabilities classified as current relate primarily to the
allowance for uncollectible patient accounts and the current portion of the
temporary differences related to self-insurance reserves and the change in
accounting method. Under SFAS 109, a valuation allowance is required when it is
more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized. Realization is dependent on generating sufficient future taxable
income. Although realization in not assured, management believes it is more
likely than not that all the deferred tax assets will be realized. Accordingly,
the Company has not provided a valuation allowance. The amount of the deferred
tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced if estimates of
future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced.
 
6) LEASE COMMITMENTS
 
     Certain of the Company's hospital and medical office facilities and
equipment are held under operating or capital leases which expire through 2013
(See Note 8). Certain of these leases also contain provisions allowing
 

 
the Company to purchase the leased assets during the term or at the expiration
of the lease at fair market value. A summary of property under capital lease
follows:
 

 
     Future minimum rental payments under lease commitments with a term of more
than one year as of December 31, 1995, are as follows:
 

 
     Capital lease obligations of $4,961,000, $4,654,000 and $5,371,000 in 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively, were incurred when the Company entered into capital
leases for new equipment.
 
7) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     Most of the Company's subsidiaries are self-insured for general liability
risks for claims limited to $5 million per occurrence and for professional
liability risks for claims limited to $25 million per occurrence. Coverage in
excess of these limits up to $100 million is maintained with major insurance
carriers. Since 1993, certain of the Company's subsidiaries, including one of
its larger acute care facilities, have purchased general and professional
liability occurrence policies with commercial insurers. These policies include
coverage up to $25 million per occurrence for general and professional liability
risks.
 
     As of December 1995 and 1994, the reserve for professional and general
liability risks was $67.2 million and $62.4 million, respectively, of which
$22.8 million and $11.0 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively, is included in
current liabilities. Self-insurance reserves are based upon actuarially
determined estimates. These estimates are based on historical information along
with certain assumptions about future events. Changes in assumptions for such
things as medical costs as well as changes in actual experience could cause
these estimates to change in the near term.
 
     Effective January 1, 1996, the Company's self-insured subsidiaries
purchased general and professional liability insurance coverage for a three year
term with a commercial insurer. These policies include coverage for claims in
excess of $5 million and limited to $25 million per occurrence and have an
unlimited aggregate.
 
     The Company has outstanding letters of credit totalling $20.8 million
related to the Company's self-insurance programs ($10.8 million), as support for
various debt instruments ($1.3 million) and as support for a loan guarantee for
an unaffiliated party ($8.7 million). The Company has also guaranteed
approximately $1.1 million of loans.
 

 
     The Company is committed to invest at least an additional $30 million, over
a ten year period, to renovate the existing facility and construct an additional
facility related to its 1994 acquisition of a 112-bed acute care hospital
located in Edinburg, Texas (See Note 2). The Company has also agreed to
construct a medical complex, including a 129-bed acute care facility, in
Summerlin, Nevada for a total cost of approximately $60 million.
 
     The Company signed a letter of intent to acquire a 360-bed acute care
hospital located in Amarillo, Texas. The closing of this transaction, which is
expected to be completed during the second quarter of 1996, is subject to a
number of conditions. Cash consideration is expected to approximate $120
million.
 
     The Company estimates the cost to complete major construction projects in
progress at December 31, 1995 will approximate $45.8 million.
 
     The Company has entered into a long-term contract with a third party to
provide certain data processing services for its acute care and psychiatric
hospitals. This contract expires in 2002.
 
     Various suits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business are
pending against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome of such
claims and litigation will not materially affect the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.
 
8) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company held approximately 8% of the outstanding
shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the "Trust"). Certain officers
and directors of the Company are also officers and/or Directors of the Trust.
The Company accounts for its investment in the Trust using the equity method of
accounting. The Company's pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $1,052,000,
$1,095,000 and $757,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, and is included in
net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. The carrying
value of this investment at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was $8,468,000 and
$8,404,000, respectively, and is included in other assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. The market value of this investment at December 31,
1995 and 1994 was $12,489,000 and $11,261,000, respectively.
 
     During 1993, pursuant to the terms of its lease with the Trust, the Company
purchased the real property of a 48-bed psychiatric hospital located in Texas
for $3.2 million. The real property of this hospital was previously leased by
the Company and base rental payments continued under the existing lease until
the date of sale. Operations at this hospital were discontinued during the first
quarter of 1992, however, the facility is currently being utilized for
outpatient services at one of the Company's acute care hospitals. Also during
1993, the Company sold to the Trust certain real estate assets of a 134-bed
hospital located in Illinois for approximately $1.9 million. These assets
consisted of additions and improvements made to the facility by the Company
since the sale of the major portion of the real estate assets to the Trust in
1986. The operations of this facility were sold during 1993 to an operator
unaffiliated with the Company.
 
     As of December 31, 1995, the Company leased seven hospital facilities from
the Trust with initial terms expiring in 1999 through 2003. These leases contain
up to six 5-year renewal options. Future minimum lease payments to the Trust are
included in Note 6. The terms of the lease provide that in the event the Company
discontinues operations at the leased facility for more than one year, the
Company is obligated to offer a substitute property. If the Trust does not
accept the substitute property offered, the Company is obligated to purchase the
leased facility back from the Trust at a price equal to the greater of its then
fair market value or the original purchase price paid by the Trust. During 1995,
in exchange for the real estate assets of a 126-bed acute care hospital divested
by the Company during the year, the Company exchanged with the Trust substitute
properties consisting of additional real estate assets owned by the Company but
related to three acute care facilities owned by the Trust and operated by the
Company (See Note 2). Total rent expense under these operating leases was
$16,000,000 in 1995, $15,700,000 in 1994 and $16,600,000 in 1993. The Company
received an advisory fee of $953,000 in 1995, $909,000 in 1994 and $880,000 in
1993 from the Trust for investment and administrative services provided under a
contractual agreement which is included in net revenues in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income.
 

 
     A member of the Company's Board of Directors is a partner in the law firm
used by the Company as its principal outside counsel. Another member of the
Company's Board of Directors is a managing director of one of the underwriters
who performed investment banking services related to the Senior Notes issued
during 1995.
 
9) OTHER NONRECURRING CHARGES
 
     Changes in third party payment methods, advances in medical technologies,
legislative and regulatory initiatives at the Federal and state levels along
with increased competition from other providers have impacted operating margins
at the Company's facilities in recent years. These industry conditions have
adversely impacted certain of the Company's specialized facilities and certain
of the Company's smaller facilities in more competitive markets.
 
     The increased penetration of managed care into the chemical dependency
segment of the behavioral health services market, increased competition from
acute care providers seeking to expand their service lines and the continuing
shift to partial hospitalization and outpatient treatment programs have resulted
in significant reduction in admissions and patient days at the Company's two
chemical dependency facilities. Changes in CHAMPUS regulations and the
increasing influence of managed care have led to shorter lengths of stay for
patients at the Company's two residential treatment centers. These factors have
led management to conclude that there has been a permanent impairment in the
carrying value of these four facilities in the behavioral health services
division.
 
     Increased competition and penetration of managed care in the two geographic
markets where three of the Company's ambulatory treatment centers are located
have led management to conclude that there has been a permanent impairment in
the carrying value those facilities.
 
     In conjunction with the development of the Company's operating plan and
1996 budget, management assessed the current competitive position of these
facilities and estimated future cash flows expected from these facilities. As a
result, the Company recorded a $14.2 million pre-tax nonrecurring charge in the
1995 consolidated statement of income related primarily to the write-down of the
carrying value of certain intangible and tangible assets at these facilities. In
measuring the impairment loss, the Company estimated fair value by discounting
expected future cash flows from each facility using the Company's internal
hurdle rate.
 
10) PENSION PLAN
 
     The Company maintains a contributory and non-contributory retirement plan
for eligible employees. The non-contributory plan is a defined benefit pension
plan which covers employees of one of the Company's subsidiaries. The benefits
are based on years of service and the employee's highest compensation for any
five years of employment. The Company's funding policy is to contribute annually
at least the minimum amount that should be funded in accordance with the
provisions of ERISA.
 
     The plan's funded status and amounts recognized in the Company's balance
sheet as of December 31, 1995 are as follows:
 

 

 
     Significant actuarial assumptions used in measuring benefit obligations and
the expected return on plan assets at December 31, 1995 are as follows:
 

 
Pension expense related to this plan is not material to the consolidated
financial statements.
 
11) QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
     The following tables summarize the Company's quarterly financial data for
the two years ended December 31, 1995.
 

 
     Net revenues in 1995 include $12.6 million of additional revenues received
from special Medicaid reimbursement programs. Of this amount, $3.8 million was
recorded in each of the first and second quarters, $3.1 million in the third
quarter and $1.9 million in the fourth quarter. These programs are scheduled to
terminate in August, 1996. These amounts were recorded in the periods that the
Company met all of the requirements to be entitled to these reimbursements. The
second quarter results include a $2.7 million pre-tax charge related to the
Company's divestiture of two acute care hospitals in connection with the
acquisition of the acute care hospital located in Aiken, South Carolina (See
Note 2). The fourth quarter results include a $5.3 million gain related to the
Company's divestiture of an acute care hospital. The fourth quarter results also
include a $14.2 million pre-tax charge for an impairment loss at certain
facilities (See Note 9).
 

 
     Net revenues in 1994 include $12.4 million of additional revenues received
from special Medicaid reimbursement programs. Of this amount, $3.0 million was
recorded in each of the first and second quarters, $3.1 million in the third
quarter and $3.3 million in the fourth quarter. Net revenues in the fourth
quarter also include $3.0 million of proceeds related to the Company's
previously disposed UK operations. The first quarter operating results also
include approximately $1.3 million of expenses related to the disposition of a
non-strategic business. The second quarter results include a $2.8 million
write-down recorded against the book value of the real property of a psychiatric
hospital owned by the Company and leased to an unaffiliated third party, which
is currently in default under the terms of the lease. Also included in operating
expenses during the second quarter is a $1.1 million favorable adjustment made
to reduce the Company's workers' compensation reserves. The fourth quarter
results include a $1.3 million write-down recorded against the book value of the
real property of a psychiatric hospital owned by the Company and for which its
lease was terminated by an unaffiliated third party and a $4.3 million charge
related to the anticipated disposition of two acute care hospitals (See Note 2).
 

 
                UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 

 

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 


