
10-K
FORM 10-K




================================================================================
                                  FORM 10-K 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                            Washington, D.C. 20549 
                                    ------ 

(MARK ONE) 
           [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED) 
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 
                                      OR 
          | | TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED) 
                For the transition period from ______to ______ 
                         Commission File No. 0-10454 
                       UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. 
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

           Delaware                             23-2077891      
  (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer 
   incorporation or organization)          Identification Number) 
    UNIVERSAL CORPORATE CENTER 
      367 South Gulph Road 
  King of Prussia, Pennsylvania                   19406   
(Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)   
                                 
         Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 768-3300 
                                    ------ 
         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
       Title of each Class              Name of exchange on which registered
Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value          New York Stock Exchange

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
                     Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value 
                            (Title of each Class) 
                                    ------ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to be 
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                            Yes___X___  No ______ 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. | | 

The number of shares of the registrant's Class A Common Stock, $.01 par 
value, Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, Class C Common Stock, $.01 par 
value, and Class D Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of February 
15, 1995, was 1,090,527, 12,717,959, 109,622, and 22,487, respectively. 

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates at February 
15, 1995 was $318,865,646.20. (For purpose of this calculation, it was 
assumed that Class A, Class C, and Class D Common Stock, which are not traded 
but are convertible share-for-share into Class B Common Stock, have the same 
market value as Class B Common Stock.) 

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 1995 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1994 (incorporated by reference 
under Part III). 

================================================================================

                                    PART I 


ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

   Universal Health Services, Inc., (together with its subsidiaries, the 
"Company" or "UHS"), formed in 1978, is engaged principally in owning and 
operating acute care hospitals, behavioral health centers, ambulatory surgery 
centers and radiation oncology centers. As of December 31, 1994, the Company 
operates 29 hospitals with an aggregate of 3,667 licensed beds. Of these 
facilities, 15 are general acute care hospitals and 14 are psychiatric care 
facilities (two of which are substance abuse facilities). In addition, the 
Company, as part of its Ambulatory Treatment Centers Division, owns, in 
partnership with physicians, and operates or manages surgery and radiation 
therapy centers located in various states. 


   UHS has also entered into other specialized medical service arrangements, 
laboratory services, mobile Computerized Tomography (CT) and Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI) services, preferred provider organization 
arrangements, health maintenance organization contracts, medical office 
building leasing, construction management services and real estate management 
and administrative services. 

   UHS provides capital resources as well as a variety of management services 
to its facilities, including central purchasing, data processing, finance and 
control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, 
administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations. Each of 
the hospitals and ambulatory treatment centers currently owned by the Company 
provides the medical and surgical, psychiatric, or ambulatory services 
typically available in such facilities. The surgery centers provide a 
cost-effective alternative to inpatient care for the performance of minor 
surgeries. Each facility is managed on a day-to-day basis by a managing 
director employed by the Company. In addition, a Board of Governors, 
including members of the facility's medical staff, governs the medical, 
professional and ethical practices at each facility. 

   The Company selectively seeks opportunities to expand its base of 
operations by acquiring, constructing or leasing additional hospital 
facilities. Such expansion may provide the Company with access to new markets 
and new health care delivery capabilities. The Company also seeks to increase 
the operating revenues and profitability of owned hospitals by the 
introduction of new services, improvement of existing services, physician 
recruitment and the application of financial and operational controls. 
Pressures to contain health care costs and technological developments 
allowing more procedures to be performed on an outpatient basis have led 
payors to demand a shift to ambulatory or outpatient care wherever possible. 
The Company is responding to this trend by emphasizing the expansion of 
outpatient services. In addition, in response to cost containment pressures, 
the Company intends to implement programs designed to improve financial 
performance and efficiency while continuing to provide quality care, 
including more efficient use of professional and paraprofessional staff, 
monitoring and adjusting staffing levels and equipment usage, improving 
patient management and reporting procedures and implementing more efficient 
billing and collection procedures. The Company also continues to examine its 
facilities and to dispose of those facilities which it believes do not have 
the potential to contribute to the Company's growth or operating strategy. 

   The Company is involved in continual development activities. Applications 
to state health planning agencies to add new services in existing hospitals 
are currently on file in several states which require certificates of need 
(e.g., Georgia and Illinois). Although the Company expects that some of these 
applications will result in the addition of new facilities or services to the 
Company's operations, no assurances can be made for ultimate success by the 
Company in these efforts. 

   The Company serves as advisor to Universal Health Realty Income Trust 
("UHT"), which leases to the Company the real property of 8 facilities 
operated by the Company. In addition, UHT holds interests in properties owned 
by unrelated companies. The Company receives a fee for its advisory services 
based on the value of UHT's assets. In addition, certain of the directors and 
officers of the Company serve as trustees and officers of UHT. As of February 
15, 1995, the Company owns 7.7% of UHT's outstanding shares and has an option 
to purchase UHT shares in the future at fair market value to enable it to 
maintain a 5% interest. 




RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 


   After several years of following its strategy of consolidation to focus on 
its core operations and selective expansion in areas in which it believed 
there are opportunities for growth, the Company was positioned to take 
advantage of several acquisition and growth opportunities in 1994. The 
Company acquired Edinburg Hospital, a 112-bed facility in Edinburg, Texas, 
which it will replace with a state of the art facility while converting the 
existing facility to a skilled nursing and sub-acute care facility. The 
Company entered into an agreement to exchange the operations and fixed assets 
of Westlake Medical Center, a 126-bed acute care facility in Westlake, 
California, and Dallas Family Hospital, a 104-bed hospital in Dallas, Texas, 
in addition to a cash payment, for Aiken Regional Medical Centers, a 225-bed 
medical center in Aiken, South Carolina. This transaction is expected to be 
consummated in the second quarter of 1995. In addition, the Company agreed to 
acquire Manatee Memorial Hospital, a 512-bed acute care hospital located in 
Manatee, Florida. The closing is expected to occur in the third quarter of 
1995. Pending closing, the Company is managing the facility for its current 
owners. 

   In addition, the Company is developing, along with the participation of 
the Howard Hughes Corporation, a medical complex including a 120-bed 
hospital, ambulatory surgery center, medical office building and diagnostic 
center in the western suburbs of Las Vegas, Nevada. 

   In 1994, the Company continued to add to its Ambulatory Treatment Centers 
Division and acquired, in partnership with physicians, additional 
free-standing ambulatory surgery centers located in Palm Springs, California 
and Corona, California. Also, as part of this Division, the Company acquired, 
or developed, radiation oncology centers in Danville, Kentucky; Frankfort, 
Kentucky; Bowling Green, Kentucky; Glasgow, Kentucky; Jeffersonville, 
Indiana; Madison, Indiana; and Auburn, Washington. 

   The Company also selectively expanded its operations at certain of its 
existing facilities: McAllen Medical Center in McAllen, Texas, opened a 
free-standing radiation treatment center; River Parishes Hospital in LaPlace, 
Louisiana (1) completed renovation of its emergency room and its operating 
rooms; and (2) began construction of a 30,000 square foot medical office 
building which is scheduled for completion in mid-August 1995; Auburn General 
Hospital in Auburn, Washington, opened its new medical office building and 
parking garage. 


BED UTILIZATION AND OCCUPANCY RATES 

   The following table shows the bed utilization and occupancy rates for the 
hospitals operated by the Company for the years indicated, excluding 
information relating to hospitals no longer owned by the Company as of 
December 31, 1994 and including the information for a 112-bed acute care 
hospital located in Edinburg, Texas which was acquired by the Company during 
1994. Accordingly, the information is presented on a basis different from 
that used in preparing the historical financial information included in this 
Report. 



- ------
(1) "Average Available Beds" is the number of beds which are actually in service
    at any given time for immediate patient use with the necessary equipment and
    staff available for patient care. A hospital may have appropriate licenses
    for more beds than are in service for a number of reasons, including lack of
    demand, incomplete construction, and anticipation of future needs.

(2) "Patient Days" is the aggregate sum for all patients of the number of days
    that hospital care is provided to each patient.

(3) "Occupancy Rate" is calculated by dividing average patient days (total
    patient days divided by the total number of days in the period) by the
    number of average beds, either available or licensed.




   The number of patient days of a hospital is affected by a number of 
factors, including the number of physicians using the hospital, changes in 
the number of beds, the composition and size of the population of the 
community in which the hospital is located, general and local economic 
conditions, variations in local medical and surgical practices and the degree 
of outpatient use of the hospital services. Current industry trends in 
utilization and occupancy have been significantly affected by changes in 
reimbursement policies of third party payors. A continuation of such industry 
trends could have a material adverse impact upon the Company's future 
operating performance. The Company has experienced growth in outpatient 
utilization over the past several years. The Company is unable to predict the 
rate of growth and resulting impact on the Company's future revenues because 
it is dependent upon developments in medical technologies and physician 
practice patterns, both of which are outside of the Company's control. The 
Company is also unable to predict the extent which other industry trends will 
continue or accelerate. 

SOURCES OF REVENUE 

   The Company receives payment for services rendered from private insurers, 
including managed care plans, the Federal government under the Medicare 
program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and 
directly from patients. Most of the company's hospitals are certified as 
providers of Medicare and Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental 
authorities. The requirements for certification are subject to change, and, 
in order to remain qualified for such programs, it may be necessary for the 
Company to make changes from time to time in its facilities, equipment, 
personnel and services. Although the Company intends to continue in such 
programs, there is no assurance that it will continue to qualify for 
participation. 

   The sources of the Company's hospital revenues are charges related to the 
services provided by the hospitals and their staffs, such as radiology, 
operating rooms, pharmacy, physiotherapy and laboratory procedures, and basic 
charges for the hospital room and related services such as general nursing 
care, meals, maintenance and housekeeping. Hospital revenues depend upon the 
occupancy for inpatient routine services, the extent to which ancillary 
services and therapy programs are ordered by physicians and provided to 
patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated 
payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for 
inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of bed occupied (e.g., 
medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the geographic location 
of the hospital. 

   Valley Hospital Medical Center in Las Vegas, Nevada contributed 19%, 16% 
and 16% of the Company's net revenues and 35%, 32% and 32% of the Company's 
earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, lease and 
rental expense and non-recurring transactions (EBITDAR), for the three years 
ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, excluding the effect of 
the special Medicaid reimbursements received at one of the Company's Texas 
acute care hospitals of $12.4 million, $13.5 million and $29.8 million for 
the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. McAllen 
Medical Center in McAllen, Texas contributed 21%, 18% and 16% of the 
Company's net revenues and 35%, 32% and 24% of the Company's EBITDAR, for the 
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, excluding the 
special Medicaid reimbursement increases mentioned above. 

   The following table shows approximate percentages of gross revenue derived 
by the Company's hospitals owned as of December 31, 1994 since their 
respective dates of acquisition by the Company from third party sources and 
from all other sources during the five years ended December 31, 1994. 






REGULATION AND OTHER FACTORS 

   Within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, 
there are substantial areas subject to administrative rulings, 
interpretations and discretion which may affect payments made under either or 
both of such programs and reimbursement is subject to audit and review by 
third party payors. Management believes that adequate provision has been made 
for any adjustments that might result therefrom. 

   The Federal government makes payments to participating hospitals under its 
Medicare program based on various formulae. The Company's general acute care 
hospitals are subject to a prospective payment system ("PPS"). PPS pays 
hospitals a predetermined amount per diagnostic related group ("DRG") based 
upon a hospital's location and the patient's diagnosis. 

   The deficit-reduction legislation passed by Congress in 1987 limits the 
increases in PPS reimbursement based on the rate of inflation and the 
location of hospitals. Psychiatric hospitals, which are exempt from PPS, are 
cost reimbursed by the Medicare program, but are subject to a per discharge 
limitation, calculated based on the hospital's first full year in the 
Medicare program. Capital related costs are exempt from this limitation. 

   On August 30, 1991, the Health Care Financing Administration issued final 
Medicare regulations establishing a prospective payment methodology for 
inpatient hospital capital-related costs. These regulations apply to 
hospitals which are reimbursed based upon the prospective payment system and 
took effect for cost years beginning on or after October 1, 1991. For each of 
the Company's hospitals, the new methodology began on January 1, 1992. 

   The regulations provide for the use of a 10-year transition period in 
which a blend of the old and new capital payment provisions will be utilized. 
One of two methodologies will apply during the 10-year transition period: if 
the hospital's hospital-specific capital rate exceeds the federal capital 
rate, the hospital will be paid on the basis of a "hold harmless" 
methodology, which is a blend of actual cost reimbursement and a 
prospectively determined national federal capital rate; or, with limited 
exceptions, if the hospital-specific rate is below the federal capital rate, 
the hospital will receive payments based upon a "fully prospective" 
methodology, which is a blend of the hospital's actual base year capital rate 
and a prospectively determined national federal capital rate. Each hospital's 
hospital-specific rate was determined based upon allowable capital costs 
incurred during the "base year", which, for all of the Company's hospitals, 
is the year ended December 31, 1990. All of the Company's hospitals are paid 
under the "hold harmless" methodology except for one hospital, which is paid 
under the "fully prospective" methodology. 

   Within certain limits, a hospital can manage its costs, and, to the extent 
this is done effectively, a hospital may benefit from the DRG system. 
However, many hospital operating costs are incurred in order to satisfy 
licensing laws, standards of the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of 
Healthcare Organizations and quality of care concerns. In addition, hospital 
costs are affected by the level of patient acuity, occupancy rates and local 
physician practice patterns, including length of stay judgments and number 
and type of tests and procedures ordered. A hospital's ability to control or 
influence these factors which affect costs is, in many cases, limited. 

   There have been additional proposals either proposed by the Administration 
or in Congress to reduce the funds available for the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs and to change the method by which hospitals are reimbursed for 
services provided to Medicare and Medicaid patients, including free indigent 
care. In addition, state governments may, in the future, reduce funds 
available under the Medicaid programs which they fund in part or impose 
additional restrictions on the utilization of hospital services. A number of 
legislative initiatives were proposed in 1994, and may be proposed again in 
1995, which if enacted would result in major changes in the health care 
system, nationally and/or at the state level. Several of these proposals 
would impose price controls on hospitals, require that all businesses offer 
health insurance to their employees, expand health insurance coverage to 
those presently uninsured, and limit the rate of increase in spending for 
Medicare and other health care costs as part of overall deficit reduction 
measures. The Company is unable to predict which bill, if any, will be 
adopted, or the ultimate impact its adoption would have on the Company; 
however, new legislation, if passed, could have a material adverse effect on 
the Company's future revenues. 

   In addition to federal health reform efforts, several states have adopted 
or are considering health care reform legislation. Several states are 
planning to consider wider use of managed care for their Medicaid populations 
and providing coverage for some people who presently are uninsured. A number 
of other states are considering the enactment of managed care initiatives 
designed to provide low-cost coverage. 





   The Company currently operates two psychiatric hospitals with a total of 
186 beds in Massachusetts, which has mandated hospital rate-setting. The 
Company also operates three hospitals containing an aggregate of 378 beds, 
and manages one hospital with 512 beds, in Florida that are subject to a 
mandated form of rate-setting if increases in hospital revenues per admission 
exceed certain target percentages. The Company does not believe that such 
regulation has had a material adverse effect on its operations. 

   Pursuant to Federal legislation, in general, the Federal government is 
required to match state funds applied to state Medicaid programs. Several 
states have initiated programs under which certain hospital providers are 
taxed to generate Medicaid funds which must be matched by the Federal 
government. New legislation passed by Congress on November 27, 1991, limits 
each state's use of provider taxes in 1994. State programs involving provider 
taxes in which UHS' hospitals are participants are in place in Texas, 
Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada and Washington. Included in the Company's 1994 
financial results is revenue attributable to these programs, some of which 
expired in 1994. The Company cannot predict whether the remaining programs 
will continue beyond the scheduled termination dates. 

   Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA"), enacted by 
Congress in late 1993, and effective January 1, 1995, physicians are 
precluded from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients for a wide range of 
services where the physician has an ownership interest or investment interest 
in, or compensation arrangement with, an entity that provides such services. 
The legislation includes certain exceptions including, for example, where the 
referring physician has an ownership interest in a hospital as a whole or an 
ambulatory surgery center if the physician performs services at the center. 
In addition, all Medicare providers and suppliers are subject to certain 
reporting and disclosure requirements. 

   In 1991, 1992 and 1993, the Inspector General of the Department of Health 
and Human Services ("HHS") issued regulations. These regulations provide for 
"safe harbors"; if an arrangement or transaction meets each of the 
stipulations established for a particular safe harbor, the arrangement will 
not be subject to challenge by the Inspector General. If an arrangement does 
not meet the safe harbor criteria, it will be analyzed under its particular 
facts and circumstances to determine whether it violates the Medicare 
anti-kickback statute which prohibits, in general, fraudulent and abusive 
practices, and enforcement action may be taken by the Inspector General. In 
addition to the investment interests safe harbor, other safe harbors include 
space rental, equipment rental, personal service/management contracts, sales 
of a physician practice, referral services, warranties, employees, discounts 
and group purchasing arrangements, among others. 

   The Company does not anticipate that either the OBRA provisions or the 
safe harbor regulations will have material adverse effects upon its 
operations. 

   Several states, including Florida and Nevada, have passed new legislation 
which limits physician ownership in medical facilities providing imaging 
services, rehabilitation services, laboratory testing, physical therapy and 
other services. This legislation is not expected to significantly affect the 
Company's operations. 

   All hospitals are subject to compliance with various federal, state and 
local statutes and regulations and receive periodic inspection by state 
licensing agencies to review standards of medical care, equipment and 
cleanliness. The Company's hospitals must comply with the licensing 
requirements of federal, state and local health agencies, as well as the 
requirements of municipal building codes, health codes and local fire 
departments. In granting and renewing licenses, a department of health 
considers, among other things, the physical buildings and equipment, the 
qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the quality 
of care and continuing compliance with the laws and regulations relating to 
the operation of the facilities. State licensing of facilities is a 
prerequisite to certification under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
Various other licenses and permits are also required in order to dispense 
narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate 
certain equipment. All the Company's eligible hospitals have been accredited 
by the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. 





   The Social Security Act and regulations thereunder contain numerous 
provisions which affect the scope of Medicare coverage and the basis for 
reimbursement of Medicare providers. Among other things, this law provides 
that in states which have executed an agreement with the Secretary of the 
Department of Health and Human Services (the "Secretary"), Medicare 
reimbursement may be denied with respect to depreciation, interest on 
borrowed funds and other expenses in connection with capital expenditures 
which have not received prior approval by a designated state health planning 
agency. Additionally, many of the states in which the Company's hospitals are 
located have enacted legislation requiring certificates of need ("CON") as a 
condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, 
modernization or initiation of major new services. Failure to obtain 
necessary state approval can result in the inability to complete an 
acquisition or change of ownership, the imposition of civil or, in some 
cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive Medicare or Medicaid 
reimbursement or the revocation of a facility's license. The Company has not 
experienced and does not expect to experience any material adverse effects 
from those requirements. 

   Health planning statues and regulatory mechanisms are in place in many 
states in which the Company operates. These provisions govern the 
distribution of health care services, the number of new and replacement 
hospital beds, administer required state CON laws, contain health care costs, 
and meet the priorities established therein. Significant CON reforms have 
been proposed in a number of states, including increases in the capital 
spending thresholds and exemptions of various services from review 
requirements. The Company is unable to predict the impact of these changes 
upon its operations. 

   Federal regulations provide that admissions and utilization of facilities 
by Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed in order to insure 
efficient utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations 
require Peer Review Organizations ("PROs") to review the appropriateness of 
Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care 
provided, the validity of DRG classifications and the appropriateness of 
cases of extraordinary length of stay. PROs may deny payment for services 
provided, assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to HHS that a 
provider that is in substantial non-compliance with the standards of the PRO 
be excluded from participating in the Medicare program. The Company has 
contracted with PROs in each state where it does business as to the scope of 
such functions. 

   The Company's health care operations generate medical waste that must be 
disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, 
rules and regulations. In 1988, Congress passed the Medical Waste Tracking 
Act. Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, now face substantial 
penalties for improper arrangements regarding disposal of medical waste, 
including civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal 
penalties of $150,000 per day, imprisonment, and remedial costs. The 
comprehensive legislation establishes programs for medical waste treatment 
and disposal in designated states. The legislation also provides for sweeping 
inspection authority in the Environmental Protection Agency, including 
monitoring and testing. The Company believes that its disposal of such wastes 
is in compliance with all state and federal laws. 

MEDICAL STAFF AND EMPLOYEES 

   The Company's hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians who have been 
admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. With a few exceptions, 
physicians are not employees of the Company's hospitals and members of the 
medical staffs of the Company's hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of 
hospitals not owned by the Company and may terminate their affiliation with 
the Company's hospitals at any time. The Company's facilities had 
approximately 9,800 employees at December 31, 1994, of whom 7,400 were 
employed full-time. 

   At Valley Hospital Medical Center in Las Vegas, unionized employees belong 
to the Culinary Workers and Bartenders Union and the International Union of 
Operating Engineers. Registered nurses at Auburn General Hospital located in 
Washington State, are represented by the Washington State Nurses Association, 
and the practical nurses at Auburn are represented by the United Food and 
Commercial Workers. The Service Employees International Union, Local 6, 
purports to have perfected an affiliation with the LPNA. That affiliation is 
currently being challenged by Seattle area hospitals in Federal court. In 
addition, at Auburn, the technical employees are represented by the United 
Food and Commercial Workers, and the service employees are represented by the 
Service Employees International Union. The registered nurses, licensed 
practical nurses, certain technicians and therapists, and housekeeping 
employees at the Human Resource Institute in Boston are represented by the 
Service Employees International Union. All full-time and regular part-time 
professional employees of LaAmistad Residential Treatment Center in Maitland, 
Florida are represented by the United Nurses of Florida/United Health Care 
Employees Union. 




   The Company believes that its relations with its employees are 
satisfactory. 

COMPETITION 

   In most geographical areas in which the Company operates, there are other 
hospitals which provide services comparable to those offered by the Company's 
hospitals, some of which are owned by governmental agencies and supported by 
tax revenues, and others of which are owned by nonprofit corporations and may 
be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. 
Such support is not available to the Company's hospitals. Certain of the 
Company's competitors have greater financial resources, are better equipped 
and offer a broader range of services than the Company. In addition, certain 
hospitals which are located in the areas served by the Company are special 
service hospitals providing medical, surgical and psychiatric services that 
are not available at the company's or other general hospitals. The 
competitive position of a hospital is to a large degree dependent upon the 
number and quality of staff physicians. Although a physician may at any time 
terminate his or her affiliation with a hospital, the Company seeks to retain 
doctors of varied specializations on its hospital staffs and to attract other 
qualified doctors by improving facilities and maintaining high ethical and 
professional standards. The competitive position of a hospital is also 
affected by the presence of managed care organizations such as preferred 
provider organizations and health maintenance organizations and indemnity 
insurance programs in the hospital's service area. Such organizations 
normally require a discount from a hospital's established charges. Outpatient 
treatment and diagnostic facilities, outpatient surgical centers and 
freestanding ambulatory surgical centers also impact the health care 
marketplace. In recent years, competition among health care providers for 
patients has intensified as hospital occupancy rates in the United States 
have declined due to, among other things, regulatory and technological 
changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost containment 
pressures, a shift toward outpatient treatment and an increasing supply of 
physicians. The Company's strategies are designed, and management believes 
that its facilities are positioned, to be competitive under these changing 
circumstances. 

LIABILITY INSURANCE 

   The Company is self-insured for its general liability risks for claims 
limited to $5 million per occurrence and for its professional liability risks 
for claims limited to $25 million per occurrence. Coverage in excess of these 
limits up to $100 million is maintained with major insurance carriers. During 
1994 and 1993, the Company purchased a general and professional liability 
occurrence policy with a commercial insurer for one of its larger acute care 
facilities. This policy includes coverage up to $25 million per occurrence 
for general and professional liability risks. Although the Company feels that 
it currently has adequate insurance coverage, the commercial policies are 
limited to one-year terms and require annual renegotiation or replacement. 
The Company has no assurance that it will be able to maintain such insurance 
in the future on terms acceptable to the Company. 



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

   The executive officers of the Company, whose terms will expire at such 
time as their successors are elected, are as follows: 

        Name and Age                 Present Position with the Company 
- ---------------------------   --------------------------------------------- 
Alan B. Miller (57)  .......  Director, Chairman of the Board, President 
                                and Chief Executive Officer 
Kirk E. Gorman (44)  .......  Senior Vice President and 
                                Chief Financial Officer 
Richard C. Wright (47)  ....  Vice President 
Thomas J. Bender (42)  .....  Vice President 
Michael G. Servais (48)  ...  Vice President 
Steve G. Filton (37)  ......  Vice President and Controller 
Sidney Miller (68)  ........  Director and Secretary 

   Mr. Alan B. Miller has been Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company since its inception. Prior thereto, he was 
President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American 
Medicorp, Inc. 

   Mr. Gorman was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
in December 1992, and has served as Vice President and Treasurer of the 
Company since April 1987. From 1984 until then, he served as Senior Vice 
President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President of 
Mellon Bank, N.A. 

   Mr. Wright was elected Vice President of the Company in May 1986. He has 
served in various capacities with the Company since 1978, including Senior 
Vice President of its Acute Care Division since 1985. 

   Mr. Bender was elected Vice President of the Company in March 1988. He has 
served in various capacities with the Company since 1982, including 
responsibility for the Psychiatric Care Division since November 1985. 

   Mr. Filton was elected Vice President and Controller of the Company in 
November 1991, and had served as Director of Accounting and Control since 
July 1985. 

   Mr. Servais was elected Vice President of the Company in January 1994, and 
had served as Assistant Vice President of the Company since January 1993, and 
Group Director since December 1990. Prior thereto, he served as President of 
Jupiter Hospital Corporation, and Vice President of Operations of American 
Health Group International. 

   Mr. Sidney Miller has served as Secretary of the Company since 1990 and 
Director of the Company since 1978. He has served in various capacities with 
the Company, including Executive Vice President since 1983, Vice President 
since 1978, and Assistant to the President during 1993 and 1994. Prior 
thereto, he was Vice President-Financial Services and Control of American 
Medicorp, Inc. 


ITEM 2. Properties 

EXECUTIVE OFFICES 

   The Company owns an office building with 68,000 square feet available for 
use located on 11 acres of land in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. The Company 
currently uses approximately 40,000 square feet of office space in the 
building and the balance is leased to unrelated entities. 




Hospitals and Centers 

 






- ------ 
(1) Real property leased from UHT (see Item 1. Business). 
(2) Real property leased with an option to purchase. 
(3) General partnership interest in limited partnership. 
(4) Addictive disease facility. 
(5) General partnership and limited partnership interests in a limited 
    partnership. The real property is leased from third parties. 
(6) Includes Chalmette Hospital, a 114-bed rehabilitation facility, the real 
    property of which is leased from UHT. 
(7) Managed Hospital. The Company has agreed to acquire this facility. 
(8) Managed Facility. 
(9) The Company has entered into an agreement to exchange the operations and 
    fixed assets of Westlake Medical Center, a 126-bed acute care facility in 
    Westlake, California, and Dallas Family Hospital, a 104-bed hospital in 
    Dallas, Texas for Aiken Regional Medical Centers. The transaction is 
    expected to be consummated in the second quarter of 1995. 


   Some of these facilities are subject to mortgages, and substantially all 
the equipment located at these facilities is pledged as collateral to secure 
long-term debt. The Company owns or leases medical office buildings adjoining 
certain of its hospitals. 

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 

   The Company is subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of 
business, including those arising from care and treatment afforded at the 
Company's hospitals and is party to various other litigation. However, 
management believes the ultimate resolution of these pending proceedings will 
not have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

   Inapplicable. No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 to a vote of security holders. 




                                   PART II 
ITEM 5.Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 

   See Item 6, Selected Financial Data 

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 



- ------ 
(1) Amount includes non-cash capital lease obligations. 
(2) These prices are the high and low closing sales prices of the Company's 
    Class B Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange since June 
    7, 1991 and NASDAQ for all periods prior to June 7, 1991. Class A, C and D 
    Common Stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into Class B Common 
    Stock. 



   The 1994, 1993 and 1992 earnings per share and average number of shares 
outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the assumed conversion of the 
Company's convertible debentures. In April 1994, the Company redeemed the 
debentures which reduced the fully diluted number of shares outstanding by 
451,233. The common equivalent shares and the corresponding interest savings 
on the assumed conversion of the convertible debentures were not included in 
the 1991 or 1990 earnings per share computations because the effect was anti- 
dilutive. 

     



   Number of shareholders of record as of January 31, 1995 were as follows: 

- --------------------------- 
Class A Common            7 
Class B Common          608 
Class C Common            7 
Class D Common          345 
- --------------------------- 

ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial 
Condition 

              MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS 
                           AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

   Net revenues increased 3% ($21 million) to $782 million in 1994 and 4% 
($30 million) to $762 million in 1993. Increases in both periods resulted 
primarily from revenue growth at facilities owned during each of the last 
three years, and the acquisition and development of ambulatory treatment 
centers, net of the revenue effects of facilities sold during these periods. 
Net revenues at hospital facilities owned during all three periods increased 
by 6.7% ($46 million) in 1994 over 1993 and 7.2% ($47 million) in 1993 over 
1992, excluding the additional revenues received from the special Medicaid 
reimbursements received by one of the Company's acute care facilities which 
participates in the Texas Medical Assistance Program. Upon meeting certain 
conditions of participation and serving a disproportionately high share of 
the state's low income patients, the hospital became eligible and received 
additional reimbursements totalling $12.4 million in 1994, $13.5 million in 
1993 and $29.8 million in 1992 from the state's disproportionate share 
hospital fund. These programs are scheduled to terminate in August, 1995 and 
the Company cannot predict whether these programs will continue beyond the 
scheduled termination date. Net revenues at the Company's ambulatory 
treatment centers increased to $17 million in 1994 from $11 million in 1993 
and $2 million in 1992. The Company sold two hospitals in the fourth quarter 
of 1993, which reported net revenues of $38 million in 1993 and $48 million 
in 1992. 

   Excluding the revenue effects of the special Medicaid reimbursement 
programs, earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, 
lease and rental expense and non-recurring transactions (EBITDAR) increased 
from $106 million in 1992 to $113 million in 1993 and to $127 million in 
1994. Overall operating margins improved from approximately 15% in both 1992 
and 1993 to 16.5% in 1994. The improvement in the Company's overall operating 
margins in 1994 is due primarily to the divestiture of the two low margin 
acute care facilities in 1993 and lower insurance expense in 1994 as compared 
to the previous two years. 

ACUTE CARE SERVICES 

   Net revenues from the Company's acute care hospitals and ambulatory 
treatment centers accounted for 85%, 84% and 84% of consolidated net revenues 
in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. 

   Net revenues at the Company's acute care hospitals owned during each of 
the last three years increased 9% in 1994 over 1993 and 7% in 1993 over 1992, 
after excluding the revenues received from the special Medicaid 
reimbursements described above. Despite the continued shift in the delivery 
of healthcare services to outpatient care, the Company's acute care hospitals 
experienced a 10% increase in inpatient admissions and a 7% increase in 
patient days in 1994 due primarily to additional capacity and expansion of 
service lines at two of the Company's larger facilities. Admissions and 
patient days at these facilities remained relatively unchanged during 1993 as 
compared to 1992. Outpatient activity at the Company's acute care hospitals 
continues to increase as gross outpatient revenues at these hospitals 
increased 16% in 1994 over 1993 and 18% in 1993 over 1992 and comprised 24% 
of the Company's gross patient revenues in 1994 and 1993 and 23% in 1992. The 
increase is primarily the result of advances in medical technologies, which 
allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, and increased 
pressure from Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), 
preferred provider organizations (PPOs) and insurers to reduce hospital stays 
and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. 
To accommodate the increased utilization of outpatient services, the Company 
has expanded or redesigned several of its outpatient facilities and services. 


   In addition, to take advantage of the trend toward increased outpatient 
services, the Company has continued to invest in the acquisition and 
development of outpatient surgery and radiation therapy centers. The Company 
currently operates or manages twenty-two outpatient treatment centers, 
including nine added during 1994, which have contributed to the increase in 
the Company's outpatient revenues. The Company expects the growth in 
outpatient services to continue, although the rate of growth may be moderated 
in the future. 

   Excluding the revenues received from the special Medicaid reimbursements 
described above, operating margins (EBITDAR) at the Company's Acute Care 
hospitals owned during all three years were 19.9%, 19.5% and 21.3% in 1994, 
1993 and 1992, respectively. The margin improvement in 1994 over 1993 was 
primarily the result of lower insurance expense. The margin decline from 1992 
to 1993 resulted primarily from deterioration in payer mix and general 
industry trends. Pressure on operating margins is expected to continue due to 
the industry-wide trend away from charge based payers which limits the 
Company's ability to increase its prices. 

BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES 

   Net revenues from the Company's behavioral health services accounted for 
14%, 15% and 15% of consolidated net revenues in 1994, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively. Net revenues at the Company's psychiatric hospitals owned 
during each of the last three years decreased 7% in 1994 as compared to 1993 
due primarily to a reduction in patient days. Despite a 12% increase in 
admissions in 1994, patient days decreased 3% due to a reduction in the 
average length of stay to 13.8 days in 1994 from 15.9 days in 1993. The 
reduction in the average length of stay is a result of changing practices in 
the delivery of psychiatric care and continued cost containment pressures 
from payers which includes a greater emphasis on the utilization of 
outpatient services. Management of the Company has responded to these trends 
by developing and marketing new outpatient treatment programs. Net revenues 
at these hospitals increased 6% in 1993 as compared to 1992 due to a 17% 
increase in admissions offset by a reduction in the average length of stay to 
15.9 days in 1993 from an average stay of 20.0 days in 1992. The shift to 
outpatient care is reflected in higher revenues from outpatient services, as 
gross outpatient revenues at the Company's psychiatric hospitals increased 
17% in 1994 over 1993 and 39% in 1993 over 1992 and now comprises 15% of 
psychiatric gross patient revenues as compared to 13% in 1993 and 10% in 
1992. In spite of the current environment in which the Company's psychiatric 
facilities are operating and the continually declining average length of 
stay, management continues to believe that there is a great demand for mental 
health services. 

   Operating margins (EBITDAR) at the facilities owned during all three years 
were 15.8% in 1994, 21.5% in 1993 and 17.6% in 1992. The decrease in the 
profit margin in 1994 as compared to 1993 was primarily caused by the 
decrease in the facility's net revenues which declined due to an increase in 
Medicaid denials, a decrease in days of care delivered and a decline in the 
net revenue per day. 

OTHER OPERATING RESULTS 

   During 1994, the Company recorded $9.8 million of nonrecurring charges 
which includes a $4.3 million loss on the anticipated disposal of two acute 
care facilities. The Company expects to exchange these facilities, along with 
cash, for a 225 bed acute and psychiatric care hospital. This transaction is 
expected to be completed during the second quarter of 1995. Also included in 
nonrecurring charges is a $2.8 million write-down in the carrying value of a 
psychiatric hospital owned by the Company and leased to an unaffiliated third 
party which is currently in default under the terms of the lease agreement, a 
$1.4 million write down recorded against the book value of the real property 
of a psychiatric hospital, and $1.3 million of expenses related to the 
disposition of a non-strategic business. Included in the $8.8 million of 
nonrecurring charges recorded in 1993 is a $4.4 million loss on disposal of 
two acute care facilities divested during the fourth quarter of 1993 and $4.4 
million related to the winding down or disposition of non-strategic 
businesses. 

   Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.8 million in 1994 over 
1993 due primarily to $1.9 million in such expenses related to the Company's 
acquisition of ambulatory treatment centers and the increased depreciation 
expense related to capital expenditures and expansions made in the Company's 
acute care division. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 
approximately $9.5 million in 1993 as compared to 1992, due primarily to a 
$13.5 million amortization charge in 1992 resulting from the revaluation of 
certain goodwill balances. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $2.4 
million increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the 
Company's acquisitions of outpatient treatment centers. 




   Interest expense decreased 27% in 1994 as compared to 1993 and 24% in 1993 
as compared to 1992 due to lower average outstanding borrowings. 

   The effective tax rate was 39%, 32% and 51%, in 1994, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for 1994 as compared to 
1993 was due to the 1993 tax provision containing a reduction in the state 
tax provision. The reduction in the effective tax rate in 1993 as compared to 
1992, in addition to the reduction in the state tax provision mentioned 
above, was attributable to the above mentioned $13.5 million goodwill 
amortization recorded in the 1992 period, which was not deductible for income 
tax purposes. 

GENERAL TRENDS 

   An increased proportion of the Company's revenue is derived from fixed 
payment services, including Medicare and Medicaid which accounted for 44%, 
43% and 39% of the Company's net patient revenues during 1994, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively, excluding the additional revenues from special Medicaid 
reimbursement programs. The Company expects the Medicare and Medicaid 
revenues to continue to increase as a larger portion of the general 
population qualifies for coverage as a result of the aging of the population 
and expansion of state Medicaid programs. The Medicare program reimburses the 
Company's hospitals primarily based on established rates by a diagnosis 
related group for acute care hospitals and by a cost based formula for 
psychiatric hospitals. 

   In addition to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, other payers continue 
to actively negotiate the amounts they will pay for services performed. In 
general, the Company expects the percentage of its business from managed care 
programs, including HMOs and PPOs to grow. The consequent growth in managed 
care networks and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating 
results of the Company's facilities vary among the markets in which the 
Company operates. 

HEALTHCARE REFORM 

   In addition to the trends described above that continue to have an impact 
on operating results, there are a number of other, more general factors 
affecting the Company's business. The Company and the healthcare industry as 
a whole face increased uncertainty with respect to the level of payer 
payments because of national and state efforts to reform healthcare. These 
efforts include proposals at all levels of government to contain healthcare 
costs while making quality, affordable health services available to more 
Americans. The Company is unable to predict which proposals, if any, will be 
adopted or the resulting implications for providers at this time. However, 
the Company believes that the delivery of primary care, emergency care, 
obstetrical and psychiatric services will be an integral component of any 
strategy for controlling healthcare costs and it also believes it is well 
positioned to provide these services. 

INFLATION 

   The healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits 
are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supply costs which tend to 
escalate as vendors pass on the rising costs through price increases. 
Although the Company cannot predict its ability to continue to cover future 
costs increases, management believes that through the adherence to cost 
containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the 
effects of inflation, which has not had a material impact on the results of 
operations during the last three years, on future operating margins should be 
manageable. However, the Company's ability to pass on these increased costs 
associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients may be 
limited since although these fixed payments rates are indexed for inflation 
annually, the increases have historically lagged behind actual inflation. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

   Net cash provided by operating activities was $60.6 million, $84.6 million 
and $81.7 million for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. The $24.0 million 
decrease in 1994 as compared to 1993 was primarily attributable to an 
increase in the number of days of revenues in accounts receivable, 
acceleration in the payment of income taxes and an increase in the payments 
made in settlement of the Company's self-insurance reserves. The unfavorable 
change in the outstanding accounts receivable was caused by a temporary 
decline in cash collections due to information system conversions at the 
Company's hospitals. During each of the past three years, the net cash 




provided by operating activities substantially exceeded the scheduled 
maturities of long-term debt. Acquisitions totalled $25.8 million for 
businesses and assets held for lease in 1994 compared with $11.5 million for 
businesses in 1993. During 1994, the Company invested in additional 
outpatient treatment centers and a 112-bed acute care hospital located in 
Edinburg, Texas. In connection with the acquisition of the Edinburg facility, 
the Company committed to invest at least an additional $30 million to 
renovate the existing facility and construct an additional facility over the 
next three years. The Company expects to continue to invest in the 
acquisition and development of outpatient surgery and radiation centers in 
1995 at a level comparable to 1994. During the fourth quarter of 1994, the 
Company signed letters of intent to acquire a 225-bed acute and psychiatric 
care hospital in Aiken, South Carolina and a 512-bed acute care hospital in 
Bradenton, Florida in exchange for approximately $200 million in cash and two 
acute care facilities. The closing of these transactions are subject to a 
number of conditions. 

   Operating results of the hospital located in Edinburg have been included 
in the financial statements only from the date of acquisition. Assuming the 
above Edinburg, Aiken and Bradenton acquisitions had been completed as of 
January 1, 1994, the unaudited pro forma net revenues and net income would 
have been $952 million and $32 million, respectively. In addition, the 
unaudited pro forma earnings per share would have been $2.25. The unaudited 
pro forma financial information may not be indicative of results that would 
have been reported if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 1994 
and may not be indicative of future operating results. Capital expenditures, 
excluding capital leases, were $44.0 million in 1994, $47.3 million in 1993 
and $33.2 million in 1992. Capital expenditures in 1995 are expected to be 
approximately $33.3 million for capital equipment and renovations of existing 
facilities. Additionally, capital expenditures are expected for new projects 
at existing hospitals and medical office buildings to total approximately 
$36.0 million in 1995. The estimated cost to complete major construction 
projects in progress at December 31, 1994 is approximately $12.3 million. The 
Company believes that its capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, 
improve and equip its existing hospitals. Total debt as a percentage of total 
capitalization was 26% at December 31, 1994 and 1993 down from 37% at 
December 31, 1992. The 1994 and 1993 year-end ratios are the lowest since the 
Company went public in 1981. 

   During 1994 the Company increased its commercial paper facility from $25 
million to $50 million. The facility is a daily valued program which is 
secured by patient accounts receivable. The Company has sufficient patient 
receivables to support a larger program, and upon the mutual consent of the 
Company and the participating lending institutions, the commitment can be 
increased. At December 31, 1994 there were $38.5 million of borrowings 
outstanding under this facility. 

   During 1994, the Company entered into an unsecured $125 million 
non-amortizing revolving credit agreement which matures in August of 1999. 
The agreement contains a provision whereby 50% of the net consideration, in 
excess of $25 million, from the disposition of assets will be applied to 
reduce commitments. At December 31, 1994, the Company had $125 million of 
unused borrowing capacity, and there were no borrowings outstanding under 
this revolving credit agreement. 

   The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the 
impact of changes in interest rates on its floating rate debt. At December 
31, 1994, the Company had interest rate swap agreements with commercial banks 
having a total notional principal amount of $30 million. These agreements 
call for the payment of interest at a fixed rate by the Company in return for 
the payment by the commercial banks of a variable rate interest, which 
effectively fixes the Company's interest rate on a portion of its floating 
rate debt at 11.9%. The interest rate swap agreements in the amounts of $20 
million and $10 million expire in January, 1995 and March, 1996, 
respectively. The effective interest rate on the Company's revolving credit 
and demand notes and commercial paper program including interest rate swap 
expense was 16.1%, 13.9% and 11.2% during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. 
The corresponding effective interest rates not including interest rate swap 
expense were 7.9%, 4.6% and 5.5% including commitment fees during 1994, 1993 
and 1992, respectively. Additional interest expense recorded as a result of 
the Company's hedging activity was $1,981,000, $3,160,000 and $4,158,000 in 
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. The Company is exposed to credit loss in 
the event of non-performance by the other parties to the interest rate swap 
agreements. These counterparties are major financial institutions and the 
Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties, which are 
rated AA or better by Moody's Investors Service. The cost to terminate the 
net swap obligations at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was approximately 
$2,133,000 and $4,870,000, respectively. 



   The Company expects to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions 
with internally generated funds and borrowed funds. Additional borrowed funds 
may be obtained either through refinancing the existing revolving credit 
agreement, the commercial paper facility or the issuance of long-term 
securities. The Company is currently negotiating an increase to its revolving 
credit agreement. 

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

   The Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of 
Income, Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders' Equity, and 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, together with the report of Arthur 
Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, are included elsewhere herein. 
Reference is made to the "Index to Financial Statements and Financial 
Statement Schedule." 

ITEM 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure 

   None. 

                                   PART III 

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under 
the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement, to be 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 
December 31, 1994. See also "Executive Officers of the Registrant" appearing 
in Part I hereof. 

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 

   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under 
the caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement to be 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after 
December 31, 1994. 

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under 
the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" 
in the Company's Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 1994. 

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

   There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under 
the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Company's 
Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
within 120 days after December 31, 1994. 

                                   PART IV 

ITEM 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K 


(A) 1. AND 2. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE. 

   See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 
20. 


(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

   None 



(C) EXHIBITS 


       3.1 Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, previously filed 
   as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
   quarter ended June 30, 1983, Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on 
   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985, and Exhibit 3.1 to 
   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 
   1987, are incorporated herein by reference. 
  
       3.2 Bylaws of Registrant as amended, previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to 
   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
   1987, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       9. Stockholders Agreement, dated September 26, 1985, among Alan B. 
   Miller, Thomas L. Kempner, Sidney Miller, Anthony Pantaleoni and George H. 
   Strong, previously filed as Exhibit 9 to Registrant's Annual Report on 
   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985, is incorporated herein by 
   reference. 

       9.1 Amendment No. 1, dated as of November 1, 1989, to Stockholders 
   Agreement, dated September 26, 1985, among Alan B. Miller, Thomas L. 
   Kempner, Sidney Miller, Anthony Pantaleoni and George H. Strong, 
   previously filed as Exhibit 9.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
   for the year ended December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.1 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of August 21, 1992 
   among Universal Health Services, Inc., Certain Participating Banks, and 
   Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Agent, previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
   ended September 30, 1992, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.2 Restated Purchase Agreement, dated June 22, 1981, among 
   Registrant, its preferred stockholders and certain of its officers, 
   previously filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Registration Statement No. 2-72393 on 
   Form S-1, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.3 Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of July 14, 1992, by and 
   between Registrant and Alan B. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to 
   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
   1993, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.4 Form of Employee Stock Purchase Agreement for Restricted Stock 
   Grants, previously filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant's Annual Report on 
   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985, is incorporated herein by 
   reference. 

       10.5 Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between 
   Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc., previously 
   filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
   December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.6 Agreement, effective January 1, 1995, to renew Advisory Agreement, 
   dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income 
   Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc. 

       10.7 Form of Leases, including Form of Master Lease Document for 
   Leases, between certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Universal 
   Health Realty Income Trust, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 3 of 
   the Registration Statement on Form S-11 and Form S-2 of Registrant and 
   Universal Health Realty Income Trust (Registration No. 33-7872), is 
   incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.8 Share Option Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between 
   Universal Health Realty Income Trust and Registrant, previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 
   1986, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.9 Corporate Guaranty of Obligations of Subsidiaries Pursuant to 
   Leases and Contract of Acquisition, dated December 24, 1986, issued by 
   Registrant in favor of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, previously 
   filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
   December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.10 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.23 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
   ended December 31, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference. 



       10.11 1990 Employees' Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed 
   as Exhibit 10.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
   ended December 31, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference. 
  
       10.12 1992 Corporate Ownership Program, previously filed as Exhibit 
   10.24 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
   December 31, 1991, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.13 1992 Stock Bonus Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.25 to 
   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
   1991, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.14 1992 Stock Option Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.16 to 
   Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
   1992, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.15 Sale and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, 
   between Certain Hospitals and UHS Receivables Corp., previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.16 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
   ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.16 Servicing Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, among UHS 
   Receivables Corp., UHS of Delaware, Inc. and Continental Bank, National 
   Association, previously filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Registrant's Annual 
   Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated 
   herein by reference. 

       10.17 Pooling Agreement dated as of November 16, 1993, among UHS 
   Receivables Corp., Sheffield Receivables Corporation and Continental Bank, 
   National Association, previously filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Registrant's 
   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is 
   incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.18 Guarantee dated as of November 16, 1993, by Universal Health 
   Services, Inc. in favor of UHS Receivables Corp., previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.19 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
   ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.19 Amendment No. 1 to the 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option 
   Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.20 to Registrant's Annual Report on 
   Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by 
   reference. 

       10.20 Amendment No. 1 to the 1992 Stock Bonus Plan, previously filed as 
   Exhibit 10.21 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
   ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.21 1994 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.22 
   to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
   1993, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.22 Credit Agreement, dated as of August 2, 1994, among Universal 
   Health Services, Inc., Certain Participating Banks, and Morgan Guaranty 
   Trust Company of New York, as Agent, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to 
   Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 
   1994, is incorporated herein by reference. 

       10.23 Amendment No. 1 to the Pooling Agreement dated as of September 
   30, 1994, among UHS Receivables Corp., Sheffield Receivables Corporation 
   and Bank of America Illinois (as successor to Continental Bank N.A.) as 
   Trustee, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report 
   on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994, is incorporated 
   herein by reference. 

       10.24 Amended and Restated 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

       10.25 1992 Stock Option Plan, as Amended. 

       11. Statement re: computation of per share earnings. 

       22. Subsidiaries of Registrant. 

       24. Consent of Independent Public Accountants. 

       27. Financial Data Schedule. 

   Exhibits, other than those incorporated by reference, have been included 
in copies of this Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Stockholders of the Company will be provided with copies of those exhibits 
upon written request to the Company. 



                                  SIGNATURES 

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 


                         UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. 
                         
                         By:   /s/ ALAN B. MILLER 
                            ----------------------------              
                                  Alan B. Miller 
                                    President 

March 22, 1995 

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 






                       UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. 
                        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 

                                 (ITEM 14(A)) 






                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Universal Health Services, Inc.: 

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Universal 
Health Services, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of 
December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated statements of 
income, common stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 1994. These consolidated financial 
statements and the schedule referred to below are the responsibility of the 
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Universal Health Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 
and 1993, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994 in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. 

   Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic 
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the Index to 
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule is presented for the 
purpose of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and 
is not a required part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has 
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic 
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material 
respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to 
the basic financial statements taken as a whole. 


                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
February 16, 1995 



               UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
                            Year Ended December 31 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial 
statements. 




               UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 




               UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
            Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders' Equity 
             For the Years Ended December 31, 1994 1993, and 1992 





               UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
                            Year Ended December 31 




                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

   Universal Health Services, Inc. (the "Company") is primarily engaged in 
owning and operating acute care and psychiatric hospitals and ambulatory 
treatment centers. The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of the Company, and its majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships 
controlled by the Company as the managing general partner. All significant 
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The more 
significant accounting policies follow: 

   Net Revenues: Net revenues are reported at the estimated net realizable 
amounts from patients, third-party payers, and others for services rendered, 
including estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements 
with third-party payers. These net revenues are accrued on an estimated basis 
in the period the related services are rendered and adjusted in future 
periods as final settlements are determined. Medicare and Medicaid net 
revenues represented 44%, 43% and 39% of net patient revenues for the years 
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, excluding the additional revenues from 
special Medicaid reimbursement programs described in Note 9. 

   Property and Equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost. 
Expenditures for renewals and improvements are charged to the property 
accounts. Replacements, maintenance and repairs which do not improve or 
extend the life of the respective asset are expensed as incurred. The Company 
removes the cost and the related accumulated depreciation from the accounts 
for assets sold or retired and the resulting gains or losses are included in 
the results of operations. 

   Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated 
useful lives of buildings and improvements (twenty to forty years) and 
equipment (five to fifteen years). 

   Other Assets: The excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired in 
purchase transactions, net of accumulated amortization of $52,261,000 in 1994 
and $47,663,000 in 1993 is amortized using the straightine method over 
periods ranging from five to forty years. During 1992 the Company recorded a 
$13.5 million charge to amortization expense due to a revaluation of certain 
goodwill balances. 

   During 1994, the Company established an employee life insurance program 
covering approximately 2,500 employees. At December 31, 1994, the cash 
surrender value of the policies ($41.3 million) was recorded net of related 
loans ($41.0 million) and is included in other assets. 

   Long-Lived Assets: It is the Company's policy to review the carrying value 
of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be 
recoverable. If such review indicates that the carrying value of the asset is 
not recoverable, it is the Company's policy to reduce the carrying amount of 
such assets to fair value. 

   Earnings per Common and Common Share Equivalents: Earnings per share are 
based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the 
year adjusted to give effect to common stock equivalents. The 1994, 1993 and 
1992 earnings per share have been adjusted to reflect the assumed conversion 
of the Company's convertible debentures. In April 1994, the Company redeemed 
the debentures which reduced the fully diluted number of shares outstanding 
by 451,233. 

   Income Taxes: The Company and its subsidiaries file consolidated Federal 
tax returns. Deferred taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or 
deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial 
statements. 

   Other Noncurrent Liabilities: Other noncurrent liabilities include the 
long-term portion of the Company's professional and general liability and 
workers' compensation reserves and minority interests in majority owned 
subsidiaries and partnerships. 

   Statement of Cash Flows: For purposes of the consolidated statements of 
cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased 
with maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Interest 
expense in the consolidated statements of income is net of interest income of 
$266,000, $498,000 and $515,000 in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. 




   Interest Rate Swap Agreements: In managing interest rate exposure, the 
Company at times enters into interest rate swap agreements. When interest 
rates change, the differential to be paid or received is accrued as interest 
expense and is recognized over the life of the agreements. 

   Reclassifications: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to 
conform with the current year's presentation. 

2) ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSITIONS AND CLOSURES 

   1994 -- During 1994 the Company purchased majority interests in two 
separate partnerships which own and operate outpatient surgery facilities. 
One of these partnerships was merged with an existing partnership in which 
the Company held a majority ownership. The Company also agreed to manage the 
operations of, and purchased a majority interest in, three separate 
partnerships which lease fixed assets to four radiation therapy centers 
located in Kentucky. In addition, the Company purchased one radiation center 
and majority interests in two separate partnerships which own and operate 
radiation therapy centers. Total consideration for these acquisitions was 
$14.5 million in cash, and the assumption of liabilities totalling $3.0 
million. 

   In November 1994, the Company acquired a 112-bed acute care hospital 
located in Edinburg, Texas for net cash of approximately $11.3 million and 
the assumption of liabilities totalling $2.2 million. In connection with this 
acquisition, the Company committed to invest at least an additional $30 
million, over a four year period, to renovate the existing facility and 
construct an additional facility. 

   During the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company signed a letter of intent 
to acquire a 225-bed acute and psychiatric care hospital located in Aiken, 
South Carolina in exchange for a 104-bed acute care hospital, a 126-bed 
acute and psychiatric care hospital and cash. The majority of the real estate 
assets of the 126-bed facility are currently being leased from Universal 
Health Realty Income Trust (the "Trust") pursuant to the terms of an 
operating lease which expires in 2000. The Company anticipates exchanging 
additional real estate assets with the Trust as consideration for the 
purchase of the real estate assets of this facility (See Note 8). The closing 
of this transaction, which is expected to be completed during the second 
quarter of 1995, is subject to a number of conditions including regulatory 
approval. As a result of this transaction a $4.3 million charge is included 
in the 1994 consolidated statement of income. 

   Also during the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company signed a letter of 
intent to acquire a 512-bed acute care hospital located in Bradenton, 
Florida. The closing of this transaction is subject to a number of 
conditions. Although management does not expect to close this transaction 
until the second quarter of 1995, the Company began to manage the hospital in 
January, 1995 under a separate management contract. Total cash consideration 
for the Aiken and Bradenton acquisitions is expected to approximate $200 
million. 

   Operating results of the hospital located in Edinburg have been included 
in the financial statements only from the date of acquisition. Assuming the 
above Edinburg, Aiken and Bradenton acquisitions had been completed as of 
January 1, 1994 the unaudited pro forma net revenues and net income would 
have been $952 million and $32 million, respectively. In addition, the 
unaudited pro forma earnings per share would have been $2.25. The unaudited 
pro forma financial information may not be indicative of results that would 
have been reported if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 1994 
and may not be indicative of future operating results. 

   1993 -- During 1993 the Company purchased a radiation therapy center and 
majority interests in four separate partnerships which own and operate 
ambulatory surgery facilities for $11.5 million in cash and the assumption of 
liabilities totaling $300,000. 

   During the fourth quarter, the Company sold the operations and fixed 
assets of a 124-bed acute care hospital for approximately $7.8 million in 
cash. The Company also sold the operations and certain fixed assets of a 
134-bed acute care hospital for cash of $1.5 million. Concurrently, the 
Company sold certain related real property to Universal Health Realty Income 
Trust (the "Trust"), an affiliate and the lessor of this 134-bed acute care 
hospital, for $1 million in cash and a note receivable of $900,000 (see Note 
8). In connection with this transaction, the Company's lease with the Trust 
for this property was terminated. The disposition of these two facilities 
resulted in a pre-tax loss of $4.4 million ($2.2 million after tax), which is 
included in nonrecurring charges in the 1993 consolidated statement of 
income. 




   Also during 1993, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.4 million 
related to the winding down or disposition of other non-strategic businesses 
which is included in nonrecurring charges in the 1993 consolidated statement 
of income. 

   1992 -- During 1992 the Company purchased majority interests in four 
separate partnerships which own and operate ambulatory surgery facilities for 
$7.2 million in cash and the assumption of liabilities totaling $5.4 million. 

   Also during 1992, the Company discontinued operations at a 96-bed acute 
care hospital and sold the fixed assets of this facility for $3.4 million. 
The closing and sale of this hospital did not have a material impact on the 
consolidated financial statements. 

3) LONG-TERM DEBT 

   A summary of long-term debt follows: 



   During 1994, the Company increased its commercial paper facility from $25 
million to $50 million. The facility is a daily valued program which is 
secured by patient accounts receivable. The Company has sufficient patient 
receivables to support a larger program, and upon the mutual consent of the 
Company and the participating lending institutions, the commitment can be 
increased. A fee of .76% is required on this $50 million commitment. 
Outstanding amounts of commercial paper that can be refinanced through 
available borrowings under the Company's revolving credit agreement are 
classified as long-term. 

   The Company entered into an unsecured $125 million non-amortizing 
revolving credit agreement in 1994 which matures in August of 1999 and 
provides for interest, at the Company's option, at the prime rate, 
certificate of deposit rate plus 5/8% to 1 1/8% or Euro-dollar plus 1/2% to 
1%. A fee ranging from 1/8% to 3/8% is required on the unused portion of this 
commitment. The margins over the certificate of deposit, the Euro-dollar 
rates and the commitment fee are based upon leverage and coverage ratios. At 
December 31, 1994 the applicable margins over the certificate of deposit and 
the Euro-dollar rate were 7/8% and 3/4%, respectively, and the commitment fee 
was 1/4%. There are no compensating balance requirements. The agreement 
contains a provision whereby 50% of the net consideration, in excess of $25 
million, from the disposition of assets will be applied to reduce 
commitments. At December 31, 1994, the Company had $125 million of unused 
borrowing capacity, and there were no borrowings outstanding under this 
revolving credit agreement. 

   The average amounts outstanding during 1994, 1993 and 1992 under the 
revolving credit and demand notes and commercial paper program were 
$16,324,000, $25,069,000 and $47,318,000, respectively, with corresponding 
effective interest rates of 7.9%, 4.6% and 5.5% including commitment fees. 
The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $47,450,000, 
$46,800,000 and $91,650,000 during 1994, 1993 and 1992 respectively. 



   The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the 
impact of changes in interest rates on its floating rate revolving credit and 
demand notes and commercial paper program. At December 31, 1994, the Company 
had two interest rate swap agreements with commercial banks having a total 
notional principal amount of $30 million. These agreements call for the 
payment of interest at a fixed rate by the Company in return for the payment 
by the commercial banks of a variable rate interest, which effectively fixes 
the Company's interest rate on a portion of its floating rate debt at 11.9%. 
The interest rate swap agreements in the amounts of $20 million and $10 
million expire in January, 1995 and March, 1996, respectively. The effective 
interest rate on the Company's revolving credit and demand notes and 
commercial paper program including interest rate swap expense was 16.1%, 
13.9% and 11.2% during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. Additional interest 
expense recorded as a result of the Company's hedging activity was 
$1,981,000, $3,160,000 and $4,158,000 in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. 
The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the 
counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements. These counterparties are 
major financial institutions and the Company does not anticipate 
nonperformance by the counterparties which are rated AA or better by Moody's 
Investors Service. The cost to terminate the swap obligations at December 31, 
1994 and 1993, was approximately $2,133,000 and $4,870,000, respectively. 

   Covenants relating to long-term debt require maintenance of a minimum net 
worth, specified debt to total capital, debt to EBITDA and fixed charge 
coverage ratios. Covenants also limit the Company's ability to incur 
additional senior debt and to pay cash dividends and repurchase its shares 
and limit capital expenditures, among other restrictions. 

   During 1994, the Company called its 71/2% subordinated convertible 
debentures due 2008. Approximately $11 million of the debentures were 
redeemed in cash and $19 million were converted to the Company's class B 
stock. 

   Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable are pledged as 
collateral to secure debt. 

   The fair value of the Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1994 was 
approximately equal to its carrying value. 

   The Company is currently negotiating an increase to its revolving credit 
agreement. In connection with this transaction and other potential debt 
transactions to finance the acquisitions discussed in Note 2, the Company has 
entered into two options for interest rate swap agreements to become 
effective June, 1995, with a notional amount of $75 million and expiration 
dates in 2005. 

   Aggregate maturities follow: 

                         -------   ------------- 
                         1995        $ 7,236,000 
                         1996          5,721,000 
                         1997          4,540,000 
                         1998          2,647,000 
                         1999         48,733,000 
                         Later        23,484,000 
                         -------   ------------- 
                         Total       $92,361,000 
                         -------   ------------- 

4) COMMON STOCK 

   During 1994 and 1993, the Company repurchased 509,800 and 224,800 shares 
of Class B Common Stock respectively at an average purchase price of $25.79 
and $14.39 per share, respectively, or an aggregate of approximately $13.2 
million and $3.2 million, respectively. All repurchases during 1994 were made 
subsequent to March 1, 1994. The Company's ability to repurchase its shares 
is limited by long-term debt covenants to $50 million plus 50% of cumulative 
net income since March, 1994. Under the terms of these covenants, the Company 
had the ability to repurchase an additional $61.6 million of its Common Stock 
as of December 31, 1994. The repurchased shares are treated as retired. 

   At December 31, 1994 2,598,439 shares of Class B Common Stock were 
reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common 
Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B 
Common Stock, and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. Class A, 
C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B 
Common Stock. 



   In 1994, the Company adopted a Stock Compensation Plan which was approved 
by the Board of Directors. Under the terms of the Stock Compensation Plan, 
shares may be granted to key employees of the Company and to consultants and 
independent contractors. Shares may not be granted to officers or directors 
of the Company. The Plan will terminate on November 16, 2004, unless 
terminated sooner by the Board. 

   At December 31, 1994 the Company has reserved 50,000 shares of its Class B 
Common Stock for the Stock Compensation Plan. In 1994, 1,800 shares were 
issued. 

   In 1992, the Company adopted a Stock Bonus Plan and a Stock Ownership 
Plan, both of which were approved by the stockholders at the 1992 annual 
meeting. Under the terms of the Stock Bonus Plan, eligible employees may 
elect to receive all or part of their annual bonuses in shares of restricted 
stock (the "Bonus Shares"). Those electing to receive Bonus Shares also 
receive additional restricted shares in an amount equal to 20% of their Bonus 
Shares (the "Premium Shares"). Restrictions on one-half of the Bonus Shares 
and one-half of the Premium Shares lapse after one year and the restrictions 
on the remaining shares lapse after two years. The Company has reserved 
150,000 shares of Class B Common Stock for this plan and has issued 58,178 
shares at December 31, 1994. 

   Under the terms of the Stock Ownership Plan, eligible employees may 
purchase shares of common stock, directly from the Company, at the market 
price. The Company will loan each eligible employee an amount equal to 90% of 
the purchase price for the shares. The loans, which are partially recourse to 
the employee, bear interest at the applicable Federal rate and are due five 
years from the purchase date. Shares purchased under this plan are restricted 
from sale or transfer. Restrictions on one-half of the shares lapse after one 
year and restrictions on the remaining shares lapse after two years. The 
Company has reserved 100,000 shares of Class B Common Stock for this plan. As 
of December 31, 1994, 31,234 shares were sold under the terms of this plan. 

   The Company also has a Restricted Stock Purchase Plan which allows 
eligible participants to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at par 
value, subject to certain restrictions. Under the terms of this plan, 300,000 
shares of Class B Common Stock have been reserved for purchase by officers, 
key employees and consultants. The restrictions lapse as to one-third of the 
shares on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary dates of the purchase. The 
Company has issued 153,513 shares under this plan, of which 41,336 and 45,000 
became fully vested during 1994 and 1993, respectively. Compensation expense, 
based on the difference between the market price on the date of purchase and 
par value, is being amortized over the restriction period and was $148,000 in 
1994, $240,000 in 1993, $265,000 in 1992. 

   Stock options to purchase Class B Common Stock have been granted to 
officers, key employees and directors of the Company under various plans. 
During 1994, subject to shareholder approval, the Board of Directors approved 
a 600,000 share increase in the reserve for Class B Common Stock available 
for grant, pursuant to the terms of the 1992 Stock Option Plan. All stock 
options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value on 
the date of the grant. Options are exercisable ratably over a four year 
period beginning one year after the date of the grant. The options expire 
five years after the date of the grant. 



   Information with respect to these options is summarized as follows: 

                                              Average 
                                 Number       Option 
Outstanding Options             of Shares      Price 
- ---------------------------     ---------    -------- 
Balance, January 1, 1992  ..     148,002      $ 7.80 
  Granted ..................     135,000      $12.72 
  Exercised ................     (78,487)     $ 6.82 
  Cancelled ................      (4,340)     $12.67 
                                --------     ------- 
Balance, January 1, 1993  ..     200,175      $11.40 
  Granted ..................       7,400      $14.88 
  Exercised ................     (40,238)     $ 7.23 
  Cancelled ................      (3,000)     $12.50 
                                --------     ------- 
Balance, January 1, 1994  ..     164,337      $12.53 
  Granted ..................     560,750      $22.05 
  Exercised ................     (15,988)     $10.98 
  Cancelled ................      (5,500)     $16.64 
                                --------     ------- 
Balance, December 31, 1994       703,599      $20.12 
                                ========     ======= 


   Options for 299,350 shares, subject to shareholder approval as described 
above, were available for grant at December 31, 1994. At December 31, 1994, 
options for 71,801 shares of Class B Common Stock with an aggregate purchase 
price of $893,445 (average of $12.44 per share) were exercisable. 

5) INCOME TAXES 

   Components of income tax expense are as follows: 

                                 Year Ended December 31 
                    ------------------------------------------------ 
                          1994            1993             1992 
                    --------------   -------------    -------------- 
Currently payable 
  Federal ........    $ 27,014,000     $17,315,000     $ 28,495,000 
  State ..........       3,009,000       1,136,000        3,949,000 
                      ------------     -----------     ------------ 
                        30,023,000      18,451,000       32,444,000 
                      ------------     -----------     ------------ 
Deferred  ........ 
  Federal ........     (10,412,000)     (6,482,000)     (10,110,000) 
  State ..........      (1,402,000)       (884,000)      (1,401,000) 
                      ------------     -----------     ------------ 
                       (11,814,000)     (7,366,000)     (11,511,000) 
                      ------------     -----------     ------------ 
  Total ..........    $ 18,209,000     $11,085,000     $ 20,933,000 
                      ============     ===========     ============ 


   The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," (SFAS 
109). Under SFAS 109, deferred taxes are required to be classified based on 
the financial statement classification of the related assets and liabilities 
which give rise to temporary differences. The net effect of the impact of the 
1993 tax law changes on the 1993 current and deferred tax provisions was 
immaterial. 



   Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the financial 
statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The 
components of deferred taxes are as follows: 



   A reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and the effective tax 
rate is as follows: 



   In 1994 and 1993, the Company reviewed its deferred state tax balances and 
as a result reduced its tax provision by $390,000 and $780,000, respectively. 
The net deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: 

                                        Year Ended December 31 
                                   -------------------------------- 
                                         1994             1993 
                                   --------------   -------------- 
Current deferred taxes  
  Assets ........................    $ 16,622,000     $ 10,723,000 
  Liabilities ...................      (3,680,000)      (2,990,000) 
                                    -------------    ------------- 
  Total deferred taxes-current ..      12,942,000        7,733,000 
Noncurrent deferred taxes  
  Assets ........................      22,625,000       25,172,000 
  Liabilities ...................     (19,883,000)     (29,035,000) 
                                    -------------    ------------- 
  Total deferred taxes-noncurrent       2,742,000       (3,863,000) 
                                    -------------    ------------- 
Total deferred taxes  ...........    $ 15,684,000     $  3,870,000 
                                    =============    ============= 



   The assets and liabilities classified as current relate primarily to the 
allowance for uncollectible patient accounts and the current portion of the 
temporary differences related to self-insurance reserves and the change in 
accounting method. Under SFAS 109, a valuation allowance is required when it 
is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not 
be realized. The Company has not provided a valuation allowance since 
management believes that all of the deferred tax assets will be realized 
through the reversal of temporary differences that result in deferred tax 
liabilities and through expected future taxable income. 





6) LEASE COMMITMENTS 

   Certain of the Company's hospital and medical office facilities and 
equipment are held under operating or capital leases which expire through 
2013 (See Note 8). Certain of these leases also contain provisions allowing 
the Company to purchase the leased assets during the term or at the 
expiration of the lease at fair market value. A summary of property under 
capital lease follows: 

                                            December 31 
                                   ---------------------------- 
                                       1994            1993 
                                   -------------   ------------ 
Land, buildings and equipment  .    $23,697,000     $18,937,000 
Less: accumulated amortization       10,426,000       6,400,000 
                                   -------------   ------------ 
                                    $13,271,000     $12,537,000 
                                   ============    ============ 

   Future minimum rental payments under lease commitments with a term of more 
than one year as of December 31, 1994 are as follows: 

                                              Capital        Operating 
Year                                          Leases           Leases 
- ----                                       -----------     ------------ 
1995  .................................    $ 5,581,000     $ 23,693,000 
1996  .................................      4,716,000       21,011,000 
1997  .................................      3,363,000       18,371,000 
1998  .................................      1,618,000       17,012,000 
1999  .................................        381,000       16,405,000 
Later Years  ..........................             --       36,536,000 
                                           -----------     ------------ 
Total minimum rental  .................    $15,659,000     $133,028,000 
                                                           ============ 
Less: Amount representing interest  ...      1,655,000 
                                           ----------- 
Present value of minimum rental
  commitments  ........................     14,004,000 
Less: Current portion of capital lease 
  obligations .........................      4,729,000 
                                           ----------- 
Long-term portion of capital lease 
  obligations  ........................    $ 9,275,000 
                                           =========== 


   Capital lease obligations of $4,654,000, $5,371,000, $7,310,000 in 1994, 
1993 and 1992 respectively, were incurred when the Company entered into 
capital leases for new equipment. 

7) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

   The Company is self-insured for its general liability risks for claims 
limited to $5 million per occurrence and for its professional liability risks 
for claims limited to $25 million per occurrence. Coverage in excess of these 
limits up to $100 million is maintained with major insurance carriers. During 
1994 and 1993, the Company purchased a general and professional liability 
occurrence policy with a commercial insurer for one of its larger acute care 
facilities. This policy includes coverage up to $25 million per occurrence 
for general and professional liability risks. 

   As of December 1994 and 1993, the reserve for professional and general 
liability risks was $62.4 million and $65.2 million, respectively, of which 
$11.0 million in 1994 and $8.3 million in 1993 is included in current 
liabilities. Self-insurance reserves are based upon actuarially determined 
estimates. 

   The Company has outstanding letters of credit totalling $20 million 
related to the Company's self-insurance programs ($11.0 million), as support 
for various debt instruments ($.4 million) and as support for a loan 
guarantee for an unaffiliated party ($8.6 million). The Company has also 
guaranteed approximately $2 million of loans. 

   During 1994, the Company signed letters of intent to acquire a 512-bed 
acute care hospital located in Bra- denten, Flordia and a 225-bed acute and 
psychiatric care facility located in Aiken, South Carolina. These transactions,
which are subject to a number of conditions, are expected to be completed 
during the second quarter of 1995. In addition to the exchange of certain real 
estate assets, the total cash consideration for these acquisitions 



is expected to approximate $200 million. Additionally, the Company is 
committed to invest at least an additional $30 million, over a four year 
period, to renovate the existing facility and construct an additional 
facility related to its 1994 acquisition of a 112-bed acute care hospital 
located in Edinburg, Texas. (See Note 2). 

   The Company estimates the cost to complete major construction projects in 
progress at December 31, 1994 will approximate $12.3 million. 

   The Company has entered into a long-term contract with a third party to 
provide certain data processing services for its acute care and psychiatric 
hospitals. This contract expires in 1999. 

   Various suits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business are 
pending against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome of 
such claims and litigation will not materially affect the Company's 
consolidated financial position or results of operations. 

8) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

   At December 31, 1994, the Company held approximately 8% of the outstanding 
shares of Universal Health Realty Income Trust (the "Trust"). Certain 
officers and directors of the Company are also officers and/or Directors of 
the Trust. The Company accounts for its investment in the Trust using the 
equity method of accounting. The Company's pre-tax share of income/(loss) 
from the Trust was $1,095,000, $757,000 and ($110,000) in 1994, 1993 and 1992 
respectively, and is included in net revenues in the accompanying 
consolidated statements of income. The carrying value of this investment at 
December 31, 1994 and 1993 was $8,404,000 and $7,375,000, respectively and is 
included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The 
market value of this investment at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was $11,261,000 
and $10,352,000, respectively. 

   During 1993, pursuant to the terms of its lease with the Trust, the 
Company purchased the real property of a 48-bed psychiatric hospital located 
in Texas for $3.2 million. The real property of this hospital was previously 
leased by the Company and base rental payments continued under the existing 
lease until the date of sale. Operations at this hospital were discontinued 
during the first quarter of 1992, however, the facility is currently being 
utilized for outpatient services at one of the Company's acute care 
hospitals. Also during 1993, the Company sold to the Trust certain real 
estate assets of a 134-bed hospital located in Illinois for approximately 
$1.9 million. These assets consisted of additions and improvements made to 
the facility by the Company since the sale of the major portion of the real 
estate assets to the Trust in 1986. The operations of this facility were sold 
during 1993 to an operator unaffiliated with the Company. 

   As of December 31, 1994, the Company leased eight hospital facilities from 
the Trust with initial terms expiring in 1999 through 2003. These leases 
contain up to six 5-year renewal options. Future minimum lease payments to 
the Trust are included in Note 6. The terms of the lease provide that in the 
event the Company discontinues operations at the leased facility for more 
than one year, the Company is obligated to offer a substitute property. If 
the Trust does not accept the substitute property offered, the Company is 
obligated to purchase the leased facility back from the Trust at a price 
equal to the greater of its then fair market value or the original purchase 
price paid by the Trust (See Note 2). Total rent expense under these 
operating leases was $15,700,000 in 1994, $16,600,000 in 1993 and $17,000,000 
in 1992. The Company received an advisory fee of $909,000 in 1994, $880,000 
in 1993 and $913,000 in 1992 from the Trust for investment and administrative 
services provided under a contractual agreement which is included in net 
revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 

   In connection with various stock based compensation plans, $118,000 and 
$405,000 of loans made to cer tain officers and key employees were forgiven 
in 1994 and 1992, respectively, and charged to compensation expense. 

   At January 1, 1992, the Company had a non-interest bearing demand note 
from a principal officer which was fully forgiven during 1992. Compensation 
expense charged to operations related to this note was $393,000 in 1992. 

   A member of the Company's Board of Directors is a partner in the law firm 
used by the Company as its principal outside counsel. 



9) QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) 

   The following tables summarize the Company's quarterly financial data for 
the two years ended December 31, 1994. 



   Net revenues in 1994 include $12.4 million of additional revenues received 
from special Medicaid reimbursement programs. Of this amount, $3.0 million 
was recorded in each of the first and second quarters, $3.1 million in the 
third quarter and $3.3 million in the fourth quarter. These programs are 
scheduled to terminate in August, 1995. These amounts were recorded in the 
periods that the Company met all of the requirements to be entitled to these 
reimbursements. Net revenues in the fourth quarter also include $3.0 million 
of proceeds related to the Company's previously disposed UK operations. The 
first quarter operating results also include approximately $1.3 million of 
expenses related to the disposition of a non-strategic business. The second 
quarter results include a $2.8 million write-down recorded against the book 
value of the real property of a psychiatric hospital owned by the Company and 
leased to an unaffiliated third party, which is currently in default under 
the terms of the lease. Also included in operating expenses during the second 
quarter is a $1.1 million favorable adjustment made to reduce the Company's 
workers compensation reserves. The fourth quarter results include a $1.3 
million write-down recorded against the book value of the real property of a 
psychiatric hospital owned by the Company and for which its lease was 
terminated by an unaffiliated third party and a $4.3 million charge related 
to the anticipated disposition of two acute care hospitals. (See Note 2). 




   Net revenues in 1993 include $13.5 million of additional revenues received 
from special Medicaid reim- bursement programs. Of the amount received, $4.6 
million was recorded in each of the first and second quarters, $1.0 million 
was recorded in the third quarter and $3.3 million was recorded in the fourth 
quarter. These amounts were recorded in the periods that the Company met all 
of the requirements to be entitled to these reimbursements. The first quarter 
operating results also include approximately $4.1 million of expenses related 
to the disposition of ancillary businesses and the second quarter operating 
results include a $3.2 million increase in the reserves for the Company's 
self-insurance programs. Net revenues in the third quarter include $3.0 
million of unfavorable adjustments related to prior year reimbursement issues 
and the fourth quarter operating results includes a $4.7 million pre-tax loss 
on disposal of two acute care hospitals and the winding down or disposition 
of non-strategic businesses. The Company's effective tax rate in the fourth 
quarter was significantly lower than other quarters due to the disposition of 
two acute care hospitals resulting in the recoupment of previously non- 
deductible charges. 




               UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
               SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 








                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS




10.6   Agreement, effective January 1, 1995, to renew Advisory Agreement, dated 
       as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust
       and UHS of Delaware, Inc.
 
10.24  Amended and Restated 1989 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

10.25  1992 Stock Option Plan, As Amended.


11.    Statement re: computation of per share earnings.


22.    Subsidiaries of Registrant.


24.    Consent of Independent Public Accountants.


27.    Financial Data Schedule.



