Item 1. Business

Honeywell
International Inc. (Honeywell) is a diversified technology and manufacturing
company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry,
turbochargers, automotive products, specialty chemicals, electronic and
advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and
energy efficient products and solutions for homes, business and transportation.
Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.

We
maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website under
the heading “Investor Relations” (see “SEC Filings & Reports”) immediately
after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by
reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2011
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or
about March 10, 2011, and which will also be available free of charge on our
website.

Information
relating to corporate governance at Honeywell, including Honeywell’s Code of
Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the
Committees of the Board of Directors are also available, free of charge, on our
website under the heading “Investor Relations” (see “Corporate Governance”), or
by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962,
c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell’s Code of Business
Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees.

Major Businesses

We
globally manage our business operations through four businesses that are
reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions,
Specialty Materials and Transportation Systems. Financial information related
to our operating segments is included in Note 23 of Notes to Financial
Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The
major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our
operating segments follows:

Aerospace

Our
Aerospace segment is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines,
systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business
and general aviation, military, space and airport operations.

Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsTurbine
 propulsion enginesTFE731
 turbofanBusiness,
 regional, generalUnited
 TechnologiesTFE1042
 turbofanaviation and military
 trainerRolls
 Royce/AllisonATF3
 turbofanaircraftTurbomecaF124
 turbofanCommercial
 and militaryWilliamsALF502
 turbofanhelicoptersLF507
 turbofanMilitary
 vehiclesCFE738
 turbofanHTF
 7000 turbofanT53,
 T55 turboshaftT800
 turboshaftTF40B/50AHTS900LT101-650/750/850TPE
 331 turbopropAGT1500
 turboshaftRepair,
 overhaul and spareparts










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Auxiliary
 power unitsAirborne
 auxiliary power unitsCommercial,
 regional, businessUnited
 Technologies

(APU’S)Jet
 fuel startersand military aircraft

Secondary
 power systemsGround
 power

Ground
 power units

Repair,
 overhaul and spare

parts



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Environmental
 controlAir
 management systems:Commercial,
 regional andAuxilec

systemsAir conditioninggeneral aviation aircraftBarber
 Colman

Bleed airMilitary
 aircraftDukes

Cabin pressure controlGround
 vehiclesEaton-Vickers

Air purification and
 treatmentSpacecraftGeneral
 Electric

Gas
 ProcessingGoodrich

Heat
 ExchangersLiebherr

Repair,
 overhaul and sparePacific
 Scientific

partsParker
 Hannifin

TAT

United
 Technologies



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Electric
 power systemsGeneratorsCommercial,
 regional, businessGeneral
 Electric

Power
 distribution & controland military aircraftGoodrich

Power
 conditioningSafran

Repair,
 overhaul and spareUnited
 Technologies

parts



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Engine
 systemsElectronic
 and hydromechanicalCommercial,
 regional andBAE
 Controls

accessoriesfuel controlsgeneral aviation aircraftGoodrich

Engine
 start systemsMilitary
 aircraftParker
 Hannifin

Electronic
 engine controlsUnited
 Technologies

Sensors

Valves

Electric
 and pneumatic power

generation systems

Thrust
 reverser actuation,

pneumatic and electric



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Avionics
 systemsFlight
 safety systems:Commercial,
 business andBAE

Enhanced
 Ground Proximitygeneral aviation aircraftBoeing/Jeppesen

Warning Systems (EGPWS)Government
 aviationGarmin

Traffic
 Alert and CollisionGeneral
 Electric

Avoidance Systems (TCAS)Goodrich

Windshear
 detection systemsKaiser

Flight
 data and cockpit voiceL3

recordersLockheed
 Martin

Weather
 radarNorthrop
 Grumman

Communication,
 navigationRockwell
 Collins

and surveillance systems:Thales

Navigation
 and guidanceTrimble/Terra

systemsUniversal
 Avionics

Global positioning systemsUniversal
 Weather










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Satellite
 systems

Integrated
 avionics systems

Flight
 management systems

Cockpit
 display systems

Data
 management and aircraft

performance monitoring

systems

Aircraft
 information systems

Network
 file servers

Wireless
 network transceivers

Weather
 information network

Navigation
 database

information

Cabin
 management systems

Vibration
 detection and

monitoring

Mission
 management systems

Tactical
 data management

systems

Maintenance
 and health

monitoring systems



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Aircraft
 lightingInterior
 and exterior aircraftCommercial,
 regional,Hella/Goodrich

lightingbusiness, helicopter andLSI

military aviation aircraftLuminator

(operators, OEMs, partsWhelen

distributors and MRO

service providers)



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Inertial
 sensorInertial
 sensor systems forMilitary
 and commercialAstronautics

guidance, stabilization,vehiclesKearfott

navigation and controlCommercial
 spacecraft andBAE

Gyroscopes,
 accelerometers,launch vehiclesGEC

inertial measurement unitsTransportationGeneral
 Electric

and thermal switchesMissilesGoodrich

Attitude
 and headingMunitionsL3
 Com

reference systemsKVH

Northrop
 Grumman

Rockwell



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Control
 productsRadar
 altimetersMilitary
 aircraftBAE

Pressure
 productsMissiles,
 UAVsGoodrich

Air
 data productsCommercial
 applicationsNorthrop
 Grumman

Thermal
 switchesCommercial,
 regional, businessRockwell
 Collins

Magnetic
 sensorsand military aircraftRosemount








Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsSpace
 products andGuidance
 subsystemsCommercial
 and militaryBAEsubsystemsControl
 subsystemsspacecraftIthacoProcessing
 subsystemsDoDL3Radiation
 hardened electronicsFAANorthrop
 Grummanand integrated circuitsNASARaytheonGPS-based
 range safetysystemsGyroscopesProduct/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsManagement
 and technicalMaintenance/operation
 andU.S.
 government space (NASA)Bechtelservicesprovision of space systems,DoD
 (logistics and informationBoeingservices and facilitiesservices)Computer
 SciencesSystems
 engineering andFAADyncorpintegrationDoEITTInformation
 technology servicesLocal
 governmentsLockheed
 MartinLogistics
 and sustainmentCommercial
 space groundRaytheonsegment systems andSAICservicesThe
 Washington GroupUnited
 Space AllianceProduct/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsLanding
 systemsWheels
 and brakesCommercial
 airline, regional,Dunlop
 Standard AerospaceWheel
 and brake repair andbusiness
 and military aircraftGoodrichoverhaul servicesHigh
 performanceK&F
 Industriescommercial vehiclesMessier-BugattiUSAF,
 DoD, DoENASCOBoeing, Airbus, LockheedMartin










Automation
 and Control Solutions



Our Automation and Control Solutions segment is a leading global
 provider of environmental and combustion controls, sensing controls, security
 and life safety products and services, scanning and mobility devices and
 process automation and building solutions and services for homes, buildings
 and industrial facilities.



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Environmental
 andHeating,
 ventilating and airOriginal
 equipmentBosch

combustion controls;conditioning controls andmanufacturers (OEMs)Cherry

sensing controlscomponents for homes andDistributorsDanfoss

buildingsContractorsEaton

Indoor
 air quality productsRetailersEmerson

including zoning, air
 cleaners,System
 integratorsEndress
 & Hauser

humidification, heat andCommercial
 customers andFreescale

energy recovery ventilatorshomeowners served bySemiconductor

Controls
 plus integratedthe distributor, wholesaler,GE

electronic systems forcontractor, retail and
 utilityHolmes

burners, boilers andchannelsInvensys

furnacesPackage
 and materials handlingJohnson
 Controls

Consumer
 household productsoperationsOmron

including humidifiers andAppliance
 manufacturersSchneider

thermostatsAutomotive
 companiesSiemens

Electrical
 devices and switchesAviation
 companiesUnited
 Technologies

Water
 controlsFood
 and beverage processorsYamatake

Sensors,
 measurement, controlMedical
 equipment

and industrial componentsHeat
 treat processors

Energy
 demand/responseComputer
 and business

management products andequipment manufacturers

services



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Security
 and life safetySecurity
 products and systemsOEMsBosch

products
 and servicesFire
 products and systemsRetailersDraeger

Access
 controls and closedDistributorsGE

circuit televisionCommercial
 customers andHubbell
 Inc

Home
 health monitoring andhomeowners served by theMine
 Safety

nurse call systemsthe distributor, wholesaler,Appliances

Gas
 detection products andcontractor, retail and
 utilityPelco

systemschannelsPhillips

Emergency
 lightingHealth
 care organizationsRiken
 Keiki

DistributionSecurity
 monitoring serviceSiemens

Personal
 protection equipmentprovidersTyco

Industrial,
 fire service, utilityUnited
 Technologies

distributors and U.S.3M

Government



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Scanning
 and mobilityHand
 held and hands freeOEMsDatalogic

image and laser based barRetailersIntermec

code scannersDistributorsTechnologies

Scan
 enginesCommercial
 customers servedMotorola
 Solutions

Mobile
 and wireless computersby the transportation and

and logistics,
 manufacturing,

healthcare and retail

channels










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Process
 automationAdvanced
 control software andRefining
 and petrochemicalABB

products and solutionsindustrial automation
 systemscompaniesAspenTech

for control and monitoring
 ofChemical
 manufacturersEmerson

continuous, batch and hybridOil
 and gas producersInvensys

operationsFood
 and beverage processorsSiemens

Production
 managementPharmaceutical
 companiesYokogawa

softwareUtilities

Communications
 systems forFilm
 and coated producers

Industrial Control equipmentPulp
 and paper industry

and systemsContinuous
 web producers in

Consulting,
 networkingthe paper, plastics, metals,

engineering and installationrubber, non-woverns and

Terminal
 automation solutionsprinting industries

Process
 control instrumentationMining
 and mineral industries

Field
 instrumentation

Analytical
 instrumentation

Recorders
 and controllers

Critical
 environment control

solutions and services

Aftermarket
 maintenance,

repair and upgrade

Gas
 control, measurement

and analyzing equipment



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Building
 solutions andHVAC
 and building controlBuilding
 managers and ownersAmeresco

servicessolutions and servicesContractors,
 architects andGroupMac

Energy
 management solutionsdevelopersIngersoll
 Rand

and services, includingConsulting
 engineersInvensys

demand response andSecurity
 directorsJohnson
 Controls

automationPlant
 managersLocal
 contractors

Security
 and assetUtilitiesand utilities

management solutions andLarge
 global corporationsSafegate

servicesPublic
 school systemsSchneider

Enterprise
 building integrationUniversitiesSiemens

solutionsLocal
 governmentsTrane

Building
 information servicesPublic
 housing agenciesThorn

Airport
 lighting and systems,AirportsUnited
 Technologies

visual docking guidance










Specialty Materials



Our Specialty Materials segment is a global leader in providing
 customers with high-performance specialty materials, including hydrocarbon
 processing technologies, catalysts, adsorbents, equipment and services,
 fluorine products, specialty films and additives, advanced fibers and
 composites, intermediates, specialty chemicals, electronic materials and
 chemicals.



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Resins
 & chemicalsNylon
 6 polymerNylon
 for carpet fibers,BASF

Caprolactamengineered resins andDSM

Ammonium
 sulfateflexible packagingSinopec

CyclohexanoneCompounded
 Fertilizer ingredientsUBE

Cyclophexanol
 (KA Oil)Specialty
 chemicals

MEKO



Hydrofluoric
 acid (HF)Anhydrous
 and aqueousFluorocarbonsMexichem
 Flour

hydrofluoric acidSteelSolvay

Oil refining

Chemical intermediates

Semiconductors
 Photovoltaics



FluorocarbonsRefrigerants,
 aerosol andRefrigerationArkema

insulation foam blowingAir
 conditioningDupont

agentsPolyurethane
 foamSolvay

Genesolv®
 solventsPrecision
 cleaningIneos

Oxyfume
 sterilant gasesOptical

Ennovate
 3000 blowing agentAppliances

for refrigeration insulationHospitals

Medical
 equipment

manufacturers





Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Fluorine
 specialtiesSulfur
 hexafluoride (SF6)Electric
 utilitiesAir
 Products

Iodine
 pentafluoride (IF)Magnesium
 gear manufacturersAsahi
 Glass

Antimony
 pentafluoride (SbF5)Solvay

LiMing



Nuclear
 servicesUF6
 conversion servicesNuclear
 fuelCameco

Electric
 utilitiesComurhex

Rosatom



Research
 and fineOxime-based
 fine chemicalsAgrichemicalsAvecia

chemicalsFluoroaromaticsBiotechDegussa

High-purity
 solventsDSM

E.
 Merck

Thermo
 Fisher

Scientific

Lonza

Sigma-Aldrich



Performance chemicalsHF derivativesDiverse by product typeAtotech

Imaging chemicalsFluoroaromaticsBASF

Chemical processingCatalystsDSM

sealantsOxime-silanes












Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Advanced
 fibers &High
 modulus polyethyleneBullet
 resistant vests, helmetsDuPont

compositesfiber and shield compositesand other armor applicationsDSM

Aramid
 shield compositesCut-resistant
 glovesTeijin

Rope
 & cordage



Specialty
 filmsCast
 nylon filmFood
 and pharmaceuticalAmerican
 Biaxis

Bi-axially
 oriented nylon filmpackagingCFP

Fluoropolymer
 filmDaikin

Kolon

Unitika



Specialty
 additivesPolyethylene
 waxesCoatings
 and inksBASF

Paraffin
 waxes and blendsPVC
 pipe, siding & profilesClariant

PVC
 lubricant systemsPlasticsEastman

Processing
 aidsReflective
 coatings

Luminescent
 pigmentsSafety
 & security applications





Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Electronic
 chemicalsUltra
 high-purity HFSemiconductorsKMG

Inorganic
 acidsPhotovoltaicsBASF

Hi-purity
 solventsGeneral
 Chemical



Semiconductor
 materialsInterconnect-dielectricsSemiconductorsBASF

and servicesInterconnect-metalsMicroelectronicsBrewer

Semiconductor
 packagingTelecommunicationsKyocera

materialsLEDNikko

Advanced
 polymersPhotovoltaicsPraxair

Anti-reflective
 coatingsShinko

Thermo-couplesTosch





Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Catalysts,
 adsorbents andCatalystsPetroleum,
 refining,Axens

specialtiesMolecular
 sievespetrochemical,
 gasBASF

Adsorbentsprocessing,
 andWR
 Grace

Customer
 catalystmanufacturing
 industriesHaldor

manufacturingShell/Criterion



Process
 technologyTechnology
 licensing andPetroleum
 refining,Axens

and equipmentengineering design ofpetrochemical and gasBP/Amoco

process units and systemsprocessingExxon-Mobil

Engineered
 productsChevron
 LummusGlobal

Proprietary
 equipmentChicago Bridge &Iron

Training
 and development ofKoch Glitsch

technical personnelLinde AG

Gas
 processing technologyNatco

Shaw Group

Shell/SGS



Renewable
 fuels andTechnology
 licensing ofAgricultural
 productsNeste
 Oy

chemicalsProcess,
 catalysts, absorbents,Lurgi

Refining
 equipment andSyntroleum

services for producingDynamotive

renewable-based fuels

and chemicals












Transportation
 Systems



Our Transportation Systems segment is one of the leading
 manufacturers of engine boosting systems for passenger cars and commercial
 vehicles, as well as a leading provider of automotive care and braking
 products.



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Charge-air
 systemsTurbochargers
 for gasolinePassenger
 car, truck andBorg-Warner

and
 diesel enginesoff-highway OEMsHolset

Engine
 manufacturersIHI

Aftermarket
 distributors andMHI

dealers



Thermal
 systemsExhaust
 gas coolersPassenger
 car, truck andBehr

Charge-air
 coolersoff-highway OEMsModine

Aluminum
 radiatorsEngine
 manufacturersValeo

Aluminum
 cooling modulesAftermarket
 distributors and

dealers



Aftermarket
 filters, sparkOil,
 air, fuel, transmission andAutomotive
 and heavy vehicleAC
 Delco

plugs, electroniccoolant filtersaftermarket channels, OEM’sBosch

components and car carePCV
 valvesand Original EquipmentChampion

productsSpark
 plugsService Providers (OES)Mann
 & Hummel

Wire
 and cableAuto
 supply retailersNGK

Antifreeze/coolantSpecialty
 installersPeak/Old
 World

Windshield
 washer fluidsMass
 merchandisersIndustries

Waxes,
 washes and specialtyPurolator

cleanersSTP/ArmorAll

Turtle
 Wax

Zerex/Valvoline



Brake
 hard parts and otherDisc
 brake pads and shoesAutomotive
 and heavy vehicleAdvics

friction materialsDrum
 brake liningsOEMs, OES, brakeAkebono

Brake
 blocksmanufacturers andContinental

Disc
 and drum brakeaftermarket channelsFederal-Mogul

componentsInstallersITT
 Corp

Brake
 hydraulic componentsRailway
 and commercial/militaryJBI

Brake
 fluidaircraft OEMs and brakeNisshinbo

Aircraft
 brake liningsmanufacturersTMD
 Friction

Railway
 liningsTRW



Aerospace Sales

Our
sales to aerospace customers were 32, 35 and 35 percent of our total sales in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 6, 7 and 9 percent of our total sales in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket
customers of aerospace products and services were 10, 11 and 11 percent of our
total sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our Aerospace results of
operations can be impacted by various industry and economic conditions. See
“Item 1A. Risk Factors.”






U.S. Government Sales

Sales to
the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its
various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to
$4,354, $4,288 and $4,240 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which
included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and
subcontractor, of $3,500, $3,455 and $3,412 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. U.S. defense spending increased in 2010. Although we expect a
slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2011 (see Item 7
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations), we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed
changes in 2011 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the
government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering development
programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). Our contracts
with the U.S. Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination
by the government. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Backlog

Our total
backlog at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $14,616 and $13,182 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $10,609 million of the 2010
backlog will be filled in 2011. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the
orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer’s option.

Competition

We are
subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas.
Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive
conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by
us, and vary by country. Depending on the particular customer or market
involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price,
quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied
technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service
to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our
products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other
competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line,
research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While
our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we
are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes.
However, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with
those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial
financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition,
some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original
equipment manufacturers. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for further discussion.

International Operations

We
    are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development
    mainly in the United States, Europe, Asia, Canada, Middle East and Latin
    America. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to
    our operations. U.S. exports comprised 11, 12 and 10 percent of our total
    sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Foreign manufactured products
    and services, mainly in Europe, were 41, 39 and 39 percent of our total sales
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Approximately
17 percent of total 2010 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were
exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services
such as aircraft repair and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe,
Canada, Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and
performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2010
Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in
Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.

Approximately
2 percent of total 2010 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products and
services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured
products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2010
Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia and
Canada.

Approximately
30 percent of total 2010 sales of Specialty Materials products and services
were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were principally made to
Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and performance of
services comprised 27 percent of total 2010 Specialty Materials sales. The
principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less
significant operations in Asia and Canada.






Approximately
3 percent of total 2010 sales of Transportation Systems products were exports
of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 70
percent of total 2010 sales of Transportation Systems. The principal
manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant
operations in Asia and Latin America.

Financial
information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic
areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Information regarding the
economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international
operations is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Raw Materials

The
principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available.
We experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and
commodities in 2010. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a material
amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in
our Specialty Materials segment. We purchase phenol under a supply agreement
with one supplier.

The costs
of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component
in phenol), ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur in our Specialty Materials business,
steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene glycol in our Transportation Systems
business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace business, are
expected to remain volatile. In addition, in 2010 certain large long-term fixed
supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our
Aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility
in certain component costs. We will continue to attempt to offset raw material
cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and
hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently anticipate that a
shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2011.
See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.

We are
highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet
commitments to our customers. In addition, many major components and product
equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a
number of domestic and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and
performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance
on third parties. While we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and
components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects
shortages or price increases may have in the future. Furthermore, the inability
of these suppliers to meet their quality and/or delivery commitments to us, due
to bankruptcy, natural disasters or any other reason, may result in significant
costs and delay, including those in connection with the required
recertification of parts from new suppliers with our customers or regulatory
agencies.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and
Distribution Rights

Our
segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents,
or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large
number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of
many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those
products and which are of importance to our business. From time to time, new
patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and
rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying
terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. In our
judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe
that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses
are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights
related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in
relation to our total business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further
discussion.

We have
registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including
Honeywell, Aclar, Ademco, Autolite, Bendix, Enovate, Fire-Lite, FRAM, Garrett,
Hand Held, Holts, Jurid, Metrologic, MK, North, Notifier, Novar, Prestone,
Redex, RMG, Simoniz, Spectra, System Sensor and UOP.

Research and Development

Our
research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new
products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for
existing products. The Company’s principal research and development activities
are in the U.S., Europe, India and China.

Research
and development (R&D) expense totaled $1,466, $1,330 and $1,543 million in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
increase in R&D expense of 10 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 was mainly
due to






additional product design and development costs in Automation and
Control Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of products for
new aircraft platforms. The decrease in R&D expense in 2009 compared to
2008 of 14 percent was consistent with our 15 percent decrease in net sales.
R&D as a percentage of sales was 4.4, 4.3 and 4.2 percent in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S. Government)
R&D activities amounted to an additional $874, $852 and $903 million in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Environment

We are
subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment. It is our policy to comply with
these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies,
practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with
our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some
of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in
similar businesses.

We are and
have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many
substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. We
believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and
personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these
substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It
is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as
improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly
strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring
into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of
these substances.

Among other
environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar
state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as
a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated
with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some
of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority
list. Although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a
possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its
proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate
contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear
significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken
as a whole.

We
    do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation,
    or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material
effect in the foreseeable future on the Company’s business or markets
that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or
financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this
area.

Further
information, including the current status of significant environmental matters
and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental
matters, if any, is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Note 21 of Notes to
Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Employees

We have
approximately 130,000 employees at December 31, 2010, of which approximately
53,000 were located in the United States.








