Item
 1.Business

Honeywell
International Inc. (Honeywell) is a diversified technology and manufacturing
company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry,
turbochargers, automotive products, specialty chemicals, electronic and
advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and
energy efficient products and solutions for homes, business and transportation.
Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.

We
maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website under
the heading “Investor Relations” (see “SEC Filings & Reports”) immediately
after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by
reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2012
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or
about March 8, 2012, and which will also be available free of charge on our
website.

Information
relating to corporate governance at Honeywell, including Honeywell’s Code of
Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the
Committees of the Board of Directors are also available, free of charge, on our
website under the heading “Investor Relations” (see “Corporate Governance”), or
by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962,
c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell’s Code of Business
Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees.

Major Businesses

We
globally manage our business operations through four businesses that are
reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions,
Performance Materials and Technologies (formerly Specialty Materials), and
Transportation Systems. Financial information related to our operating segments
is included in Note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The
major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our
operating segments follows:

Aerospace

Our
Aerospace segment is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines,
systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business
and general aviation, military, space and airport operations.

Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsTurbine propulsion enginesTFE731 turbofanTFE1042 turbofanATF3 turbofanF125 turbofanF124 turbofanALF502 turbofanLF507 turbofanCFE738 turbofanHTF 7000 turbofanT53 turboshaftT55 turboshaftCTS800 turboshaftHTS900 turboshaftLT101 turboshaftTPE 331 turbopropAGT1500 turboshaftRepair,
 overhaul and sparepartsBusiness,
 regional, and generalaviationCommercial helicoptersMilitary vehiclesMilitary helicoptersMilitary trainerRolls Royce/AllisonTurbomecaUnited TechnologiesWilliams










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Auxiliary power units(APU’S)Airborne auxiliary power unitsJet fuel startersSecondary power systemsGround power unitsRepair,
 overhaul and sparepartsCommercial,
 regional, businessand military aircraftGround powerUnited Technologies



Environmental controlsystemsAir
 management systems:Air conditioningBleed airCabin pressure controlAir purification and treatmentGas ProcessingHeat ExchangersRepair,
 overhaul and sparepartsCommercial,
 regional andgeneral aviation aircraftMilitary aircraftGround vehiclesSpacecraftAuxilecBarber ColmanDukesEaton-VickersGeneral ElectricGoodrichLiebherrPacific ScientificParker HannifinTATUnited Technologies



Electric power systemsGeneratorsPower distribution & controlPower conditioningRepair, overhaul
 and sparepartsCommercial,
 regional, businessand military aircraftCommercial and militaryhelicoptersMilitary vehiclesGeneral ElectricGoodrichSafranUnited Technologies



Engine systemsaccessoriesElectronic
 and hydromechanicalfuel controlsEngine start systemsElectronic engine controlsSensorsValvesElectric
 and pneumatic powergeneration systemsThrust
 reverser actuation,pneumatic and electricCommercial,
 regional andgeneral aviation aircraftMilitary aircraftBAE ControlsGoodrichParker HannifinUnited Technologies



Avionics systemsFlight safety systems:Enhanced
 Ground ProximityWarning Systems (EGPWS)Traffic
 Alert and CollisionAvoidance Systems (TCAS)Windshear
 detection systemsFlight data
 and cockpit voicerecordersWeather radarCommunication,
 navigationand surveillance systems:Navigation and guidanceCommercial,
 business andgeneral aviation aircraftGovernment aviationMilitary aircraftBAEBoeing/JeppesenGarminGeneral ElectricGoodrichKaiserL3Lockheed MartinNorthrop GrummanRockwell CollinsThalesTrimble/Terra








Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorssystemsGlobal positioning systemsSatellite systemsIntegrated avionics systemsFlight management systemsCockpit display systemsData
 management and aircraftperformance monitoringsystemsAircraft information systemsNetwork file serversWireless network transceiversWeather information networkNavigation
 databaseinformationCabin management systemsVibration
 detection andmonitoringMission management systemsTactical
 data managementsystemsMaintenance
 and healthmonitoring systemsUniversal AvionicsUniversal WeatherAircraft lightingInterior
 and exterior aircraftlightingCommercial,
 regional,business, helicopter andmilitary aviation aircraft(operators, OEMs, partsdistributors and MROservice providers)Hella/GoodrichLSILuminatorWhelenInertial sensorInertial
 sensor systems forguidance, stabilization,navigation and controlGyroscopes,
 accelerometers,inertial measurement unitsand thermal switchesAttitude
 and headingreference systemsMilitary
 and commercialvehiclesCommercial
 spacecraft andlaunch vehiclesTransportationPowered, guided munitionsMunitionsAstronauticsKearfottBAEGECGeneral ElectricGoodrichL3 ComKVHNorthrop GrummanRockwellControl productsRadar altimetersPressure productsAir data productsThermal switchesMagnetic sensorsMilitary aircraftPowered, guided munitions, UAVsCommercial applicationsCommercial, regional, businessaircraftBAEGoodrichNorthrop GrummanRockwell CollinsRosemount








Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsSpace products andsubsystemsGuidance subsystemsControl subsystemsProcessing subsystemsRadiation
 hardened electronicsand integrated circuitsGPS-based
 range safetysystemsGyroscopesCommercial
 and militaryspacecraftDoDFAANASABAEIthacoL3Northrop GrummanRaytheonManagement and technicalservicesMaintenance/operation
 andprovision of space systems,services and facilitiesSystems
 engineering andintegrationInformation technology servicesLogistics and sustainmentU.S. government space (NASA)DoD
 (logistics and informationservices)FAADoELocal governmentsCommercial
 space groundsegment systems andservicesBechtelBoeingComputer SciencesDyncorpExelisLockheed MartinRaytheonSAICThe
 WashingtonGroupUnited
 SpaceAllianceLanding systemsWheels and brakesWheel and
 brake repair andoverhaul servicesCommercial airline, regional,business and military aircraftUSAF, DoD,
 DoEBoeing, Airbus, LockheedMartinGoodrichMeggittMessier-Bugatti










Automation and Control Solutions



Our Automation and Control Solutions segment is a leading global
 provider of environmental and combustion controls, sensing controls, security
 and life safety products and services, scanning and mobility devices and
 process automation and building solutions and services for homes, buildings
 and industrial facilities.



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Environmental andcombustion controls;sensing controlsHeating, ventilating and airconditioning controls andcomponents for homes andbuildingsIndoor air quality productsincluding zoning, air cleaners,humidification, heat andenergy recovery ventilatorsControls plus integratedelectronic systems forburners, boilers andfurnacesConsumer household productsincluding humidifiers andthermostatsElectrical devices and
 switchesWater controlsSensors, measurement,
 controland industrial componentsEnergy demand/responsemanagement products andservicesOriginal equipmentmanufacturers (OEMs)DistributorsContractorsRetailersSystem integratorsCommercial customers andhomeowners served bythe distributor, wholesaler,contractor, retail and utilitychannelsPackage and materials handlingoperationsAppliance manufacturersTransportation companiesAviation companiesFood and beverage processorsMedical equipmentHeat treat processorsComputer and businessequipment manufacturersBoschCherryDanfossEatonEmersonEndress & HauserFreescaleSemiconductorGEHolmesInvensysJohnson ControlsOmronSchneiderSiemensUnited TechnologiesYamatakeMeasurementSpecialties



Security
 and life safetyproducts and servicesSecurity products and
 systemsFire products and systemsAccess controls and closedcircuit televisionHome health monitoring andnurse call systemsGas detection products andsystemsEmergency lightingDistributionPersonal protection
 equipmentOEMsRetailersDistributorsCommercial customers andhomeowners served by thethe distributor, wholesaler,contractor, retail and utilitychannelsHealth care organizationsSecurity monitoring serviceprovidersIndustrial, fire service,
 utilitydistributors and U.S.GovernmentBoschDraegerGEHubbell IncMine SafetyAppliancesPelcoPhillipsRiken KeikiSiemensTycoUnited Technologies3M



Scanning and mobilityHand held and hands freeimage and laser based barcode scannersScan enginesMobile and wireless
 computersOEMsRetailersDistributorsCommercial customers servedby the transportation andand logistics, manufacturing,healthcare and retailDatalogicIntermecTechnologiesIridium VarsMotorola SolutionsPsionSkywave










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Satellite tracking hardware,airtime services andapplicationsSearch & Rescue groundstations and systemsoftwareLXE Hand Held and VehicleMountschannelsSecurity, logistics,
 maritimecustomers for:the tracking of vehicles,containers, ships, andpersonnel in remoteenvironmentsNational organizations thatmonitor distress signalsfrom aircraft, ships andindividuals, typically Militarybranches and Coast GuardsWarehousing and PortsTsi



Process automationproducts and solutionsAdvanced control software
 andindustrial automation systemsfor control and monitoring ofcontinuous, batch and hybridoperationsProduction managementsoftwareCommunications systems forIndustrial Control equipmentand systemsConsulting, networkingengineering and installationTerminal automation
 solutionsProcess control
 instrumentationField instrumentationAnalytical instrumentationRecorders and controllersCritical environment controlsolutions and servicesAftermarket maintenance,repair and upgradeGas control, measurementand analyzing equipmentRefining and petrochemicalcompaniesChemical manufacturersOil and gas producersFood and beverage processorsPharmaceutical companiesUtilitiesFilm and coated producersPulp and paper industryContinuous web producers inthe paper, plastics, metals,rubber, non-woverns andprinting industriesMining and mineral
 industriesABBAspenTechEmersonInvensysSiemensYokogawa



Building solutions andservicesHVAC and building controlsolutions and servicesEnergy management solutionsand services, includingdemand response andautomationSecurity and assetmanagement solutions andservicesEnterprise building
 integrationsolutionsBuilding information servicesAirport lighting and
 systems,visual docking guidancesystemsBuilding managers and ownersContractors, architects anddevelopersConsulting engineersSecurity directorsPlant managersUtilitiesLarge global corporationsPublic school systemsUniversitiesLocal governmentsPublic housing agenciesAirportsAmerescoChevronGroupMacIngersoll RandInvensysJohnson ControlsLocal contractorsand utilitiesSafegateSchneiderSiemensTraneThornUnited Technologies












Performance
 Materials and Technologies



Our Performance Materials and Technologies segment is a global leader
 in providing customers with leading technologies and high-performance
 materials, including hydrocarbon processing technologies, catalysts,
 adsorbents, equipment and services, fluorine products, specialty films and
 additives, advanced fibers and composites, intermediates, specialty
 chemicals, electronic materials and chemicals.



Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



Resins & chemicalsNylon 6 polymerCaprolactamAmmonium sulfatePhenolAcetoneCyclohexanoneMEKONylon for carpet fibers,Engineered resins andflexible packagingFertilizer ingredientsResins - Phenolic, Epoxy,PolycarbonateSoventsChemical intermediatesPaints, Coatins, LaquersBASFDSMSinopecUBEINEOSMitsuiShellPolimeri



Hydrofluoric acid (HF)Anhydrous and aqueoushydrofluoric acidFluorocarbonsMetals processingOil refiningChemical intermediatesSemiconductors PhotovoltaicsMexichem FluorSolvay



FluorocarbonsRefrigerants, aerosol andinsulation foam blowingagentsGenesolv®solventsOxyfume sterilant gasesEnnovate 3000 blowing agentfor refrigeration insulationRefrigerationAir conditioningPolyurethane foamPrecision cleaningOpticalAppliancesHospitalsMedical equipmentManufacturersArkemaDupontSolvayMexichem FluorDaikinSinochem



Nuclear servicesUF6 conversion servicesNuclear fuelElectric utilitiesCamecoComurhexRosatom



Research and finechemicalsOxime-based fine chemicalsFluoroaromaticsHigh-purity solventsAgrichemicalsBiotechAveciaDegussaDSME. MerckThermo FisherScientificLonzaSigma-Aldrich



Performance
 chemicalsImaging
 chemicalsChemical processingsealantsHF
 derivativesFluoroaromaticsCatalystsOxime-silanesDiverse by product typeAtotechBASFDSM



Advanced fibers &High modulus polyethyleneBullet resistant vests,
 helmetsDuPont










Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey Competitors



compositesfiber and shield compositesAramid shield compositesand other armor applicationsCut-resistant
 glovesRope & cordageDSMTeijin



Healthcare and packagingCast nylon filmBi-axially oriented nylon
 filmFluoropolymer filmFood and pharmaceuticalpackagingAmerican BiaxisCFPDaikinKolonUnitika



Specialty additivesPolyethylene waxesParaffin waxes and blendsPVC lubricant systemsProcessing aidsLuminescent pigments
 AdhesivesCoatings and inksPVC pipe, siding &
 profilesPlasticsReflective coatingsSafety & security
 applicationsBASFClariantWestlake



Electronic chemicalsUltra high-purity HFInorganic acidsHi-purity solventsSemiconductorsPhotovoltaicsKMGBASF



Semiconductor materialsand servicesInterconnect-dielectricsInterconnect-metalsSemiconductor packagingmaterialsAdvanced polymersAnti-reflective coatingsThermo-couplesSemiconductorsMicroelectronicsTelecommunicationsLEDPhotovoltaicsBASFBrewerDowNikkoPraxairShinkoTosoh



Catalysts, adsorbents andspecialtiesCatalystsMolecular sievesAdsorbentsCustomer catalystmanufacturingPetroleum, refining,petrochemical, gasprocessing, andmanufacturing industriesAxensBASFWR GraceHaldorShell/Criterion



Process technologyand equipmentTechnology licensing andengineering design ofprocess units and systemsEngineered productsProprietary equipmentTraining and development oftechnical personnelGas processing technologyPetroleum refining,petrochemical and gasprocessingAxensBP/AmocoExxon-MobilChevron LummusGlobalChicago Bridge &IronKoch GlitschLinde AGNatcoShaw GroupShell/SGS



Renewable fuels andchemicalsTechnology licensing ofProcess, catalysts,
 absorbents,Refining equipment andservices for producingrenewable-based fuelsand chemicalsMilitary, refining, fuel
 oil,power productionNeste OyLurgiKiorSyntroleumDynamotive










Transportation
 SystemsOur Transportation Systems segment is one of the leading
 manufacturers of engine boosting systems for passenger cars and commercial
 vehicles, as well as a leading provider of braking products.Product/Service ClassesMajor Products/ServicesMajor Customers/UsesKey CompetitorsCharge-air systemsTurbochargers for gasolineand diesel enginesPassenger car, truck andoff-highway OEMsEngine manufacturersAftermarket distributors anddealersBorg-WarnerHolsetIHIMHIThermal systemsExhaust gas coolersCharge-air coolersAluminum radiatorsAluminum cooling modulesPassenger car, truck andoff-highway OEMsEngine manufacturersAftermarket distributors anddealersBehrModineValeoBrake hard parts and otherfriction materialsDisc brake pads and shoesDrum brake liningsBrake blocksDisc and drum brakecomponentsBrake hydraulic componentsBrake fluidAircraft brake liningsRailway liningsAutomotive and heavy vehicleOEMs, OES, brakemanufacturers andaftermarket channelsInstallersRailway and
 commercial/militaryaircraft OEMs and brakemanufacturersAdvicsAkebonoContinentalFederal-MogulITT CorpJBINisshinboTRW

Aerospace Sales

Our sales to
aerospace customers were 31, 33, and 36 percent of our total sales in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 6, 6 and 7 percent of our total sales in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket
customers of aerospace products and services were 11 percent of our total sales
in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our Aerospace results of operations can be
impacted by various industry and economic conditions. See “Item 1A. Risk
Factors.”

U.S. Government Sales

Sales to the
U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its
various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to
$4,276, $4,354 and $4,288 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which
included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and
subcontractor, of $3,374, $3,500 and $3,455 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Base U.S. defense spending (excludes Overseas Contingent
Operations) was essentially flat in 2011 compared to 2010. Although we expect a
slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2012 (see Item 7 Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), we
do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any
proposed changes in 2012 federal defense spending due principally to the varied
mix of the government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering
development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs) as
well as our diversified commercial businesses. Our contracts with the U.S.
Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the
government. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Backlog






Our total
backlog at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $16,160 and $14,616 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $12,018 million of the 2011 backlog
will be filled in 2012. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable
indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders
constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer’s option.

Competition

We are subject
to active competition in substantially all product and service areas.
Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive
conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by
us, and vary by country. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such
as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance,
applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity,
service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our
products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other
competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development
efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position
varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant
competitor in each of our major product and service classes. A number of our
products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of
other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and
significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products
compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment
manufacturers. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for further discussion.

International Operations

We are
engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally.
U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our
operations. U.S. exports comprised 12, 11 and 12 percent of our total sales in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Foreign manufactured products and services,
mainly in Europe and Asia, were 43, 42 and 40 percent of our total sales in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Approximately
18 percent of total 2011 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were
exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services
such as aircraft repair and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe,
Asia, Canada, and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and
performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2011
Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in
Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.

Approximately
3 percent of total 2011 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products and
services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured
products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2011
Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe and Asia, with less significant operations in
Canada and Australia.

Approximately
34 percent of total 2011 sales of Performance Materials and Technologies products
and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were
principally made to Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and
performance of services comprised 25 percent of total 2011 Performance
Materials and Technologies sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia.

Approximately
3 percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems products were exports
of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 85
percent of total 2011 sales of Transportation Systems. The principal
manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant
operations in Asia and Latin America.

Financial
information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic
areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Information regarding the
economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international
operations is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Raw Materials

The
principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available.
Although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we
experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and
commodities in 2011. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a material






amount of
our raw materials, except related to R240 (a key component in foam blowing
agents), a raw material used in our Performance Materials and Technologies
segment.

The costs of
certain key raw materials, including cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene,
R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene in our Performance Materials and
Technologies business, nickel, steel and other metals in our Transportation
Systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace
business, are expected to remain volatile. We will continue to attempt to
offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements,
price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently
anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse
impacts during 2012. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and
Distribution Rights

Our
segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents,
or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large
number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of
many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those
products and which are of importance to our business. From time to time, new
patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and
rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying
terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. In our
judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe
that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses
are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related
to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to
our total business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.

We
have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including
Honeywell, Aclar, Ademco, Bendix, BW, Callidus, Enovate, Esser, Fire-Lite,
Garrett, Genetron, Gent, Howard Leight, Jurid, Matrikon, Maxon, MK, North,
Notifier, Novar, RMG, Silent Knight, Spectra, System Sensor, Trend, Tridium and
UOP.

Research and Development

Our
research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new
products, technologies and processes, and the development of new uses for
existing products and software applications. The Company’s principal research
and development activities are in the U.S., India, Europe and China.

Research
and development (R&D) expense totaled $1,799, $1,450 and $1,321 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in R&D expense of 24 percent in 2011
compared to 2010 was mainly due to increased expenditures on the development of
new technologies to support existing and new aircraft platforms in our
Aerospace segment, the development of turbocharging systems for new diesel and
gas applications in our Transportation Systems segment and new product
development in our Automation and Control Solutions segment. The increase in
R&D expense of 10 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 was mainly due to
additional product design and development costs in Automation and Control
Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of products for new
aircraft platforms. R&D as a percentage of sales was 4.9, 4.5 and 4.4
percent in2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the
U.S. Government) R&D activities amounted to an additional $867, $874 and
$852 million in2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Environment

We
are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government
requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. It is our policy to
comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial
liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage
is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with
other companies engaged in similar businesses.

We
are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of
many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. We
believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and
personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these
substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It
is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as
improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly
strict






environmental laws and standards and
enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling,
manufacture, use or disposal of these substances.

Among
other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and
similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been
designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup
costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous
waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
Superfund priority list. Although, under some court interpretations of these
laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more
than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain
appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to
bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations
taken as a whole.

We do not
believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or
international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material
effect in the foreseeable future on the Company’s business or markets that it
serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial
position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.

Further
information, including the current status of significant environmental matters
and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental
matters, if any, is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Note 21 of Notes to
Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Employees

We have
approximately 132,000 employees at December 31, 2011, of which approximately
53,000 were located in the United States.








