10-K


l99510ae10vk.htm

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION           12-31-2002

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION           12-31-2002

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2002

or

o

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number

1-9518

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

34-0963169

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(440) 461-5000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Shares, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

þ

Yes

o

No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at June 30, 2002: $11,364,932,411

The number of the Registrant’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, outstanding as
of February 28, 2003: 218,215,011

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement, which includes the Annual Report to Shareholders, dated March 14, 2003, for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 18, 2003, are incorporated
by reference in Parts I, II, III and IV hereof.


INTRODUCTION

Portions of the information included in The Progressive Corporation’s Proxy
Statement dated March 14, 2003, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on April 18, 2003 (the “Proxy Statement”) have been incorporated by
reference herein and are identified under the appropriate items in this Form
10-K. The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries’ (collectively, the
“Company”) 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders (the
“Annual Report”), which is included
as an Appendix to the Company’s Proxy Statement, is included as Exhibit 13
to this Form 10-K. Cross references to relevant sections of the Annual Report
are included under the appropriate items of this Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

(a)

General Development of Business

The Progressive insurance organization began business in 1937. The Progressive
Corporation, an insurance holding company formed in 1965, has 69 subsidiaries,
1 mutual insurance company affiliate and 1 reciprocal insurance company
affiliate. The Progressive Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates
provide personal automobile insurance and other specialty property-casualty
insurance and related services throughout the United States. The Company’s
property-casualty insurance products protect its customers against collision
and physical damage to their motor vehicles and liability to others for
personal injury or property damage arising out of the use of those vehicles.
The Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries generally support the Company’s
insurance and investment operations.

(b)

Financial Information About Industry Segments

Incorporated by reference from Note 9, Segment Information, on pages App.-B-16
and App.-B-17 of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included
 as Exhibit 13
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(c)

Narrative Description of Business

The Company offers a number of personal and commercial property-casualty
insurance products primarily related to motor vehicles. Net premiums written
were $9.45 billion in 2002, compared to $7.26 billion in 2001 and $6.20 billion
in 2000. The underwriting profit was 7.6% in 2002, compared to an underwriting
profit of 4.8% in 2001 and an underwriting loss of 4.4% in 2000.

Personal Lines

The Company’s Personal Lines segment writes insurance for private passenger
automobiles and recreation and other vehicles. This business frequently offers
more than one program in a single state, with each targeted to a specific
market or customer group. Personal Lines accounted for 88% of total net
premiums written in 2002, compared to 89% in 2001 and 91% in 2000. The
Company’s strategy is to become the low-cost provider of a full line of auto
insurance products and related services, distributed through whichever channel
the customer prefers.

Of the approximately 210 United States insurance company groups writing private
passenger auto insurance, the Company ranked fourth in size for 2001 based on
direct premiums written and estimates that it ranked third in size for 2002.
For 2002, the estimated industry net premiums written, which include personal
auto insurance in the United States, were $141.0 billion, and the Company’s
share of this market was approximately 5.9%, compared to $127.8 billion and
5.1%, respectively, in 2001, and $119.6 billion and 4.7% in 2000. Except as
otherwise noted, all industry data and the Company’s market share or ranking in
the industry either were derived directly from data reported by A.M. Best
Company Inc. (“A.M. Best”) or were estimated using A.M. Best data as the
primary source.


Private passenger automobile insurance is comprised of preferred, standard and
nonstandard automobile risks. The Company actively participates in the
market for each of these risks, with the objective of offering a competitive
rate for every risk. Volume potential is driven by the Company’s ability to
price competitively, brand recognition and the actions of the Company’s
competitors, among other factors. See “Competitive Factors” on page 10 of this
report for further discussion.

The Company’s specialty Personal Lines products include insurance for
motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles and
similar items. The Company’s competitors are specialty companies and large
multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not available,
based on the Company’s analysis of this market, the Company believes that it is
one of the largest participants in the specialty personal lines market. The
Company became the market share leader for personal watercraft in 2002, and has
been the market share leader for the motorcycle product since 1998.

The Company discontinued writing new homeowner’s insurance in all states
effective May 3, 2002. This action was taken because the homeowner’s product
did not meet the Company’s goal of attracting more standard and preferred auto
business by packaging a homeowner’s product with its auto product. The Company
sold the homeowner’s product in Arizona, Michigan, Maryland and Illinois
through a select number of independent agents. Prior to being discontinued,
the homeowner’s product accounted for less than one-tenth of one percent of
Personal Lines’ premiums written. To minimize the overall exposure, the Company
reinsured this risk through a 75% quota share agreement under which the Company
had a 25% net retention.

The Personal Lines business is generated either by an Agent or broker, or
written directly by the Company. The Agent channel includes business written
by the Company’s network of more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies,
located throughout the United States, insurance brokers in several states and
through strategic alliance business relationships. The independent insurance
agencies have the authority to bind the Company to specified insurance
coverages within prescribed underwriting guidelines, subject to compliance with
certain Company-mandated procedures. These guidelines prescribe the kinds and
amounts of coverage that may be written and the premium rates that may be
charged for specified categories of risk. The agencies and brokers do not have
authority on behalf of the Company to settle or adjust claims, establish
underwriting guidelines, develop rates or enter into other transactions or
commitments. The Agent channel also establishes alliances with other insurance
companies, financial institutions, employers and national brokerage agencies.
In 2002, the total net premiums written through the Agent channel represented
70% of the Personal Lines volume, compared to 71% in 2001 and 77% in 2000.

Direct business includes business written through 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at
progressive.com and on behalf of affinity groups. Net premiums written in the
Direct business were 30%, 29% and 23% of the Personal Lines volume in 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively.

In 2000, the Company introduced its service to coordinate vehicle claim
repairs, providing customers with a simpler way of getting their cars fixed
following an accident. In cities where new claims centers are located,
customers may choose to bring their vehicles directly to the claims center and
pick up a rental vehicle. The Company will write the estimate, select a
qualified repair shop and inspect the vehicle after the repairs are complete.
This service reforms the vehicle repair process, increases consumer
satisfaction, increases the Company’s productivity, and improves the cycle time
and quality of repairs. The original pilot sites for this service were
Cleveland, Philadelphia, Tampa and Virginia Beach. The pilot was expanded to
three additional sites in 2002. The prototypes met the Company’s acceptance
criteria and 20 more sites are planned for 2003.

Auto insurance differs greatly by community because regulations and legal
decisions vary by state and because traffic, law enforcement, cultural
attitudes, insurance agents, medical services and auto repair services vary by
community. The Company’s organization enables it to meet varied local
conditions under a cohesive set of policies and procedures designed to provide
consistency and control. The Company’s business is organized into business
areas: Agent, Direct, Claims, and Sales and Service. The Agent, Direct and
Claims business areas are managed at a local level and divided into six
regions. Each business has a Group President and a process team, with local
managers at the state or regional level. Sales and Service ( which includes
customer service calls, direct sales calls and claims loss reporting, among
other services) is performed at six regional sites in Austin, Texas; Cleveland,
Ohio; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Sacramento, California; Tampa, Florida; and
Tempe, Arizona.


The Company’s executive management team sets policy and makes key strategic
decisions, and includes the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Legal Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Information Officer and
Chief Human Resources Officer, as well as the Company’s four Group Presidents
(Agent, Direct, Claims, and Sales and Service). The Group Presidents are
challenged to develop and manage product offerings and customer service
processes tailored to the unique requirements of customers who select
Progressive as their auto insurance carrier and buy policies through the
distribution mode of their choice.

Commercial Auto

The Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and
other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small
businesses and represented 11% of the Company’s total net premiums written in
2002. Although the Commercial Auto business differs from Personal Lines auto,
it requires the same fundamental skills that drive the Company’s Personal Lines
business, which include disciplined underwriting and pricing, as well as
excellent claim service. The Company’s Commercial Auto business is primarily
distributed through the independent agent channel. The Commercial Vehicle
business unit is currently operating in a market where average premiums are
increasing. Based on the Company’s analysis of this market, the Company
competes for this business on a nationwide basis with approximately 150 other
companies. The Company estimates that the Commercial Auto business currently
ranks fifth in market share nationally.

Other Businesses

The Company’s other lines of business include the Lenders’ Collateral
Protection Group (LCPG), Professional Liability Group (PLG) and Motor Carrier
business unit, which are organized by customer group and headquartered in
Cleveland, Ohio. These businesses accounted for approximately 1% of total
revenue in 2002. The choice of distribution channel is driven by each customer
group’s buying preference and service needs. Distribution channels include
independent agents, financial institutions, vehicle dealers and
company-employed sales forces. Distribution arrangements are individually
negotiated between such intermediaries and the Company and are tailored to the
specific needs of the customer group and the nature of the related financial or
purchase transactions.

LCPG primarily provides physical damage insurance and related tracking services
to protect the commercial or retail lender’s interest in collateral which is
not otherwise insured against these risks. The principal product offered is
collateral protection insurance for automobile lenders, which is sold to
financial institutions and/or their customers. Commercial banks and finance
companies are LCPG’s largest customer group for these services. This business
also serves savings and loan institutions and credit unions. During 2002, the
Company lost some key accounts. According to the Company’s analysis, this
market, as well as the Company’s share of the market, are declining in size.
LCPG represented less than 1% of the Company’s total 2002 net premiums written.
The Company is pursuing alternative approaches for exiting this line of
business.

PLG’s principal customers are community banks. Its principal products are
liability insurance for directors and officers and employee dishonesty
insurance. Progressive shares the risk and premium on these coverages with a
small mutual reinsurer controlled by its bank customers and various other
reinsurance entities. The program is sponsored by the American Bankers
Association. The risk on these coverages is also reinsured by various
reinsurance entities. PLG represented less than one-fourth of one percent of
the Company’s total 2002 net premiums written.

The Motor Carrier business unit primarily processes business for Commercial
Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), which are state supervised plans serving the
involuntary markets. The Motor Carrier business unit processes CAIP business
in 26 states. As a CAIP servicing carrier, this business unit processes over
50% of the premiums in the CAIP market, which is growing in size, and assumes
no indemnity risk. To the extent the Company fails to comply with contractual
service standards, the Company would be restricted from ceding business to the
CAIP plan. The Company competes with two other providers nationwide.

Risk Factors

The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of
which are discussed in this section. This information should be considered
carefully together with the other information contained in this report and in
the other


reports and materials filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), as well as news releases and other information publicly
disseminated by the Company from time to time.

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the
Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company
or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the
Company’s business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develop
into actual events, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the
trading price of the Company’s Common Shares could decline materially.

The automobile insurance and other
property-casualty markets in which the Company operates are highly
competitive.

The Company faces vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national
companies and from smaller regional insurers. Other large national and
international insurance or financial services companies may also enter these
markets in the future. Many of these companies may have greater financial,
marketing and management resources than the Company. In addition, competitors
may offer consumers combinations of auto policies and other insurance products
or financial services which the Company is currently unable to offer. The
Company could be adversely affected by a loss of business to competitors
offering similar insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled
products or services and by other competitor initiatives.

The Company implements initiatives and strategies to maintain and improve its
competitive position in auto insurance markets. In addition, the Company
undertakes distinctive advertising and other efforts to improve brand
recognition and drive growth. If these initiatives or advertising campaigns
are unsuccessful or are less effective than those of competitors, the Company’s
business could be adversely affected.

The highly competitive nature of the markets in which the Company competes
could also result in the failure of one or more major competitors. In the
event of a failure of a major competitor, the Company could be adversely
affected as the Company and other insurance companies are forced to absorb the
losses of the failed insurer under state-mandated plans, and as the Company is
faced with an unexpected surge in new business from the failed insurer’s former
policyholders.

The ability to attract and retain talented employees, managers and executives
is critical to the Company’s success.

The Company’s ability to continue profitable growth and to remain a competitive
force in the marketplace depends, in part, on its ability to hire and train
talented new employees to handle work associated with the increase in new
inquiries, applications, policies and customers and to respond to the increase
in claims that will also result. In addition, the Company’s ability to
maintain appropriate staffing levels is affected by the rate of turnover of
existing, more experienced employees. The failure to meet these employment
goals could result in the Company having to slow down growth in the business
units or markets that are affected.

Likewise, the failure of the Company to train effectively new employees in the
claims area, and/or the loss of a significant number of experienced claims
representatives and managers, could result in the claims organization’s
inability to handle an increasing workload. In addition to potentially
requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, this failure could
result in decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower the
Company’s operating margins.

The Company’s success also depends on its ability to attract and retain
talented executives and other key managers. The Company’s loss of certain key
officers and employees or the failure to attract talented new executives and
managers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.

The Company further believes that its success depends on its ability to
maintain and improve its staffing models and employee culture that have been
developed over the years. The Company’s ability to do so may be impaired as a
result of litigation against the Company, new legislation at the state or
federal level or other factors in the employment marketplace. In such events,
the productivity of certain of the Company’s workers could be adversely
affected, which could lead to an erosion of the Company’s operating performance
and margins.

The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex
federal and state laws and regulations.

The Company’s insurance businesses operate in a highly regulated environment.
The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision
by state insurance departments in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.


State insurance laws and regulations are complex, and each jurisdiction’s
requirements are different. Certain states impose restrictions or require
prior regulatory approval of certain actions, which may adversely affect the
insurance subsidiaries’ ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate
adjustments in a timely manner, or grow their businesses profitably. In
addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on insurers. The
Company’s ability to comply with these laws and regulations, and to obtain
necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will continue to be
critical to its success.

The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions
by regulators, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of a
subsidiary’s ability to do business in that jurisdiction. In addition, the
Company and its subsidiaries can face individual and class action lawsuits by
its insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws
or regulations.

In recent years, legislation, voter initiatives and other regulatory actions
have dealt with, among other issues:

Compliance with laws and regulations addressing these and other issues often
will result in increased administrative costs to the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries. In addition, such laws and regulations may limit the insurance
subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent the
subsidiaries from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to cover increased
costs, and may restrict the subsidiaries’ ability to discontinue unprofitable
business or exit unprofitable markets. These results, in turn, may adversely
affect the Company’s profitability or its ability or desire to grow its
business in the applicable jurisdictions.

State insurance regulation may create risk and uncertainties for the Company’s
insurance subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these
risks and uncertainties, see the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on
page 11 of this report.

Moreover, new legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future. Such
enactments may adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to
write business profitably in one or more states. In such events, the Company
may seek to reduce its writings in, or to withdraw entirely from, those states.
In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal
agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to
determine whether federal regulation is necessary. The Company is unable to
predict whether and to what extent new laws and regulations that would affect
the Company’s business will be adopted in the future, the timing of any such
adoption and what effects, if any, they may have on the Company’s operations,
profitability and financial condition.

Lawsuits challenging various aspects of the Company’s business practices
continue to be filed against the Company and its
subsidiaries.

The Company is named as a defendant in a number of putative class actions and
other lawsuits challenging aspects of the Company’s business operations. These
lawsuits include cases alleging damages as a result of the Company’s use of
after-market parts, total loss evaluation methodology, the use of alternative
commissions, the use of credit in underwriting, the alleged diminution in value
of vehicles which are involved in accidents, the methods used by the
subsidiaries for evaluating certain bodily injury claims, the subsidiaries’
methods for evaluating and paying certain personal injury protection claims,
the Company’s classification of employees under federal and state wage and hour
laws, and other cases. Other litigation may be filed against the Company in
the future concerning these or other of the Company’s business practices.
Litigation, by its very nature, is unpredictable and the outcome of these cases
is uncertain. Further, except to the extent the Company has established loss
reserves with respect to particular cases, the Company is unable to predict the
effect, if any, that these pending or future cases may have on the business,
operations, profitability or financial condition of the Company. For further
information on pending litigation, see Note 11, Litigation, on pages App.-B-18
and App.-B-19 of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included
as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


The Company’s success depends on its ability to underwrite risks accurately and
to charge adequate rates to policyholders.

The Company’s operating performance and financial condition depend on the
Company’s ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of
risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to offset
losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a
profit. If the Company fails to assess accurately the risks that it assumes,
the Company may fail to establish adequate premium rates, which could reduce
income and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results or
financial condition.

In order to price accurately, the Company must collect and properly analyze a
substantial volume of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating
formulae; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trend; and project
both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. The Company’s
ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price
accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including,
without limitation:

Such risks may result in the Company’s pricing being based on inadequate or
inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and
may cause the Company to estimate incorrectly future increases in the frequency
or severity of claims. As a result, the Company could underprice risks, which
would negatively affect the Company’s margins, or it could overprice risks,
which could reduce the Company’s volume and competitiveness. In either event,
the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.

The Company’s financial performance may also be materially adversely affected
by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic losses.

The Company continues to be exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions
and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as
hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter
weather and fires, and other events, such as an explosion, terrorist attacks or
riots. The extent of insured losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
the Company’s total insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the
severity of the event. In addition, the Company’s business could be further
impaired if a significant portion of its business or systems were shut down by
such an event. Some catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas;
however, hurricanes, tornadoes, winter storms, windstorms, earthquakes,
terrorist attacks and other man-made catastrophes, may produce significant
damage over large, heavily populated areas. Most of the Company’s past
catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. The incidence and
severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. When they occur with
enough severity, the Company’s financial performance could be materially
adversely affected.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to establish accurate loss
reserves and to adjust claims accurately.

The Company’s financial statements include loss reserves, which represent the
Company’s best estimate of the amounts that the Company will ultimately pay on
claims, and the related costs of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the
financial statements. There is inherent uncertainty in the process of
establishing property and casualty loss reserves, which arises from a number of
factors, including:

•

the possibility of insufficient credible data,

•

the difficulty in predicting the rate of inflation in various markets and the rate and direction of changes in trend,

•

new or changing interpretations of insurance policy provisions by courts,


As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, ultimate paid losses
and loss adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from
point-in-time estimates of losses included in the loss reserves in the
Company’s financial statements. The Company’s actual claim payments may exceed
its claim reserves, causing the Company to incur losses the Company did not
anticipate, and its earnings may be significantly and negatively affected as a
result. Consequently, ultimate losses could materially exceed loss reserves
and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations,
liquidity or financial position. Further information on the Company’s loss
reserves can be found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss
Adjustment Expenses” discussion beginning on page 14 of this report, as well as
the Company’s Report on Loss Reserving Practices, which was filed with the SEC
on Form 8-K on July 1, 2002.

Likewise, the Company must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made
under its policies. Many factors affect the Company’s ability to pay claims
accurately, including the training and experience of the Company’s claims
representatives, the claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of its
management, the Company’s ability to develop or select and implement
appropriate procedures and systems to support its claims functions, and other
factors. The Company’s failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material
litigation, undermine the Company’s reputation in the marketplace, impair the
Company’s brand image and materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
results and liquidity.

The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of its business
functions, including its information technology and other business systems.

The Company’s employees use its facilities and systems to process the
day-to-day work generated by the Company’s operations. Included in this work
are support for the Company’s agent and direct auto insurance businesses,
including Internet support and 24-hour call centers, processing new and renewal
business, processing and paying claims, actuarial and other functions necessary
for underwriting and rate development, corporate support functions and other
operations. The Company’s business is highly dependent upon its ability to
perform these functions in an uninterrupted fashion.

A sustained shut-down of one or more of the Company’s facilities, or a failure
of one or more of the Company’s information technology, telecommunications or
other business systems, could significantly impair the Company’s ability to
perform these functions on a timely basis. In addition, because the Company’s
information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend
on third party systems, the Company could experience service denials if demand
for such service exceeds capacity or third party systems fail or experience
interruptions. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems
failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of the Company’s
ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer
service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary corporate
functions. This could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business results.

To help maintain functionality and reduce the risk of significant interruptions
of its operations, the Company maintains redundant systems or facilities for
certain of its principal systems and services; however, these efforts may prove
unsuccessful against severe, multiple or prolonged interruptions of the
Company’s business or against interruptions of systems where no redundancy
currently exists. In addition, the Company has established an emergency
management team comprised of senior managers from various corporate functions
who are responsible for responding to business disruptions and other risk
events. The emergency management team’s ability to respond successfully to
certain of these events may be limited, however, since the Company has not
completely developed the plans necessary to maintain business continuity for
some significant business interruption scenarios. The Company maintains
insurance on its real property and other physical assets, which includes
coverage for losses due to business interruptions caused by covered property
damage. However, this insurance will not compensate the Company for losses
that may occur due to


disruptions in service as a result of a computer, data processing or
telecommunications systems failure that is unrelated to covered property
damage; nor will such business interruption insurance necessarily compensate
the Company for all losses resulting from covered events.

A security breach of the Company’s computer systems could interrupt its
operations or damage its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject
to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its
computer systems. Despite the implementation of security measures, including
hiring an independent firm to perform intrusion vulnerability testing of the
Company’s computer systems, this infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical
break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or
similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could
deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting
confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could result in a
material, adverse effect on the Company’s business.

The performance of the Company’s investment portfolio is subject to a number of
investment risks.

Investments in the Company’s investment portfolio have varying degrees of risk.
The most significant risk to the fixed-income portfolio is interest rate risk,
including movements in the underlying market rates and changes in the credit
spreads of the respective sectors of the fixed-income securities held. In
addition, the fixed-income portfolio is subject to credit risk, i.e., that the
value of or income from instruments held would be impaired due to the
deterioration in financial condition of one or more issuers of those
instruments.

The common equity portfolio is managed to the Russell 1000 index, and is
generally subject to the risk of equity market volatility. A sustained decline
in the value of the equities that make up the index could result in a
substantial decline in the value of the Company’s equity portfolio.

In addition, both portfolios are subject to risks inherent in the nation’s and
the world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of
the investments held by the Company and the Company’s ability to liquidate
investments on short notice may be adversely affected if those markets are
disrupted by national or international events including, without limitation,
wars, terrorist attacks, recessions or depressions, high inflation or a
deflationary environment, the collapse of governments or financial markets, and
other factors or events.

If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by
market or issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, the Company’s
liquidity, financial position and financial results could be materially
adversely affected. Further, the Company’s income from these investments could
be materially reduced, and write-downs of the value of certain securities could
further reduce the Company’s profitability. In addition, a decrease in value
of the Company’s investment portfolio could put the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory capital requirements. If
the Company was not at that time able to supplement its capital by issuing debt
or equity securities on acceptable terms, the Company’s ability to continue
growing could be adversely affected.

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends
that they can pay to the Company, which in turn may limit the Company’s ability
to pay dividends to shareholders, repay indebtedness or make capital
contributions to subsidiaries or affiliates.

The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of
its own. Consequently, if the Company’s subsidiaries are unable to pay
dividends or make other distributions to the holding company, or are able to
pay only limited amounts, the holding company may be unable to pay dividends to
shareholders, to make payments on its indebtedness or to make capital
contributions or otherwise fund its subsidiaries or affiliates. Each
subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be limited by
one or more of the following factors:

•

State insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to
maintain specified levels of statutory capital and surplus.

•

Competitive pressures require the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to
maintain financial strength ratings.

•

Prior regulatory approval from state regulatory authorities may be
required in certain jurisdictions for the insurance subsidiaries to
declare and pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated
entities, including the Company.

Further information on state insurance laws and regulations which may limit the
ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found
in Item 5(c), “Subsidiary Dividends,” on page 18 of this report.


The price of the Company’s stock may vary significantly based on investors’
perceptions of the Company’s reported performance, public statements or
corporate governance issues.

The Company believes that shareholder value will be increased in the long run
if the Company meets or exceeds certain financial goals and policies
established by the Company. The Company does not manage its business to
maximize short-term stock performance. The Company does not provide earnings
guidance to the market and does not comment on earnings estimates by analysts.
As a result, the Company’s reported results for a particular period may vary,
perhaps significantly, from investors’ expectations, which could result in
significant volatility in the Company’s stock price.

The Company publicly announces its underwriting results on a monthly basis, in
addition to the traditional quarterly and annual announcements and public
filings required by law. The Company believes that this level of reporting
provides more and faster disclosure to shareholders and potential investors,
enabling them to better understand the Company’s underwriting performance.
Such reports, however, may show a degree of variation in results that investors
might not see in a quarterly report, which could result in significant
volatility in the Company’s stock price.

Similarly, under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to
record a significant loss or establish a significant reserve in a specific
monthly or quarterly reporting period in the event of a catastrophic loss,
development(s) in litigation against the Company or other extraordinary events.
Such events may make the Company’s reported results appear volatile and could
adversely affect the market for the Company’s stock.

The Company has adopted certain corporate governance policies and procedures,
and the Company must further satisfy the complex requirements of applicable
law, SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange listing standards with respect
to such matters, which are currently evolving. While the Company intends to
fully comply with all such laws, regulations and standards and believes that
its corporate governance program has been designed in the best interests of the
Company and its shareholders, it is possible that investors or independent
advisory firms may disagree with one or more aspects of the Company’s
governance program and may publicize that disagreement, which could adversely
affect the market for the Company’s stock.

Competitive Factors

The automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets in which the
Company operates are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally
compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claim
handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage.
Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies,
some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents,
and by smaller regional insurers. While the Company relies heavily on
technology and extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and
price according to risk potential, some competitors merely price their coverage
at rates set lower than the Company’s published rates. By avoiding extensive
data gathering and analysis, these competitors incur lower underwriting
expenses. The Company has remained competitive by closely managing expenses
and achieving operating efficiencies, and by refining its risk measurement and
price segmentation skills. Superior customer service, claim adjusting and
strong brand recognition are also important factors in the Company’s
competitive strategy.


State Insurance Licenses

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various
insurance authorities. These licenses may be of perpetual duration or
renewable periodically, provided the holder continues to meet applicable
regulatory requirements. The licenses govern the kinds of insurance coverages
that may be written in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued
only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of
prescribed criteria. All licenses, which are material to the subsidiaries’
businesses, are in good standing.

Insurance Regulation

The insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision
by insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
licensed to transact business. At least one of the insurance subsidiaries is
licensed and subject to regulation in each of the 50 states and the District of
Columbia. The nature and extent of such regulation and supervision varies from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, an insurance company is subject to a
higher degree of regulation and supervision in its state of domicile. The
Company’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates are domiciled in the states of
Arizona, California, Colorado, Illinois, Florida, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin.
State insurance departments have broad administrative power relating to
licensing insurers and agents, regulating premium rates and policy forms,
establishing reserve requirements, prescribing statutory accounting methods and
the form and content of statutory financial reports, and regulating the type
and amount of investments permitted. Rate regulation varies from “file and
use” to prior approval to mandated rates. Most jurisdictions prohibit rates
that are “excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory.”

Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that
insurance companies maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a
variety of operational standards. Insurance companies are generally required
to file detailed annual and other reports with the insurance department of each
jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments are
authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers’
financial condition and operations to monitor financial stability of the
insurers and to ensure adherence to statutory accounting principles and
compliance with state insurance laws and regulations.

Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance
authorities the power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other
transactions and to require periodic disclosure of certain information. These
laws impose prior approval requirements for certain transactions between
regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally regulate dividend and
other distributions, including loans and cash advances, between regulated
insurers and their affiliates. See the “Subsidiary Dividends” discussion in
Item 5(c) for further information on these dividend limitations.

Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed or
required to contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses
resulting from the insolvency of other insurers. Insurers are also required
by many states, as a condition of doing business in the state, to provide
coverage to certain risks which are not insurable in the voluntary market.
These “assigned risk” plans generally specify the types of insurance and the
level of coverage which must be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as
the allowable premium. Many states also have involuntary market plans which
hire a limited number of servicing carriers to provide insurance to involuntary
risks. These plans, through assessments, pass underwriting and administrative
expenses on to insurers that write voluntary coverages in those states.

Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain
sufficient surplus to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings
to surplus that the regulators will allow is a function of a number of factors,
including the type of business being written, the adequacy of the insurer’s
reserves, the quality of the insurer’s assets and the identity of the
regulator, as a general rule, the regulators prefer that annual net premiums
written be not more than three times the insurer’s total policyholders’
surplus. Thus, the amount of an insurer’s surplus may, in certain cases, limit
its ability to grow its business. The National Association of Insurance
Commissioners also has developed a risk-based capital (RBC) program to enable
regulators to take appropriate and timely regulatory actions relating to
insurers that show signs of weak or deteriorating financial condition. RBC is
a series of dynamic surplus-related formulas which contain a variety of factors
that are applied to financial balances based on a degree of certain risks, such
as asset, credit and underwriting risks.


Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a
market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to
cancel or non-renew policies. Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer
from withdrawing one or more lines of business from the state, except pursuant
to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state
insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption.
Laws and regulations that limit cancellation or non-renewal and that subject
program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s
ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and
developments arise. Some changes may be due to economic developments, such as
changes in investment laws made to recognize new investment vehicles; other
changes result from such general pressures as consumer resistance to price
increases and concerns relating to insurer solvency. In recent years,
legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced, and in some cases
adopted, which deal with use of non-public consumer information, use of
financial responsibility and credit information in underwriting, insurance rate
development, rate determination and the ability of insurers to cancel or
non-renew insurance policies, reflecting concerns about consumer privacy,
coverage, availability, prices and alleged discriminatory pricing. In
addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal
agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to
determine whether federal regulation is necessary.

In a number of states the Company’s insurance subsidiaries use financial
responsibility or credit information (credit) as part of the underwriting or
rating process. This practice is expressly authorized by the federal Fair
Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and the Company’s data demonstrates that credit is
an effective predictor of insurance risk. The use of credit in underwriting
and rating is the subject of significant regulatory and legislative activity.
Regulators and legislators have expressed a number of concerns related to the
use of credit including: questions regarding the accuracy of credit reports,
perceptions that credit may have a disparate impact on the poor and certain
minority groups, the perceived lack of a demonstrated causal relationship
between credit and insurance risk, the treatment of persons with limited or no
credit, the impact of extraordinary life events (i.e., catastrophic injury or
death of a spouse), and concerns about the credit attributes applied in the
credit scoring models used by insurers. A number of state insurance
departments have issued bulletins, directives or regulations to regulate the
use of credit by insurers. In addition, a number of states are considering or
have passed legislation to regulate insurers’ use of credit. It is also
possible that, when Congress considers reauthorizing certain FCRA preemptions
due to expire on January 1, 2004, the use of credit in underwriting and rating
may be a subject of federal legislation.

In some states, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure in
past years from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce,
freeze or set rates to or at levels that are not necessarily related to
underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back automobile and other
personal lines rates. This kind of activity has adversely affected, and may in
the future adversely affect, the profitability and growth of the subsidiaries’
automobile insurance business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the
subsidiaries’ ability to increase rates to compensate for increases in costs.
Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the subsidiaries’ ability
to price automobile insurance adequately, or affecting the subsidiaries’
insurance operations adversely in other ways, may occur in the future. The
impact of these regulatory changes on the subsidiaries’ businesses cannot be
predicted.


Statutory Accounting Principles

The Company’s results are reported in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), which differ from amounts reported under
statutory accounting principles (SAP) prescribed by insurance regulatory
authorities. Specifically, under GAAP:

Investments

The Company employs a conservative approach to investment and capital
management intended to ensure that there is sufficient capital to support all
of the insurance premium that can be profitably written. The Company’s
portfolio is invested primarily in short-term and intermediate-term,
investment-grade fixed-income securities. The Company’s investment portfolio,
at market value, was $10.3 billion at December 31, 2002, compared to $8.2
billion at December 31, 2001. Investment income is affected by shifts in the
type and quality of investments in the portfolio, changes in interest rates and
other factors. Investment income, including net realized gains/losses on
securities, before expenses and taxes, was $376.6 million in 2002, compared
to $301.7 million in 2001 and $402.1 million in 2000. See Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
beginning on page App.-B-21 of the Company’s Annual Report, which is included
as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

The number of employees, excluding temporary employees, at December 31, 2002,
was 22,974.


Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (LAE) of the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries. The Company’s objective is to ensure that total reserves (i.e.
case and incurred but not reported reserves-IBNR) are adequate to cover all
loss costs, while sustaining minimal variation from the time reserves are
initially established until losses are fully developed. The liabilities for
losses and LAE are determined using actuarial and statistical procedures and
represent undiscounted estimates of the ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses
and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year. These estimates are subject
to the effect of future trends on claim settlement. These estimates are
continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops and new information
becomes known. Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in the current results
of operations.

The accompanying tables present an analysis of property-casualty losses and
LAE. The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
estimated liability balances for 2002, 2001 and 2000 on a GAAP basis.

During 2002, the Company experienced $3.5 million of unfavorable loss reserve
development, compared to $99.0 million of favorable development in 2001 and
$75.8 million of unfavorable development in 2000. During 2002, the Company
made no significant change to the estimate of loss reserves recorded in prior
years. The favorable development in 2001 is primarily attributable to the
settlement of claims at less than amounts reserved, while the prior year’s
adverse development reflected the Company’s effort to fully recognize the loss
trends that were emerging. The development in 2001 primarily relates to the
2000 accident year, while the majority of the 2000 unfavorable development
related to the 1999 accident year. The Company conducts extensive reviews each
month on portions of its business to help ensure that the Company is meeting
its objective of having reserves that are adequate, with minimal variation.

The anticipated effect of inflation is explicitly considered when estimating
liabilities for losses and LAE. While anticipated increases due to inflation
are considered in estimating the ultimate claim costs, the increase in average
severities of claims is caused by a number of factors that vary with the
individual type of policy written. Future average severities are projected
based on historical trends adjusted for anticipated changes in underwriting
standards, inflation, policy provisions and general economic trends. These
anticipated trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified
if necessary.

The Company has not entered into any loss reserve transfers or similar
transactions having a material effect on earnings or reserves.


ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT
(millions)

YEAR ENDED














LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE — GROSS

$

1,347.2

$

1,432.9

$

1,610.5

$

1,800.6

$

2,146.6

$

2,188.6

$

2,416.2

$

2,986.4

$

3,238.0

$

3,813.0

LESS: REINSURANCE
RECOVERABLE ON UNPAID
LOSSES

334.8

334.2

296.1

267.7

279.1

242.8

216.0

201.1

168.3

180.9

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE — NET


$

956.4

$

1,012.4

$

1,098.7

$

1,314.4

$

1,532.9

$

1,867.5

$

1,945.8

$

2,200.2

$

2,785.3

$

3,069.7

$

3,632.1

PAID (CUMULATIVE) AS OF:

One year later

366.8

417.0

525.3

593.0

743.6

922.0

1,082.8

1,246.5

1,409.3

1,601.7

Two years later

520.0

589.8

706.4

838.9

1,034.5

1,289.6

1,487.9

1,738.5

2,047.2

—

Three years later

598.2

664.1

810.6

960.1

1,266.1

1,474.9

1,680.6

2,001.4

—

—

Four years later

632.8

709.9

857.1

1,057.1

1,351.1

1,554.1

1,785.7

—

—

—

Five years later

658.6

729.8

892.7

1,092.5

1,384.0

1,596.7

—

—

—

—

Six years later

669.7

742.2

909.7

1,106.3

1,399.9

—

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

676.0

752.8

917.1

1,112.3

—

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

682.3

757.4

919.7

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

685.1

759.1

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

686.3

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

LIABILITY RE-ESTIMATED
AS OF:

One year later

857.9

869.9

1,042.1

1,208.6

1,429.6

1,683.3

1,916.0

2,276.0

2,686.3

3,073.2

Two years later

765.5

837.8

991.7

1,149.5

1,364.5

1,668.5

1,910.6

2,285.4

2,708.3

—

Three years later

737.4

811.3

961.2

1,118.6

1,432.3

1,673.1

1,917.3

2,277.7

—

—

Four years later

725.2

794.6

940.6

1,137.7

1,451.0

1,669.2

1,908.2

—

—

—

Five years later

717.3

782.9

945.5

1,153.3

1,445.1

1,664.7

—

—

—

—

Six years later

711.1

780.1

952.7

1,150.1

1,442.0

—

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

709.2

788.6

952.6

1,146.2

—

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

714.6

787.5

949.7

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

713.3

787.0

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

713.0

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT:

CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

243.4

$

225.4

$

149.0

$

168.2

$

90.9

$

202.8

$

37.6

$

(77.5

)

$

77.0

$

(3.5

)

PERCENTAGE


25.5

22.3

13.6

12.8

5.9

10.9

1.9

(3.5

)

2.8

(.1

)

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE — GROSS

$

1,037.5

$

1,201.3

$

1,396.6

$

1,715.0

$

1,928.7

$

2,139.5

$

2,489.2

$

2,892.5

$

3,231.7

LESS: RE-ESTIMATED
REINSURANCE RECOVERABLE
ON UNPAID LOSSES

250.5

251.6

250.4

273.0

264.0

231.3

211.5

184.2

158.5

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE


— NET

$

787.0

$

949.7

$

1,146.2

$

1,442.0

$

1,664.7

$

1,908.2

$

2,277.7

$

2,708.3

$

3,073.2

GROSS CUMULATIVE
DEVELOPMENT: CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

309.7

$

231.6

$

213.9

$

85.6

$

217.9

$

49.1

$

(73.0

)

$

93.9

$

6.3


Represents loss and LAE reserves net of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid
losses at the balance sheet date.


Cumulative development ÷ liability for unpaid losses and LAE.


In 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 113,
“Accounting and Reporting of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts,” and,
per the provisions of the Statement, began presenting its liability for unpaid
losses and LAE on a gross basis.


In 1994, based on a review of its total loss reserves, the Company eliminated
its $71.0 million “supplemental reserve.”


The above table presents the development of balance sheet liabilities for 1992
through 2001. The top line of the table shows the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years for the property-casualty insurance subsidiaries only. This
liability represents the estimated amount of losses and LAE for claims that are
unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but
not reported.

The table also presents the re-estimated liability for unpaid losses and LAE on
a gross basis, with separate disclosure of the re-estimated reinsurance
recoverables on unpaid losses. The presentation appears for all periods in
which the income recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards 113, “Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and
Long-Duration Contracts,” have been applied.

The upper section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to
the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. The
lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously
recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year.
The estimate is increased or decreased, as more information about the claims
becomes known for individual years. For example, as of December 31, 2002, the
companies had paid $759.1 million of the currently estimated $787.0 million of
losses and LAE that had been incurred through the end of 1993; thus an
estimated $27.9 million of losses incurred through 1993 remain unpaid as of the
current financial statement date.

The cumulative development represents the aggregate change in the estimates
over all prior years. For example, the 1992 liability has developed
conservatively by $243.4 million over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years and did not have a significant effect on
the income of any one year. The effects on income during the past three years
due to changes in estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE are shown in
the reconciliation table on page 14 as the “prior years” contribution to
incurred losses and LAE.

In evaluating this information, note that each cumulative development amount
includes the effects of all changes in amounts during the current year for
prior periods. For example, the amount of the development related to losses
settled in 1995, but incurred in 1992, will be included in the cumulative
development amount for years 1992, 1993 and 1994. Conditions and trends that
have affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily
occur in the future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to
extrapolate future development based on this table.

The Company experienced continually favorable reserve development through 1998
primarily due to the decreasing bodily injury severity. From the fourth
quarter 1993 continuously through the third quarter 1998, the Company’s bodily
injury severity decreased each quarter when compared to the same quarter the
prior year. This period of decreasing severity for the Company was not only
longer than that experienced by the industry but also longer than any time in
Progressive’s history. The reserves established as of the end of each year
assumed the current accident year’s severity to increase over the prior
accident year’s estimate. As the experience continued to be evaluated at later
dates, the realization of the decreased severity resulted in favorable reserve
development.

During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves, the
Company eliminated its $71.0 million “supplemental reserve.” Prior to 1994,
the Company established case and IBNR reserves by product with the objective of
being accurate to within plus or minus two percent. Pricing had been based on
these estimates of reserves by product. Because the Company desired a very
high degree of comfort that aggregate reserves were adequate, aggregate
reserves were established near the upper end of the reasonable range of
reserves, and the difference between such aggregate reserves and the midpoint
of the reasonable range of case and IBNR reserves was called the “supplemental
reserve.” The Company concluded, after examining its historical aggregate
reserves, that the practice of setting aggregate reserves at the upper end of
the range of reasonable reserves provided an unnecessarily high level of
comfort. Even without the high level of comfort provided by the “supplemental
reserve,” the Company’s reserves had historically been conservative. The
Company believes that this change in the estimate of its reserves placed the
Company more in line with the practices of other companies in the industry.

The Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Development table on page 15
is constructed from Schedule P, Part-1, from the Consolidated Annual
Statements, as filed with the state insurance departments. This development
table differs from the development displayed in Schedule P, Part-2 due to the
fact Schedule P, Part-2 excludes unallocated loss adjustment expenses and
reflects the change in the method of accounting for salvage and subrogation for
1994 and prior years.


(d)  Financial Information about geographic areas.

The Company operates throughout the United States. The Company ceased writing
new business in Canada in 1999.

(e)  Available information.

The Company’s Web site is progressive.com. As soon as reasonably practicable,
the Company makes all documents filed or furnished with the SEC, including its
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports
on Form 8-K, available free of charge via its Web site at
progressive.com/investors.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The Company’s corporate headquarters office complex is located on a 42-acre
parcel in Mayfield Village, Ohio. The Company also owns a 72-acre corporate
office complex near the headquarters. In total, buildings on these two sites
contain approximately 1.4 million square feet and are owned by a subsidiary of
the Company.

The Company also owns seven other buildings in suburbs adjoining the corporate
office complexes, six buildings in Tampa, Florida, and a building in each of
the following cities: Tempe, Arizona; Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; Albany, New
York; Tigard, Oregon; Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania; and Austin, Texas. Four
of these buildings are partially leased to non-affiliates. In total, these
buildings contain approximately 1.6 million square feet of office, warehouse
and training facility space and are owned by subsidiaries of the Company.
These facilities are occupied by the Company’s business units or other
operations and are not segregated by industry segment.

The Company leases approximately .9 million square feet of office and warehouse
space at various locations throughout the United States for its other business
units and staff functions. In addition, the Company leases approximately 400
claims offices, consisting of approximately 2.2 million square feet, at various
locations throughout the United States. These leases are generally short-term
to medium-term leases of standard commercial office space.

As the Company continues to grow, it expects that it will need additional space
and is actively engaged in seeking out additional locations to meet its current
and anticipated needs. The Company is currently planning to construct a 322
thousand square foot call center complex in Colorado Springs, Colorado that is
scheduled to be completed in 2004.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Incorporated by reference from Note 11, Litigation, beginning on page App.-B-18
of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2002.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference from information with respect to executive officers
of The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries set forth in Item 10 in
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a)  Market Information and Dividends

The Company’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol PGR. The high and low prices set forth below are as
reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system.

The closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on February 28, 2003 was
$52.01.

On March 19, 2002, the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation
approved a 3-for-1 split of the Company’s Common Shares which was effected in
the form of a stock dividend. In connection with the transaction, two
additional Common Shares were issued on April 22, 2002, for each Common Share
held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 1, 2002.
The purpose of the stock split was to increase the supply of the Company’s
Common Shares and to improve the liquidity of the stock. All of the
information presented above has been adjusted for the stock split.

(b)  Holders

There were 3,586 shareholders of record on February 28, 2003.

(c)  Subsidiary Dividends

Statutory policyholders’ surplus was $3.37 billion and $2.65 billion at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. At December 31, 2002, $405.5 million
of consolidated statutory policyholders’ surplus represents net admitted assets
of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates that are required to
meet minimum statutory surplus requirements in such entities’ states of
domicile. The companies may be licensed in states other than their states of
domicile, which may have higher minimum statutory surplus requirements.
Generally, the net admitted assets of insurance companies that, subject to
other applicable insurance laws and regulations, are available for transfer to
the parent company cannot include the net admitted assets required to meet the
minimum statutory surplus requirements of the states where the companies are
licensed. Based on the dividend laws currently in effect, the insurance
subsidiaries may pay aggregate dividends of $455.5 million in
2003 without
prior approval from regulatory authorities.


(d)  Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation
plans.

Incorporated by reference from the subsection of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans,” on page
9.

(e)  Repurchases

In April 1996, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
6,000,000 Common Shares. Prior to the Company’s 3-for-1 stock split, effective
April 22, 2002, the Company repurchased 1,834,226 Common Shares under this
authorization, leaving the Company with the authority to repurchase an
additional 4,165,774 Common Shares. This unutilized portion of the stock
repurchase authorization was adjusted for the stock split, thereby providing
the Company with the authority to repurchase a total of 12,497,322 Common
Shares pursuant to the existing authorization as of the date of the stock
split. The Company may purchase its shares from time to time, in the open
market or otherwise, when opportunities exist to buy at attractive prices or
for purposes which are otherwise in the best interest of the Company. There
have been 5,306,142 shares repurchased, with the authority to repurchase an
additional 9,025,406 Common Shares, under this authorization as of December
31, 2002.

During 2002, the Company repurchased 3,608,098 of its Common Shares at a total
cost of $214.3 million. Prior to the Company’s stock split, 136,182 Common
Shares were repurchased (at an average cost of $156.03) and 3,471,916 Common
Shares were repurchased after the split (at an average cost of $55.61); the
Company did not split its treasury shares. The 2002 repurchases included
19,294 Common Shares (average cost of $47.10) repurchased from employees to
satisfy their obligations under the Company’s benefit plans; the remaining
repurchases were either open market repurchases negotiated through a broker
(i.e. Morgan Stanley) or privately negotiated purchases.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(millions — except per share amounts)

For the years ended December 31,






Total revenues

$

9,294.4

$

7,488.2

$

6,771.0

$

6,124.2

$

5,292.4

Net income

667.3

411.4

46.1

295.2

456.7

Per share:


Net income


2.99

1.83

.21

1.32

2.04

Dividends

.096

.093

.090

.087

.083

Total assets

13,564.4

11,122.4

10,051.6

9,704.7

8,463.1

Debt outstanding

1,489.0

1,095.7

748.8

1,048.6

776.6


All per share amounts were adjusted for the April 22, 2002 3-for-1 stock
split.


Presented
on a diluted basis.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Incorporated by reference from Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages App.-B-21 through
App.-B-33 of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included as
Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated
by reference from the “Investments” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as described in Item
7 above. Additional information is incorporated by reference from the
“Quantitative Market Risk Disclosures” section on pages App.-B-38 and App.-B-39
of the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, along with the related
notes, supplementary data and report of independent accountants, are
incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to all of the directors, and the individuals who have been
nominated for election as directors at the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
of the Registrant, is incorporated herein by reference from the section
entitled “Election of Directors” in the Proxy Statement, pages 1 through 4.

Information relating to executive officers of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries follows. Unless otherwise indicated, the executive officer has
held the position(s) indicated for at least the last five years.


Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.

In a Form 5 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 3,
2003, Milton N. Allen, a Director of the Company, reported that during 2000 and
2001, a trust controlled by his wife acquired a total of 154.2582 of the
Company’s Common Shares (after giving effect to the Company’s 3-for-1 stock
split in April 2002) in eight (8) transactions pursuant to a brokerage firm’s
automatic dividend reinvestment plan. The shares so acquired during 2000
should have been reported on a Form 5 filed on or before February 14, 2001, and
the shares so acquired during 2001 should have been reported on a Form 5 filed
on or before February 14, 2002.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Executive Compensation,” pages 10 through 18.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” pages 6
through 9.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Election of Directors — Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions,” page 4.


ITEM 14.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company, under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, has established disclosure controls and procedures that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. The
disclosure controls and procedures are also intended to ensure that such
information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

Within 90 days of the filing of this Report, the Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures. Based on, and as of the date of, that
review and evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures
are effectively serving the stated purposes.

In addition, there have been no significant changes in the Company’s internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls
subsequent to the date of their most recent evaluation. No significant
deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal controls were identified
during the evaluation and, as a consequence, no corrective action is required
to be taken.


PART IV

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)(1)

Listing of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
included in the Registrant’s 2002 Annual Report are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

(a)(2)

Listing of Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial statement schedules of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, Report of
Independent Accountants and Consent of Independent Accountants are included in Item 14(d):


(a)(3)

Listing of Exhibits

See exhibit index contained herein at pages 41 to 46. Management
contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements are identified in the Exhibit
Index as Exhibit Nos. (10)(D) through (10)(AH).

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

(c)

Exhibits

The exhibits in response to this portion of Item 14 are submitted
concurrently with this report.


(d)

Financial Statement Schedules

SCHEDULE I — SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS — OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

The Company did not have any securities of one issuer with an aggregate cost or
market value exceeding 10% of total shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying condensed financial statements of The Progressive Corporation
(the “Registrant”) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto of The Progressive Corporation and
subsidiaries included in the Registrant’s 2002 Annual Report.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS — For the purpose of the Statements of Cash Flows,
cash includes only bank demand deposits. The Registrant paid income taxes of
$392.0 million in 2002, and $127.3 million and $13.8 million in 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Total interest paid was $64.2 million for 2002 and $51.3 million
for 2001 and $81.6 million in 2000.

The Registrant effected a 3-for-1 stock split in the form of a dividend to
shareholders on April 22, 2002. The Registrant issued its Common Shares by
transferring $147.0 million from retained earnings to the Common
Share account.
All per share and share amounts and stock prices were adjusted to give effect
to the split. Treasury shares were not split.

DEBT — Debt at December 31 consisted of:



Market

Market

(millions)

Cost

Value

Cost

Value

6.25%Senior Notes due 2032 (issued: $400.0, November 2002)

$

393.5

$

432.2

$

—

$

—

6.375% Senior Notes due 2012 (issued: $350.0, December
2001)

347.2

370.4

347.0

348.4

6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2029 (issued: $300.0, March 1999)

294.0

295.8

293.9

271.1

7.30% Notes due 2006 (issued: $100.0, May 1996)

99.8

110.9

99.8

106.1

6.60% Notes due 2004 (issued: $200.0, January 1994)

199.8

208.1

199.6

209.5

7% Notes due 2013 (issued: $150.0, October 1993)

148.7

165.5

148.6

150.6

$

1,483.0

$

1,582.9

$

1,088.9

$

1,085.7

Debt includes amounts the Registrant has borrowed and contributed to the
capital of its insurance subsidiaries or borrowed for other long-term purposes.
Market values are obtained from publicly quoted sources. Interest on all debt
is payable semiannually. There are no restrictive financial covenants.

The 6.25% Senior Notes, the 6.375% Senior Notes and the 6 5/8% Senior Notes
(collectively, “Senior Notes”) may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time
at the option of the Company, subject to a “make whole” provision. All other
debt is noncallable.

In May 1990, the Registrant entered into a revolving credit arrangement with
National City Bank, which is reviewed by the bank annually. Under this
agreement, the Registrant has the right to borrow up to $10.0 million. By
selecting from available credit options, the Registrant may elect to pay
interest at rates related to the London interbank offered rate, the bank’s base
rate or at a money market rate. A commitment fee is payable on any unused
portion of the committed amount at the rate of .125% per annum. The Registrant
had no borrowings under this arrangement at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

Aggregate principal payments on debt outstanding at December 31, 2002 are $0
for 2003, $200.0 million for 2004, $0 for 2005, $100.0 million for 2006, $0 in
2007 and $1.2 billion thereafter.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INCOME TAXES — The Registrant files a consolidated Federal income tax return
with all subsidiaries. The Federal income taxes in the accompanying Condensed
Balance Sheets represent amounts payable to the Internal Revenue Service by the
Registrant as agent for the consolidated tax group. The Registrant and its
subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of
allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the
subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Intercompany
Receivable or Payable from Subsidiaries in the accompanying Condensed Balance
Sheets.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES — The Registrant, through its
investment in consolidated subsidiaries, recognizes the changes in unrealized
gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities of the subsidiaries. These
amounts were:

(millions)




Changes in unrealized gains (losses):

Available-for-sale: fixed maturities

$

227.1

$

33.7

$

160.4

equity securities

(164.0

)

46.1

(48.0

)

Deferred income taxes

(22.2

)

(27.8

)

(39.5

)

$

40.9

$

52.0

$

72.9

OTHER MATTERS — The information relating to incentive compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from Note 8, Employee Benefit Plans, “Incentive
Compensation Plans” on pages App.-B-15 and App.-B-16 of the Registrant’s
2002 Annual Report.


SCHEDULE III — SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

(1)

The Company does not allocate assets, liabilities or investment income to
operating segments.

(2)

Excluding investment expenses of $11.5 million in 2002, $12.7 million in
2001 and $9.1 million in 2000.


SCHEDULE IV — REINSURANCE

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Assumed

Percentage

Ceded to

From

of Amount

Other

Other

Assumed

Year Ended:

Gross Amount

Companies

Companies

Net Amount

to Net

December 31, 2002

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

9,078.1

$

194.7

$

.1

$

8,883.5

—

December 31, 2001

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

7,299.0

$

137.3

$

.1

$

7,161.8

—

December 31, 2000

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

6,547.0

$

198.6

$

—

$

6,348.4

—


SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY — CASUALTY INSURANCE

OPERATIONS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Losses and Loss Adjustment

Paid Losses and

Expenses Incurred Related to

Loss Adjustment Expenses

Year Ended

Current Year

Prior Years

December 31, 2002

$

6,295.6

$

3.5

$

5,736.7

December 31, 2001

$

5,363.1

$

(99.0

)

$

4,979.7

December 31, 2000

$

5,203.6

$

75.8

$

4,694.3

Pursuant to Rule 12-18 of Regulation S-X. See Schedule III, page 32, for the
additional information required in Schedule VI.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 22, 2003, in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included
as an Appendix to The Progressive Corporation’s 2003 Proxy Statement (which
report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial
statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,
these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

January 22, 2003


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on:

Form

Filing No.

Filing Date

S-3

333-100674

October 22, 2002

S-3

333-73752

November 20, 2001

S-8

333-41238

July 12, 2000

S-8

333-51613

May 1, 1998

S-8

333-25197

April 15, 1997

S-8

33-57121

December 29, 1994

S-8

33-64210

June 10, 1993

S-8

33-51034

August 20, 1992

S-8

33-46944

April 3, 1992

S-8

33-38793

February 4, 1991

S-8

33-37707

November 9, 1990

S-8

33-33240

January 31, 1990

S-8

33-16509

August 14, 1987

of The Progressive Corporation of our report dated January 22, 2003 relating to
the financial statements, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is included as an Appendix to The Progressive Corporation’s 2003 Proxy
Statement, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also
consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 22, 2003
relating to the financial statement schedules, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

March 14, 2003


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

March 14, 2003

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Glenn M. Renwick

Director, President and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


*

Charles E. Jarrett, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document
on behalf of the persons indicated above pursuant to a power of attorney
duly executed by such persons.

By

/s/ Charles E. Jarrett

March 14, 2003

Charles E. Jarrett

Attorney-in-fact


CERTIFICATION

I, Glenn M. Renwick, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Progressive
Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and
have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
is being prepared;

b)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a)

All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and
have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses
in internal controls; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date: March 14, 2003

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Glenn M. Renwick

President and Chief Executive Officer


CERTIFICATION

I, W. Thomas Forrester, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Progressive
Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and
have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
is being prepared;

b)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure
controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the
filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a)

All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and
have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses
in internal controls; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s
internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.

Date: March 14, 2003

/s/ W. Thomas Forrester

W. Thomas Forrester

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(3)(i)

3(A)

Amended Articles of
Incorporation, as amended, of The
Progressive Corporation
(“Progressive”)

Registration Statement No.
333-51613 (Filed with SEC
on May 1, 1998; see
Exhibit 4(C) therein)

(3)(ii)

3(B)

Code of Regulations of Progressive

Registration Statement No.
333-41238 (Filed with SEC
on July 12, 2000; see
Exhibit 4(d) therein)

(4)

4(A)

$10,000,000 Unsecured Line of
Credit with National City Bank
(dated May 23, 1990; renewed May
20, 1992; amended
February 1, 1994 and May 1, 1997)

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(4)

4(B)

Indenture dated as of September
15, 1993 between Progressive and
State Street Bank and Trust
Company (successor in interest to
The First National Bank of
Boston), as Trustee (“1993 Senior
Indenture”) (including table of
contents and cross-reference
sheet)

Registration Statement No.
333-48935 (Filed with SEC
on March 31, 1998; see
Exhibit 4.1 therein)

(4)

4(C)

Form of 7% Notes due 2013 issued
in the aggregate principal amount
of $150,000,000 under the 1993
Senior Indenture

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Filed with SEC on March
27, 1999; see Exhibit 4(H)
therein)

(4)

4(D)

Form of 6.60% Notes due 2004
issued in the aggregate principal
amount of $200,000,000 under the
1993 Senior Indenture

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
30, 2000; see Exhibit 4(H)
therein)

(4)

4(E)

First Supplemental Indenture
dated March 15, 1996 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, evidencing the
designation of State Street Bank
and Trust Company as successor
Trustee under the 1993 Senior
Indenture

Registration Statement No.
333-01745 (Filed with SEC
on March 15, 1996; see
Exhibit 4.2 therein)

(4)

4(F)

Form of 7.30% Notes due 2006,
issued in the aggregate principal
amount of $100,000,000 under the
1993 Senior Indenture, as amended
and supplemented

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit 4(J)
therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(4)

4(G)

Second Supplemental Indenture
dated February 26, 1999 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee,
supplementing and amending the
1993 Senior Indenture

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
February 26, 1999; see
Exhibit 4.4 therein)

(4)

4(H)

Form of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due
2029, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $300,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
February 26, 1999; see
Exhibit 4.5 therein)

(4)

4(I)

Third Supplemental Indenture
dated December 7, 2001 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
December 10, 2001; see
Exhibit 4.5 therein)

(4)

4(J)

Form of 6.375% Senior Notes due
2012, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $350,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
December 10, 2001; see
Exhibit 4.6 therein)

(4)

4(K)

Fourth Supplemental Indenture
dated November 21, 2002 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
November 21, 2002; see
Exhibit 4.6 therein)

(4)

4(L)

Form of 6.25% Senior Notes due
2032, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $400,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Current Report on Form 8-K
(Filed with SEC on
November 21, 2002; see
Exhibit 4.7 therein)

(10)(ii)

10(A)

Aircraft Management Agreement
dated April 23, 1999, between
Village Transport Corp. and ACME
Operating Corporation

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
30, 2000; see Exhibit
10(E) therein)

(10)(ii)

10(B)

Hangar Sharing Agreement dated as
of June 1, 2002 between
Progressive Casualty Insurance
Company and ACME Operating
Corporation

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(ii)

10(C)

Reimbursement Agreement dated
December 23, 2002 between Village
Transport Corp. and ACME
Operating Corporation

Contained in Exhibit Binder


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(D)

The Progressive Corporation 2001

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(E)

The Progressive Corporation 2002

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
28, 2002; see Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(F)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Gainsharing Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(G)

2003 Progressive Capital

Management Bonus Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(H)

The Progressive Corporation 1999
Executive Bonus Plan
(as amended on January 31, 2003)

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(I)

The Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (amended and
restated as of April 24, 1992, as
further amended on July 1, 1992
and February 5, 1993)

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Filed with SEC on March
27, 1999; see Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(J)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (single award)

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit
10(R) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(K)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1989 Incentive Plan (multiple awards)

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit 10(S) therein)

(10)(iii)

(10)(iii)

10(L)

The Progressive Corporation 1995
Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
30, 2000; see Exhibit
10(P) therein)

(10)(iii)

(10)(iii)

10(M)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1995
Incentive Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(N)

Form of Objective-Based (now
known as Performance-Based)
Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1995 Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit
10(T) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(O)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Incentive Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(P)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan (Amended and Restated as of
January 1, 1997), as further
amended December 1, 1997

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(Q)

Third Amendment to The
Progressive Corporation Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan dated
December 1,1998

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Filed with SEC on March
27, 1999; see Exhibit
10(O) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(R)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Trust (December 1, 1998 Amendment
and Restatement)

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Filed with SEC on March
27, 1999; see Exhibit
10(P) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(S)

The Progressive Corporation
Directors Deferral Plan
(Amendment and Restatement), as
further amended on October 25,

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit
10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(T)

The Progressive Corporation 1990
Directors’ Stock Option Plan
(Amended and Restated as of April
24, 1992 and as further amended
on July 1, 1992)

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(U)

The Progressive Corporation 1998
Directors’ Stock Option Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(V)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Directors Equity Incentive Plan

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(10)(iii)

10(W)

The Progressive Corporation

Executive Separation Allowance

Plan

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(X)

Separation Agreement and General
Release dated February 23, 2001
between Progressive Casualty
Insurance Company and Charles B.
Chokel

Annual Report on Form 10-K
(filed with SEC on March
29, 2001; see Exhibit
10(M) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(Y)

Agreement dated May 16, 2001
between The Progressive
Corporation and Glenn Renwick

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
August 13, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(A) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(Z)

Agreement dated May 18, 2001
between The Progressive
Corporation and Stephen Peterson

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
August 13, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AA)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and W. Thomas
Forrester

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AB)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Brian J. Passell

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AC)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Charles E.
Jarrett

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AD)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Glenn M. Renwick

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(D) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AE)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Richard H. Watts

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(E) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AF)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Raymond M.
Voelker

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AG)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Robert T.
Williams

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AH)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Alan R. Bauer

Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q (Filed with SEC on
November 5, 2001; see
Exhibit 10(H) therein)

(11)


Computation of Earnings Per Share

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(12)


Computation of Ratio of Earnings
to Fixed Charges

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(13)


The Progressive Corporation 2002
Annual Report to Shareholders

Contained in Exhibit Binder


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

If Incorporated by

Under

10-K

Reference, Documents with

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

Which Exhibit was

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Previously Filed with SEC

(21)


Subsidiaries of The Progressive
Corporation

Contained in Exhibit Binder

(23)


Consent of Independent Accountants

Incorporated herein by
reference to page 36 of
this Annual Report on Form
10-K

(24)


Powers of Attorney

Contained in Exhibit Binder

No other exhibits are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 601 of

Regulation S-K.

46