10-K


l05942ae10vk.htm

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION   10-K/FYE 12-31-03

The Progressive Corporation   10-K/FYE 12-31-03

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[

ü

]

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

or

[   ]

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number

1-9518

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

34-0963169

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(440) 461-5000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange on

Title of each class

which registered

Common Shares, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.                  [

ü

] Yes [   ] No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this
Form 10-K.                  
[

ü

]

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).         [

ü

] Yes [   ] No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at June 30, 2003: $14,489,967,235

The number of the Registrant’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, outstanding as
of January 31, 2004: 216,944,715

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 16, 2004, to be filed on or about March 8,
2004, and the Annual Report to Shareholders, included as Exhibit 13 to this
Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II, III and IV hereof.


INTRODUCTION

Portions of the information included in The Progressive Corporation’s Proxy
Statement to be filed on or about March 8, 2004, for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 16, 2004 (the “Proxy Statement”) have been
incorporated by reference herein and are identified under the appropriate items
in this Form 10-K. The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries’
(collectively, the “Company”) 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual
Report”), which will be attached as an Appendix to the 2004 Proxy Statement, is
included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. Cross references to relevant
sections of the Annual Report are included under the appropriate items of this
Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of Business

The Progressive insurance organization began business in 1937. The Progressive
Corporation, an insurance holding company formed in 1965, has 68
subsidiaries, 1 mutual insurance company affiliate and 1 reciprocal insurance company
affiliate. The Progressive Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates
provide personal automobile insurance and other specialty property-casualty
insurance and related services throughout the United States. The Company’s
property-casualty insurance products protect its customers against collision
and physical damage to their motor vehicles, uninsured and underinsured bodily
injury, and liability to others for personal injury or property damage arising
out of the use of those vehicles. The Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries
generally support the Company’s insurance and investment operations.

(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

Incorporated by reference from Note 9, Segment Information, beginning on page
App.-B-19 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form
10-K.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

The Company offers a number of personal and commercial property-casualty
insurance products primarily related to motor vehicles. Net premiums written
were $11.9 billion in 2003, compared to $9.5 billion in 2002 and $7.3 billion
in 2001. The underwriting profit was 12.7% in 2003, 7.6% in 2002 and 4.8% in
2001.

Personal Lines

The Company’s Personal Lines segment writes insurance for private passenger
automobiles and recreation and other vehicles. This business frequently offers
more than one program in a single state, with each targeted to a specific
market or customer group. Personal Lines accounted for 88% of total net
premiums written in 2003 and 2002 and 89% in 2001. The Company’s strategy is
to become the low-cost provider of a full line of auto insurance products and
related services, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers.

Of the approximately 300 United States insurance companies/groups with annual
private passenger auto insurance premiums over $5 million annually, the Company
ranked third in size for 2002 based on net premiums written, and believes that
it held this position for 2003. For 2003, the estimated industry net premiums
written, for personal auto insurance in the United States and Canada, were
$149.5 billion, and the Company’s share of this market was approximately 7.0%,
compared to $139.6 billion and 6.0%, respectively, in 2002, and $127.9 billion
and 5.1% in 2001. Except as otherwise noted, all industry data and the
Company’s market share or ranking in the industry either were derived directly
from data reported by A.M. Best Company Inc. (“A.M. Best”) or were estimated
using A.M. Best data as the primary source.


Private passenger automobile insurance is comprised of preferred, standard and
nonstandard automobile risks and represents 93% of total Personal Lines net
premiums written by the Company. The Company actively participates in the
market for each of these risks, with the objective of offering an
accurate rate for every risk. Volume potential is driven by the Company’s ability to
price competitively, brand recognition and the actions of the Company’s
competitors, among other factors. See “Competitive Factors” on page 10 of this
report for further discussion.

The Company’s specialty Personal Lines products include insurance for
motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles and
similar items. These specialty products represent 7% of the Company’s total
Personal Lines net premiums written and are primarily distributed by
independent agents. Due to the nature of the products, the Company typically
experiences higher losses during the warmer weather months. The Company’s
competitors are specialty companies and large multi-line insurance carriers.
Although industry figures are not available, based on the Company’s analysis of
this market, the Company believes that it is one of the largest participants in
the specialty personal lines market. The Company has been the market share
leader for personal watercraft insurance since 2002, and has been the market
share leader for the motorcycle product since 1998.

The Personal Lines business is generated either by an agent or broker, or
written directly by the Company. The Agency channel includes business written
by the Company’s network of more than 30,000 independent insurance agencies
located throughout the United States, insurance brokers in several states and
through strategic alliance business relationships. The independent insurance
agents have the authority to bind the Company to specified insurance coverages
within prescribed underwriting guidelines, subject to compliance with certain
Company-mandated procedures. These guidelines prescribe the kinds and amounts
of coverage that may be written and the premium rates that may be charged for
specified categories of risk. The agencies and brokers do not have authority
on behalf of the Company to settle or adjust claims, establish underwriting
guidelines, develop rates or enter into other transactions or commitments. The
Agency channel also writes business through alliances with other insurance
companies, financial institutions, employers and national brokerage agencies.
In 2003, the total net premiums written through the Agency channel represented
69% of the Personal Lines volume, compared to 70% in 2002 and 71% in 2001.

Direct business includes business written through 1-800-PROGRESSIVE, online at
progressive.com and on behalf of affinity groups. Net premiums written in the
Direct business were 31%, 30% and 29% of the Personal Lines volume in 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Company currently operates 19 vehicle claim service centers, including 12
new sites which were added during 2003. These sites, which are designed to
provide end-to-end resolution for auto physical damage losses, are expected to
improve efficiency, increase accuracy, reduce rework, improve repair cycle time
and provide greater brand distinction. The Company continues to evaluate the
operating performance and cost parameters of these sites to validate their
effectiveness.

Auto insurance differs greatly by community because regulations and legal
decisions vary by state and because traffic, law enforcement, cultural
attitudes, insurance agents, medical services and auto repair services vary by
community. The Company’s organization enables it to meet varied local
conditions under a cohesive set of policies and procedures designed to provide
consistency and control. The Company’s business is organized into business
areas: Agency, Direct, Claims, and Sales and Service. The Agency, Direct and
Claims business areas are managed at a local level and divided into six
regions. Each business has a Group President and a process team, with local
managers at the state level. Sales and Service (which includes customer
service calls, direct sales calls and claims loss reporting, among other
services) is performed at six regional sites in Austin, Texas; Cleveland, Ohio;
Colorado Springs, Colorado; Sacramento, California; Tampa, Florida; and
Phoenix, Arizona.

The Company’s executive management team sets policy and makes key strategic
decisions, and includes the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Legal Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Information Officer and
Chief Human Resource Officer, as well as the Company’s four Group Presidents
(Agency, Direct, Claims, and Sales and Service). The Group Presidents are
challenged to develop and manage product offerings and customer service
processes tailored to the unique requirements of customers who select
Progressive as their auto insurance carrier and buy policies through the
distribution mode of their choice.


Commercial Auto

The Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability, physical damage and
other auto-related insurance for automobiles and trucks owned by small
businesses and represented 11% of the Company’s total net premiums written in
both 2003 and 2002, compared to 9% in 2001. Although the Commercial Auto
business differs from Personal Lines auto, both businesses require the same
fundamental skills, including disciplined underwriting and pricing, as well as
excellent claims service. The Company’s Commercial Auto business is primarily
distributed through the independent agency channel. The Company competes for
this business on a nationwide basis with approximately 200 other
companies/groups (with net premiums written in excess of $5 million annually).
The Company’s Commercial Auto Business ranked fourth in market share on a
national basis in 2002, based on data reported by A.M. Best, and estimates that
it moved into the third position for 2003.

Other Businesses

The Company’s other lines of business include the Professional Liability Group
(PLG) and the Motor Carrier business unit. During 2003, the Company disbanded
its Lender’s Collateral Protection Group (LCPG), since it ceased writing this
business. These groups are organized by customer group, headquartered in
Cleveland, Ohio and accounted for approximately 1% of total revenue in 2003.
The choice of distribution channel is driven by each customer group’s buying
preference and service needs. Distribution channels include independent
agents, financial institutions, vehicle dealers and Company-employed sales
forces. Distribution arrangements are individually negotiated between such
intermediaries and the Company and are tailored to the specific needs of the
customer group and the nature of the related financial or purchase
transactions.

PLG’s principal products are liability insurance for directors and officers and
financial institution bonds, the main product of which is employee dishonesty
insurance. Its principal customers are community banks. Progressive shares
the risk and premium on these coverages with a small mutual reinsurer
controlled by its bank customers and various other reinsurance entities. The
program is sponsored by the American Bankers Association. The risk on these
coverages is also reinsured by various entities. PLG represented
less than one-fifth of one percent of the Company’s total 2003 net premiums
written.

The Motor Carrier business unit primarily processes business for Commercial
Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), which are state supervised plans serving the
involuntary markets. The Motor Carrier business unit processes CAIP business
in 25 states. As a CAIP servicing carrier, this business unit processes over
49% of the premiums in the CAIP market, which is growing in size. The business
is written directly by the Company, but reinsured 100% through the CAIP plan;
the Company monitors the CAIP plan for solvency. To the extent the Company
fails to comply with contractual service standards, the Company would be
restricted from ceding business to the CAIP plan. The Company competes with
two other providers nationwide.

The Company ceased writing LCPG products during 2003. LCPG primarily provided
physical damage insurance and related tracking services to protect the
commercial or retail lender’s interest in collateral which was not otherwise
insured against these risks. The principal product offered was collateral
protection insurance for automobile lenders, which was sold to financial
institutions and/or their customers. Commercial banks and finance companies
were LCPG’s largest customer group for these services. This business also
served savings and loan institutions and credit unions. During 2002, the
Company lost some key accounts for these products and this business was unable
to meet its profitability target. Management believes that exiting this line
of business does not materially affect the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. LCPG represented less than one-fourth of
one percent of the Company’s total 2003 net premiums written.


Risk Factors

The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of
which are discussed in this section. This information should be considered
carefully together with the other information contained in this report and in
the other reports and materials filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), as well as news releases and other information
publicly disseminated by the Company from time to time.

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the
Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company
or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the
Company’s business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develop
into actual events, this could have a materially adverse effect on the
Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In that
case, the trading price of the Company’s Common Shares could decline
materially.

The Company competes in the automobile insurance and other property-casualty
markets, which are highly competitive.

The Company faces vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national
companies and smaller regional insurers. Other large national and
international insurance or financial services companies may also enter these
markets in the future. Many of these companies may have greater financial,
marketing and management resources than the Company. In addition, competitors
may offer consumers combinations of auto policies and other insurance products
or financial services which the Company does not offer. The Company could be
adversely affected by a loss of business to competitors offering similar
insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled products or services and
by other competitor initiatives.

The Company from time to time undertakes strategic initiatives to maintain and
improve its competitive position in auto insurance markets. Based on a culture
that encourages innovation, these strategies at times involve significant
departures from the Company’s and/or its competitors’ then-current or
historical modes of doing business. As such, the Company’s innovations may
entail a degree of risk and may not ultimately achieve anticipated business
goals. In addition, these initiatives may be subject to challenge by
regulators or private litigants and may disrupt the Company’s relationships
with certain of its customers and business partners. If the Company is unable
successfully to develop, plan and implement its strategic initiatives in these
competitive, regulatory and legal environments, its business could be
materially adversely affected.

Similarly, the Company undertakes distinctive advertising campaigns and other
efforts to improve brand recognition and drive growth. If these campaigns or
efforts are unsuccessful or are less effective than those of competitors, the
Company’s business could be materially adversely affected.

The highly competitive nature of the markets in which the Company competes
could also result in the failure of one or more major competitors. In the
event of a failure of a major competitor, the Company could be adversely
affected, as the Company and other insurance companies would be required under
state-mandated plans to absorb the losses of the failed insurer, and as the
Company would be faced with an unexpected surge in new business from the failed
insurer’s former policyholders.

The ability of the Company to attract, develop and retain talented employees,
managers and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is
critical to the Company’s success.

In a time of growth, the Company must hire and train new employees, and retain
current employees, as necessary to handle the resulting increase in new
inquiries, applications, policies, customers and claims. The failure of the
Company to meet targeted employment goals could result in the Company having to
slow growth in the business units or markets that are affected. In addition,
the failure to staff appropriately in the Company’s claims organization could
result in decreased quality of claims work, which could also lower the
Company’s operating margins.

If growth slows or reverses, the Company would be required to forecast the
changing business environments (for multiple business units and in various
geographic markets across the country) with reasonable accuracy and adjust its
hiring programs and/or employment levels accordingly. In some circumstances, a
reduction in force in one or more businesses or markets could be required. If
the Company failed to recognize such changing operating environments, or


was unable to reduce employment levels at the appropriate time, over-staffing
could result, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
results.

The Company’s success also depends on its ability to attract, develop and

retain talented executives and other key managers. The Company’s loss of
certain key officers and employees or the failure to attract and develop
talented new executives and managers could have a materially adverse effect on
the Company’s business.

The Company further believes that its success depends, in large part, on its
ability to maintain and improve its staffing models and employee culture that
have been developed over the years. The Company’s ability to do so may be
impaired as a result of litigation against the Company, legislation or
regulations at the state or federal level or other factors in the employment
marketplace. In such events, the productivity of certain of the Company’s
workers could be adversely affected, which could lead to an erosion of the
Company’s operating performance and margins.

The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex
federal and state laws and regulations.

The Company’s insurance businesses operate in a highly regulated environment.
The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision
by state insurance departments in all 50 states and the District of Columbia,
each of which has a unique and complex set of laws and regulations. In
addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on insurers. The
subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these laws and regulations, and to obtain
necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will continue to be
critical to the Company’s success.

Certain states impose restrictions on or require prior regulatory approval of
various actions by regulated insurers, which may adversely affect the insurance
subsidiaries’ ability to operate, innovate and obtain necessary rate
adjustments in a timely manner. The Company’s compliance efforts are further
complicated by changes in laws or regulations applicable to insurance companies
(such as, in recent years, legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning
the use of nonpublic consumer information and related privacy issues, the use
of credit scoring in underwriting and efforts to freeze, set or roll back
insurance premium rates). As such, insurance laws and regulations may limit
the insurance subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately,
prevent the subsidiaries from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to
cover increased costs, and restrict the subsidiaries’ ability to discontinue
unprofitable business or exit unprofitable markets. In addition, compliance
with insurance-related laws and regulations often will result in increased
administrative costs to the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. These results,
in turn, may adversely affect the Company’s profitability or its ability or
desire to grow its business in the applicable jurisdictions.

The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could also result in
actions by regulators, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of
a subsidiary’s ability to do business in one or more jurisdictions. In
addition, the Company and its subsidiaries can face individual and class action
lawsuits by its insureds and other parties for alleged violations of certain of
these laws or regulations.

Moreover, new legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future which
could adversely affect the Company’s operations or its ability to write
business profitably in one or more states. In addition, from time to time, the
United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current
condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is
necessary. The Company is unable to predict whether any such laws will be
enacted and how and to what extent such laws and regulations would affect the
Company’s businesses.

State insurance regulation may create risk and uncertainties for the Company’s
insurance subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these
risks and uncertainties, see the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on
page 11 of this report.

Lawsuits challenging business practices of the Company, its competitors and
other companies are pending and more may be filed in the future.

The Progressive Corporation and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in
a number of putative class action and other lawsuits challenging various
aspects of the subsidiaries’ business operations. These lawsuits include cases
alleging damages as a result of the use of after-market parts, total loss
evaluation methodology, the use of alternative commissions, the use of credit
in underwriting, the alleged “diminution in value” of vehicles which are
involved in accidents, the methods used for evaluating and paying certain
bodily injury, personal injury protection and medical


payment claims, policy implementation and renewal procedures, the
classification of employees under federal and state wage and hour laws, among
other matters. Other litigation may be filed against the Company and/or its
subsidiaries in the future concerning these or other business practices. In
addition, lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed in the
future, against the Company’s competitors and other businesses, and the results
of those cases may create additional risks for, and/or impose additional costs
and/or limitations on, the subsidiaries’ business operations.

Litigation is unpredictable, and the outcome of these cases is uncertain.
Lawsuits against the Company routinely seek significant monetary damages from
the Company. Moreover, as courts resolve individual or class action litigation
in the insurance arena, a new layer of court-imposed regulation could result in
material increases in the Company’s costs of doing business. Except to the
extent the Company has established loss reserves with respect to particular
cases that are currently pending, the Company is unable to predict the effect,
if any, that these pending or future cases may have on the business,
operations, profitability or financial condition of the Company. For further
information on pending litigation, see Note 11, Litigation, beginning on page
App.-B-21 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form
10-K.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to underwrite risks accurately and
to charge adequate rates to policyholders.

The Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend
on the Company’s ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full
spectrum of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium
to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to
earn a profit.

In order to price accurately, the Company must collect and properly analyze a
substantial volume of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating
formulae; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trend; and project
both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. The Company’s
ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price
accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including,
without limitation:

Such risks may result in the Company’s pricing being based on stale, inadequate
or inaccurate data or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and
may cause the Company to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency
or severity of claims. As a result, the Company could underprice risks, which
would negatively affect the Company’s margins, or it could overprice risks,
which could reduce the Company’s volume and competitiveness. In either event,
the Company’s operating results, financial condition and cash flow could be
materially adversely affected.

The Company’s financial performance may also be materially adversely affected
by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic losses.

The Company continues to be exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions
and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as
hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter
weather and fires, and other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks,
riots, hazardous material releases, utility outages or interruptions of
communications facilities. The extent of insured losses from a catastrophe is
a function of both the Company’s total insured exposure in the area affected by
the event and the nature and severity of the event. In addition, the Company’s
business could be further impaired if a significant portion of its business or
systems were shut down by, or if the Company was unable to gain access to
certain of its facilities as a result of, such an event. Most of the Company’s
past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. The
incidence and severity of


catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. When they occur with enough
severity, the Company’s financial performance, cash flows or results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to establish accurate loss
reserves and to adjust claims accurately.

The Company’s financial statements include loss reserves, which represent the
Company’s best estimate of the amounts that the subsidiaries will ultimately
pay on claims, and the related costs of adjusting those claims, as of the date
of the financial statements. There is inherent uncertainty in the process of
establishing property and casualty loss reserves, which arises from a number of
factors, including:

As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, ultimate paid losses
and loss adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from
point-in-time estimates of such losses and expenses, as reflected in the loss
reserves included in the Company’s financial statements. Consequently,
ultimate losses paid could materially exceed loss reserves and have a
materially adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or
financial position. Further information on the Company’s loss reserves can be
found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment
Expenses” discussion beginning on page 14 of this report, as well as the
Company’s Report on Loss Reserving Practices, which was filed with the SEC on
Form 8-K on June 27, 2003.

Likewise, the Company must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made
under its policies. Many factors affect the Company’s ability to pay claims
accurately, including the training and experience of the Company’s claims
representatives, the claims organization’s culture and the effectiveness of its
management, the Company’s ability to develop or select and implement
appropriate procedures and systems to support its claims functions, and other
factors. The Company’s failure to pay claims accurately could result in
unanticipated losses to the Company, lead to material litigation, undermine
customer goodwill and the Company’s reputation in the marketplace and impair
the Company’s brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect the
Company’s financial results and liquidity.

The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of its
facilities, systems and business functions, including its information
technology and other business systems.

The Company’s business is highly dependent upon its employees’ ability to
perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business
functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour call centers, processing new
and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or
inability to access one or more of the Company’s facilities, a power outage, or
a failure of one or more of the Company’s information technology,
telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair the Company’s
ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because the
Company’s information technology and telecommunications systems interface with
and depend on third party systems, the Company could experience service denials
if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or
experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business
interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration
of the Company’s ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide
customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary
corporate functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on the
Company’s business results and liquidity.

To help maintain functionality and reduce the risk of significant interruptions
of its operations, the Company maintains back-up systems or facilities for
certain of its principal systems and services; however, these measures may
prove to be


unsuccessful or inadequate against severe, multiple or prolonged service
interruptions or against interruptions of systems where no back-up currently
exists. In addition, the Company has established emergency management teams
comprised of senior managers from various corporate functions who are
responsible for responding to business disruptions and other risk events. The
emergency management teams’ ability to respond successfully to certain of these
events may be limited, depending on the nature of the event, the completeness
and effectiveness of the Company’s plans to maintain business continuity upon
the occurrence of such an event, and other factors which may be beyond the
Company’s control. The Company maintains insurance on its real property and
other physical assets, which includes coverage for losses due to business
interruptions caused by covered property damage. However, this insurance will
not compensate the Company for losses that may occur due to disruptions in
service as a result of a computer, data processing or telecommunications
systems failure that is unrelated to covered property damage; nor will such
business interruption insurance necessarily compensate the Company for all
losses resulting from covered events.

A security breach of the Company’s computer systems could also interrupt or
damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could
be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated
from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of security measures,
including hiring an independent firm to perform intrusion vulnerability testing
of the Company’s computer systems, these systems may be vulnerable to physical
break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or
similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could
deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting
confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could have a material,
adverse effect on the Company’s business.

The performance of the Company’s fixed-income and equity investment portfolios
are subject to investment risks.

The Company’s fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks,
including:

•

Interest rate risk – the risk of changes in the value of fixed-income
securities as a result of movements in the underlying market rates of
the securities held, which is the most significant risk to the fixed
income portfolio,

•

Credit risk – the risk that the value of instruments held would be
impaired due to the deterioration in financial condition of one or
more issuers of those instruments,

•

Concentration risk – the risk that the portfolio could be too heavily
concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers or sectors,
resulting in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in
the event of a deterioration of those issuers or their securities, and

•

Prepayment risk (applicable to certain securities in the portfolio,
such as residential mortgage-backed securities) – the risk that, as
interests rates change, prepayment expectations of principal of such
securities may change, adversely affecting the value of or income from
such securities and the portfolio.

The common equity portfolio is managed to track the Russell 1000 index, and is
generally subject to the risk of equity market volatility. A substantial
decline in the value of the equities that make up the index would likely result
in a substantial decline in the value of the Company’s equity portfolio.

In addition, both portfolios are subject to risks inherent in the nation’s and
the world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of
the investments held by the Company and the Company’s ability to liquidate
investments on short notice may be adversely affected if those markets are
disrupted by national or international events including, without limitation,
wars, terrorist attacks, recessions or depressions, a significant change in
inflation expectations, a significant devaluation of governmental credit,
currencies or financial markets, and other factors or events.

If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by
market, sector or issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, the
Company’s liquidity, financial position and financial results could be
materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the Company’s income
from these investments could be materially reduced, and write-downs of the
value of certain securities could further reduce the Company’s reported
earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of the Company’s investment
portfolio could also put the Company’s insurance subsidiaries at risk of
failing to satisfy regulatory capital requirements. If the Company was not at
that time able to supplement its subsidiaries’ capital from The Progressive
Corporation’s other assets or by issuing debt or equity securities on
acceptable terms, the Company’s business could be materially adversely
affected.


The Company’s insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends
that they can pay to the Company, which in turn may limit the Company’s ability
to pay dividends to shareholders, repay indebtedness or make capital
contributions to subsidiaries or affiliates.

The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of
its own. Consequently, if the Company's subsidiaries are unable to
pay dividends or make other distributions to The Progressive
Corporation, or are able to pay only limited amounts,
the holding company may be unable to pay dividends to shareholders, make
payments on its indebtedness, meet its other obligations, or make capital
contributions to or otherwise fund its subsidiaries or affiliates. Each
subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be limited by
one or more of the following factors:

•

State insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory
capital and surplus.

•

Competitive pressures require the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength ratings.

•

In certain jurisdictions, prior approval must be obtained from state regulatory authorities for the insurance subsidiaries
to pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated entities, including the Company.

Further information on state insurance laws and regulations which may limit the
ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found
in Item 5(c), “Subsidiary Dividends,” on page 18 of this report.

The Company does not manage analysts’ or investors’ earnings expectations, and
the Company announces its financial results on a monthly basis, which may
result in stock price volatility.

The Company believes that shareholder value will be increased in the long run
if the Company meets or exceeds certain financial goals and policies
established by the Company. The Company does not manage its business to
maximize short-term stock performance. The Company does not provide earnings
estimates to the market and does not comment on earnings estimates by analysts.
As a result, the Company’s reported results for a particular period may vary,
perhaps significantly, from investors’ expectations, which could result in
significant volatility in the Company’s stock price.

The Company publicly announces its financial results on a monthly basis, in
addition to the quarterly and annual public filings required by law. The
Company believes that this level of reporting provides more timely disclosure
to shareholders and potential investors, enabling them to enhance their
understanding of the Company’s performance. Such reports, however, may
disclose variation of results that investors might not see in quarterly
reports. Consequently, investor reaction to such variation could result in
significant volatility in the Company’s stock price.

Similarly, under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to
record a significant loss or other adjustment to income in a specific monthly
or quarterly reporting period in the event of a significant reserve adjustment,
catastrophic loss, development(s) in litigation against the Company,
other-than-temporary impairment write down of one or more investments, or other
extraordinary events. In addition, the change in market value of certain
derivative instruments the Company holds may also affect reported income. Such
events may make the Company’s reported results appear volatile and could
adversely affect the market for the Company’s stock.

Competitive Factors

The automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets in which the
Company operates are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally
compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims
handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage.
Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies,
some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents,
and by smaller regional insurers. The Company relies heavily on
technology and extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and
price according to risk potential. The Company has remained competitive by closely managing expenses
and achieving operating efficiencies, and by refining its risk measurement and
price segmentation skills. Superior customer service, claims adjusting and
strong brand recognition are also important factors in the Company’s
competitive strategy.


State Insurance Licenses

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various
insurance authorities. These licenses may be of perpetual duration or
renewable periodically, provided the holder continues to meet applicable
regulatory requirements. The licenses govern the kinds of insurance coverages
that may be written in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued
only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of
prescribed criteria. All licenses that are material to the subsidiaries’
businesses are in good standing.

Insurance Regulation

The insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision
by insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
licensed to transact business. At least one of the insurance subsidiaries is
licensed and subject to regulation in each of the 50 states and the District of
Columbia. The nature and extent of such regulation and supervision varies from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, an insurance company is subject to a
higher degree of regulation and supervision in its state of domicile. The
Company’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates are domiciled in the states of
Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, New York, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin. State insurance departments
have broad administrative power relating to licensing insurers and agents,
regulating premium rates and policy forms, establishing reserve requirements,
prescribing statutory accounting methods and the form and content of statutory
financial reports, and regulating the type and amount of investments permitted.
Rate regulation varies from “use and file” to prior approval to mandated
rates.

Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that
insurance companies maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a
variety of operational standards. Insurance companies are generally required
to file detailed annual and other reports with the insurance department of each
jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments are
authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers’
financial condition and operations to monitor financial stability of the
insurers and to ensure adherence to statutory accounting principles and
compliance with state insurance laws and regulations.

Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance
authorities the power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other
transactions and to require periodic disclosure of certain information. These
laws impose prior approval requirements for certain transactions between
regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally regulate dividend and
other distributions, including loans and cash advances, between regulated
insurers and their affiliates. See the “Subsidiary Dividends” discussion in
Item 5(c) for further information on these dividend limitations.

Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed or
required to contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses
resulting from the insolvency of other insurers. Insurers are also required by
many states, as a condition of doing business in the state, to provide coverage
to certain risks which are not insurable in the voluntary market. These
“assigned risk” plans generally specify the types of insurance and the level of
coverage which must be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as the
allowable premium. Many states also have involuntary market plans which hire a
limited number of servicing carriers to provide insurance to involuntary risks.
These plans, through assessments, pass underwriting and administrative
expenses on to insurers that write voluntary coverages in those states.

Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain
sufficient surplus to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings
to surplus that the regulators will allow is a function of a number of factors,
including the type of business being written, the adequacy of the insurer’s
reserves, the quality of the insurer’s assets and the identity of the
regulator, the annual net premiums that an insurer may write are generally
limited in relation to the insurer’s total policyholders’ surplus. Thus, the
amount of an insurer’s surplus may, in certain cases, limit its ability to grow
its business. The Company intends to begin a process to slowly increase
operating leverage through a higher rate of net premiums to surplus in its
agency, direct and commercial insurance subsidiaries where permitted. The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners also has developed a risk-based
capital (RBC) program to enable regulators to take appropriate and timely
regulatory actions relating to insurers that show signs of weak or


deteriorating financial condition. RBC is a series of dynamic surplus-related
formulas which contain a variety of factors that are applied to financial
balances based on a degree of certain risks, such as asset, credit and
underwriting risks.

Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a
market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to
cancel or non-renew policies. Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer
from withdrawing one or more lines of business from the state, except pursuant
to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state
insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption.
Laws and regulations that limit the cancellation or non-renewal of policies and
that subject program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an
insurer’s ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and
developments arise. Some changes may be due to economic developments, such as
changes in investment laws made to recognize new investment vehicles; other
changes result from such general pressures as consumer resistance to price
increases and concerns relating to insurer solvency. In recent years,
legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced, and in some cases
adopted, which deal with use of non-public consumer information, use of
financial responsibility and credit information in underwriting, insurance rate
development, rate determination and the ability of insurers to cancel or
non-renew insurance policies, reflecting concerns about consumer privacy,
coverage, availability, prices and alleged discriminatory pricing. In
addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal
agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to
determine whether federal regulation is necessary.

In a number of states, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries use financial
responsibility or credit information (credit) as part of the underwriting or
rating process. This practice is expressly authorized by the federal Fair
Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and the Company’s data demonstrates that credit is
an effective predictor of insurance risk. The use of credit in underwriting
and rating is the subject of significant regulatory and legislative activity.
Regulators and legislators have expressed a number of concerns related to the
use of credit, including: questions regarding the accuracy of credit reports,
perceptions that credit may have a disparate impact on the poor and certain
minority groups, the perceived lack of a demonstrated causal relationship
between credit and insurance risk, the treatment of persons with limited or no
credit, the impact of extraordinary life events (i.e., catastrophic injury or
death of a spouse), and concerns about the credit attributes applied in the
credit scoring models used by insurers. A number of state insurance
departments have issued bulletins, directives or regulations to regulate the
use of credit by insurers. In addition, a number of states are considering or
have passed legislation to regulate insurers’ use of credit. Also, Congress
recently mandated that the federal government conduct a disparate impact study
of the use of credit. It is possible that Congress may enact further
legislation affecting the use of credit in underwriting and rating following
completion of that study.

In some states, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure in
past years from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce,
freeze or set rates to or at levels that are not necessarily related to
underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back automobile and other
personal lines rates. This kind of activity has adversely affected, and may in
the future adversely affect, the profitability and growth of the subsidiaries’
automobile insurance business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the
subsidiaries’ ability to increase rates to compensate for increases in costs.
Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the subsidiaries’ ability
to price automobile insurance adequately, or affecting the subsidiaries’
insurance operations adversely in other ways, may occur in the future. The
impact of these regulatory changes on the subsidiaries’ businesses cannot be
predicted.


Statutory Accounting Principles

The Company’s results are reported in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), which differ from amounts reported under
statutory accounting principles (SAP) prescribed by insurance regulatory
authorities. Primarily, under GAAP:

Investments

The Company employs a conservative approach to investment and capital
management intended to ensure that there is sufficient capital to support all
of the insurance premium that can be profitably written. The Company’s
portfolio is invested primarily in short-term and intermediate-term,
investment-grade fixed-income securities. The Company’s investment portfolio,
at market value, was $12.5 billion at December 31, 2003, compared to $10.3
billion at December 31, 2002. Investment income is affected by shifts in the
type and quality of investments in the portfolio, changes in interest rates and
other factors. Investment income, including net realized gains/losses on
securities, before expenses and taxes, was $478.0 million in 2003, compared to
$376.6 million in 2002 and $301.7 million in 2001. See Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, beginning on
page App.-B-24 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this
Form 10-K.

Employees

The number of employees, excluding temporary employees, at December 31, 2003,
was 25,834.


Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (LAE) of the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries. The Company’s objective is to ensure that total reserves (i.e.
case and incurred but not reported reserves-IBNR) are adequate to cover all
loss costs, while sustaining minimal variation from the time reserves are
initially established until losses are fully developed. The liabilities for
losses and LAE are determined using actuarial and statistical procedures and
represent undiscounted estimates of the ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses
and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year. These estimates are subject
to the effect of future trends on claim settlement. These estimates are
continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops and new information
becomes known. Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in the current results
of operations.

The accompanying tables present an analysis of property-casualty losses and
LAE. The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
estimated liability balances for 2003, 2002 and 2001 on a GAAP basis.

RECONCILIATION OF NET RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

During 2003 and 2001, the Company experienced $56.1 million and $99.0 million,
respectively, of favorable loss reserve development, compared to $3.5 million
of unfavorable development in 2002. In addition to the favorable claims
settlement during 2003, the Company benefited from a change in its estimate of
the Company’s future operating losses due to business assigned from the New
York Automobile Insurance Plan. During 2002, the Company made no significant
change to the estimate of loss reserves recorded in prior years. The favorable
development in 2001 is primarily attributable to the settlement of claims at
less than amounts reserved and primarily relates to the 2000 accident year.
The Company conducts extensive reviews each month on portions of its business
to help ensure that the Company is meeting its objective of having reserves
that are adequate, with minimal variation.

The anticipated effect of inflation is explicitly considered when estimating
liabilities for losses and LAE. In addition, the Company takes into account
the projected increase in average severities of claims, which is caused by a
number of factors that vary with the individual type of policy written. Future
average severities are projected based on historical trends adjusted for
anticipated changes in underwriting standards, inflation, policy provisions and
general economic trends. These anticipated trends are monitored based on
actual development and are modified if necessary.

The Company has not entered into any loss reserve transfers or similar
transactions having a material effect on earnings or reserves.


ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT

(millions)

YEAR ENDED








LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE - GROSS

$

1,347.2

$

1,432.9

$

1,610.5

$

1,800.6

$

2,146.6

$

2,188.6

LESS: REINSURANCE
RECOVERABLE ON UNPAID
LOSSES

334.8

334.2

296.1

267.7

279.1

242.8

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE - NET


$

1,012.4

$

1,098.7

$

1,314.4

$

1,532.9

$

1,867.5

$

1,945.8

PAID (CUMULATIVE) AS OF:

One year later

417.0

525.3

593.0

743.6

922.0

1,082.8

Two years later

589.8

706.4

838.9

1,034.5

1,289.6

1,487.9

Three years later

664.1

810.6

960.1

1,266.1

1,474.9

1,680.6

Four years later

709.9

857.1

1,057.1

1,351.1

1,554.1

1,785.7

Five years later

729.8

892.7

1,092.5

1,384.0

1,596.7

1,836.4

Six years later

742.2

909.7

1,106.3

1,399.9

1,618.2

—

Seven years later

752.8

917.1

1,112.3

1,408.9

—

—

Eight years later

757.4

919.7

1,117.6

—

—

—

Nine years later

759.1

922.6

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

761.0

—

—

—

—

—

LIABILITY RE-ESTIMATED
AS OF:

One year later

869.9

1,042.1

1,208.6

1,429.6

1,683.3

1,916.0

Two years later

837.8

991.7

1,149.5

1,364.5

1,668.5

1,910.6

Three years later

811.3

961.2

1,118.6

1,432.3

1,673.1

1,917.3

Four years later

794.6

940.6

1,137.7

1,451.0

1,669.2

1,908.2

Five years later

782.9

945.5

1,153.3

1,445.1

1,664.7

1,919.0

Six years later

780.1

952.7

1,150.1

1,442.0

1,674.5

—

Seven years later

788.6

952.6

1,146.2

1,445.6

—

—

Eight years later

787.5

949.7

1,147.4

—

—

—

Nine years later

787.0

950.9

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

787.7

—

—

—

—

—

CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT:

CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

224.7

$

147.8

$

167.0

$

87.3

$

193.0

$

26.8

PERCENTAGE


22.2

13.5

12.7

5.7

10.3

1.4

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE - GROSS

$

1,036.4

$

1,200.4

$

1,394.0

$

1,714.6

$

1,932.9

$

2,147.7

LESS: RE-ESTIMATED
REINSURANCE RECOVERABLE
ON UNPAID LOSSES

248.7

249.5

246.6

269.0

258.4

228.7

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE


- NET

$

787.7

$

950.9

$

1,147.4

$

1,445.6

$

1,674.5

$

1,919.0

GROSS CUMULATIVE
DEVELOPMENT:

CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

310.8

$

232.5

$

216.5

$

86.0

$

213.7

$

40.9

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

YEAR ENDED






LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE - GROSS

$

2,416.2

$

2,986.4

$

3,238.0

$

3,813.0

$

4,576.3

LESS: REINSURANCE
RECOVERABLE ON UNPAID
LOSSES

216.0

201.1

168.3

180.9

229.9

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE - NET


$

2,200.2

$

2,785.3

$

3,069.7

$

3,632.1

$

4,346.4

PAID (CUMULATIVE) AS OF:

One year later

1,246.5

1,409.3

1,601.7

1,860.7

Two years later

1,738.5

2,047.2

2,290.7

—

Three years later

2,001.4

2,355.0

—

—

Four years later

2,126.4

—

—

—

Five years later

—

—

—

—

Six years later

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

—

—

—

—

LIABILITY RE-ESTIMATED
AS OF:

One year later

2,276.0

2,686.3

3,073.2

3,576.0

Two years later

2,285.4

2,708.3

3,024.2

Three years later

2,277.7

2,671.2

—

—

Four years later

2,272.3

—

—

—

Five years later

—

—

—

—

Six years later

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

—

—

—

—

CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT:

CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

(72.1

)

$

114.1

$

45.5

$

56.1

PERCENTAGE


(3.3

)

4.1

1.5

1.5

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE - GROSS

$

2,482.6

$

2,859.6

$

3,190.1

$

3,779.6

LESS: RE-ESTIMATED
REINSURANCE RECOVERABLE
ON UNPAID LOSSES

210.3

188.4

165.9

203.6

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY
FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE


- NET

$

2,272.3

$

2,671.2

$

3,024.2

$

3,576.0

GROSS CUMULATIVE
DEVELOPMENT:

CONSERVATIVE/(DEFICIENT)

$

(66.4

)

$

126.8

$

47.9

$

33.4


Represents loss and LAE reserves net of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid
losses at the balance sheet date.


Cumulative development
÷ liability for unpaid losses and LAE - Net.


In 1994, based on a review of its total loss reserves, the Company eliminated
its $71.0 million “supplemental reserve.”


The above table presents the development of balance sheet liabilities for 1993
through 2002. The top line of the table shows the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years for the property-casualty insurance subsidiaries only. This
liability represents the estimated amount of losses and LAE for claims that are
unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but
not reported. The table also presents the re-estimated liability for unpaid
losses and LAE on a gross basis, with separate disclosure of the re-estimated
reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses.

The upper section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to
the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. The
lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously
recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year.
The estimate is increased or decreased, as more information about the claims
becomes known for individual years. For example, as of December 31, 2003, the
companies had paid $922.6 million of the currently estimated $950.9 million of
losses and LAE that had been incurred through the end of 1994; thus an
estimated $28.3 million of losses incurred through 1994 remain unpaid as of the
current financial statement date.

The cumulative development represents the aggregate change in the estimates
over all prior years. For example, the 1993 liability has developed
conservatively by $224.7 million over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years and did not have a significant effect on
the income of any one year. The effects on income during the past three years
due to changes in estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE are shown in
the reconciliation table on page 14 as the “prior years” contribution to
incurred losses and LAE.

In evaluating this information, note that each cumulative development amount
includes the effects of all changes in amounts during the current year for
prior periods. For example, the amount of the development related to losses
settled in 1996, but incurred in 1993, will be included in the cumulative
development amount for years 1993, 1994 and 1995. Conditions and trends that
have affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily
occur in the future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to
extrapolate future development based on this table.

The Company experienced continually favorable reserve development through 1998
primarily due to the decreasing bodily injury severity. From the fourth
quarter 1993 continuously through the third quarter 1998, the Company’s bodily
injury severity decreased each quarter when compared to the same quarter the
prior year. This period of decreasing severity for the Company was not only
longer than that experienced by the industry but also longer than any time in
Progressive’s history. The adverse development in 2000, primarily for the 1999
accident year, reflects the Company’s inability to fully recognize the
increasing loss trends that were emerging. The reserves established as of the
end of each year assumed the current accident year’s severity to increase over
the prior accident year’s estimate. As the experience continued to be
evaluated at later dates, the realization of the decreased severity resulted
in favorable reserve development.

During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves, the
Company eliminated its $71.0 million “supplemental reserve.” Prior to 1994,
the Company established case and IBNR reserves by product with the objective of
being accurate to within plus or minus two percent. Pricing had been based on
these estimates of reserves by product. Because the Company desired a very
high degree of comfort that aggregate reserves were adequate, aggregate
reserves were established near the upper end of the reasonable range of
reserves, and the difference between such aggregate reserves and the midpoint
of the reasonable range of case and IBNR reserves was called the “supplemental
reserve.” The Company concluded, after examining its historical aggregate
reserves, that the practice of setting aggregate reserves at the upper end of
the range of reasonable reserves provided an unnecessarily high level of
comfort. Even without the high level of comfort provided by the “supplemental
reserve,” the Company’s reserves had generally been adequate. The Company
believes that this change in the carried level of its reserves placed the
Company more in line with the practices of other companies in the industry.

The Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Development table on page 15
is constructed from Schedule P, Part-1, from the Consolidated Annual
Statements, as filed with the state insurance departments. This development
table differs from the development displayed in Schedule P, Part-2 due to the
fact Schedule P, Part-2 excludes adjusting costs and reflects the change in the
method of accounting for salvage and subrogation for 1994 and 1993.


(d) Financial Information about geographic areas.

The Company operates throughout the United States. The Company ceased writing
new business in Canada in 1999.

(e) Available information.

The Company’s Web site is progressive.com. As soon as reasonably practicable,
the Company makes all documents filed or furnished with the SEC, including its
reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and any amendement to these
reports, available free of charge via its Web site at
progressive.com/investors.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s corporate headquarters office complex is located on a 42-acre
parcel in Mayfield Village, Ohio. The Company also owns a 72-acre corporate
office complex near the headquarters. Buildings on these two sites, which are
owned by a subsidiary of the Company, contain approximately 1.4 million square
feet in total.

The Company also owns seven other buildings in suburbs near the corporate
office complexes, six buildings in Tampa, Florida, and a building in each of
the following cities: Tempe, Arizona; Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; Albany, New
York; Tigard, Oregon; Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania; and Austin, Texas. Three
of these buildings are partially leased to non-affiliates. In total, these
buildings contain approximately 1.6 million square feet of office, warehouse
and training facility space and are owned by subsidiaries of the Company.
These facilities are occupied by the Company’s business units or other
operations and are not segregated by industry segment.

The Company leases approximately 1.1 million square feet of office and
warehouse space at various locations throughout the United States for its other
business units and staff functions. In addition, the Company leases
approximately 450 claims offices, consisting of approximately 2.9 million
square feet, at various locations throughout the United States. These leases
are generally short-term to medium-term leases of standard commercial office
space.

As the Company continues to grow, it expects that it will need additional space
and is actively engaged in seeking out additional locations to meet its current
and anticipated needs. The Company is currently constructing call centers in
Colorado Springs, Colorado and Tampa, Florida and an office building in
Mayfield Village, Ohio. These three projects are expected to be completed in
2004 at an aggregate estimated total project cost of $128 million. Further,
during January 2004, the Company began leasing a call center in Phoenix,
Arizona.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Incorporated by reference from Note 11, Litigation, beginning on page App.-B-21
of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2003.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference from information with respect to executive officers
of The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries set forth in Item 10 in
Part III of this Form 10-K.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(a) Market Information and Dividends

The Company’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol PGR. The high and low prices set forth below are as
reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system.

The closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on January 31, 2004 was
$82.65.

On March 19, 2002, the Board of Directors of The Progressive Corporation
approved a 3-for-1 split of the Company’s Common Shares which was effected in
the form of a stock dividend. In connection with the transaction, two
additional Common Shares were issued on April 22, 2002, for each Common Share
held by shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 1, 2002.
The purpose of the stock split was to increase the supply of the Company’s
Common Shares and to improve the liquidity of the stock. All of the
information presented above has been adjusted for the stock split.

(b) Holders

There were 4,101 shareholders of record on January 31, 2004.

(c) Subsidiary Dividends

Statutory policyholders’ surplus was $4.5 billion and $3.4 billion at December
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. At December 31, 2003, $492.7 million of
consolidated statutory policyholders’ surplus represented net admitted assets
of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates that are required to
meet minimum statutory surplus requirements in such entities’ states of
domicile. The companies may be licensed in states other than their states of
domicile, which may have higher minimum statutory surplus requirements.
Generally, the net admitted assets of insurance companies that, subject to
other applicable insurance laws and regulations, are available for transfer to
the parent company cannot include the net admitted assets required to meet the
minimum statutory surplus requirements of the states where the companies are
licensed. Based on the dividend laws currently in effect, the insurance
subsidiaries may pay aggregate dividends of $967.2 million in 2004 without
prior approval from regulatory authorities.


(d) Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation
plans.

The following information is set forth with respect to the equity compensation
plan information at December 31, 2003.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

(e) Share Repurchases

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Total Number of Shares Purchased

Maximum Number of Shares That

Total Number of

Average Price Paid per

as Part of Publicly Announced Plans

May Yet Be Purchased Under the


Shares Purchased

Share

or Programs

Plans or Programs

January

400,000

$

52.23

400,000

8,625,406

February

696,355

50.68

1,096,355

7,929,051

March


735,500

58.82

1,831,855

7,193,551

April


836,000

67.83

836,000

14,164,000

May

206,000

69.66

1,042,000

13,958,000

June

300,000

74.57

1,342,000

13,658,000

July

500,000

66.37

1,842,000

13,158,000

August

521,804

69.50

2,363,804

12,636,196

September

504,703

71.27

2,868,507

12,131,493

October

250,000

74.00

3,118,507

11,881,493

November

—

—

3,118,507

11,881,493

December

—

—

3,118,507

11,881,493

Total

4,950,362

$

64.00


In April 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
15,000,000 Common Shares, superceding the previous authorization set in April
1996. The Company may purchase its shares from time to time, in the open
market or otherwise, when opportunities exist to buy at attractive prices or
for purposes which are otherwise in the best interest of the Company.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(millions - except per share amounts)

For the years ended December 31,






Total revenues

$

11,892.0

$

9,294.4

$

7,488.2

$

6,771.0

$

6,124.2

Net income

1,255.4

667.3

411.4

46.1

295.2

Per share:


Net income


5.69

2.99

1.83

.21

1.32

Dividends

.100

.096

.093

.090

.087

Total assets

16,281.5

13,564.4

11,122.4

10,051.6

9,704.7

Debt outstanding

1,489.8

1,489.0

1,095.7

748.8

1,048.6


All per share amounts were adjusted for the April 22, 2002, 3-for-1 stock
split.


Presented on a diluted basis.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Incorporated by reference from Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page
App.-B-24 of
the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated
by reference from the “Investments” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as described in Item
7 above. Additional information is incorporated by reference from the
“Quantitative Market Risk Disclosures” section beginning on page App.-B-46 of
the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, along with the related
notes, supplementary data and report of independent auditors, are incorporated
by reference from the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this
Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None


ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company, under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, has established disclosure controls and procedures that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. The
disclosure controls and procedures are also intended to ensure that such
information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer reviewed and
evaluated the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the
period covered by this report. Based on that review and evaluation, the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures are effectively serving the stated purposes
as of the end of the period covered by this report.

In addition, there has been no change in the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting during the Company’s most recent fiscal year that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to all of the directors, and the individuals who have been
nominated for election as directors at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
of the Registrant, is incorporated herein by reference from the section
entitled “Election of Directors” in the Proxy Statement.

Information relating to executive officers of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries follows. Unless otherwise indicated, the executive officer has
held the position(s) indicated for at least the last five years.

Name

Age

Offices Held and Last
Five Years’ Business Experience

Glenn M. Renwick


President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001; Chief
Executive Officer - Insurance Operations of the Company during
2000; Chief Technology Officer prior to March 2000; President,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Progressive
Casualty Insurance Company, the principal subsidiary of the
Registrant, since March 2000

W. Thomas Forrester


Vice President since June 2001; Chief Financial Officer; Treasurer
prior to July 2001

Charles E. Jarrett


Vice President since June 2001; Secretary since February 2001;
Chief Legal Officer since November 2000; Partner at Baker &
Hostetler LLP, which is the principal outside law firm of the
Company, prior to November 2000

Jeffrey W. Basch


Vice President since December 1999; Chief Accounting Officer

Thomas A. King


Treasurer since April 2003; Investment Strategist from February
2001 to March 2003; Vice President since December 1999; Corporate
Controller prior to February 2001

Alan R. Bauer


Group President of the Direct Business since January 2002;
Internet Business Leader prior to December 2001

William M. Cody


Chief Investment Officer since February 2003; Portfolio Manager
prior to February 2003

Susan Patricia Griffith


Chief Human Resource Officer since April 2002; Process Manager for
Claims Central Services from January 2001 to April 2002; Regional
Claims Consultant from December 1999 to December 2000; Regional
Claims and Sales Manager for Pennsylvania prior to December 1999

Brian J. Passell


Group President of Claims since January 2002; Claims Business
Leader prior to December 2001

Raymond M. Voelker


Chief Information Officer since April 2000; Information Technology
Executive - Claims and Infrastructure Technologies from December
1999 to March 2000; Claims Technology Executive prior to December


Name

Age

Offices Held and Last
Five Years’ Business Experience

Richard H. Watts


Group President of Sales and Service since January 2002; Direct
Business Leader from January 2000 to December 2001; General
Manager of Northeast Ohio prior to January 2000

Robert T. Williams


Group President of the Agency Business since January 2002; Agency
Business Leader from April 2000 to December 2001; Chief
Pricing/Product Officer prior to April 2000

Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.

None

Audit Committee.

Incorporated by reference from the “Audit Committee” section
(which can be found in “Item 1- Election of Directors”) of the Proxy Statement.

Financial Expert.

Incorporated by reference from the “Audit Committee Financial
Expert “ section (which can be found in “Item 1- Election of Directors”) of the
Proxy Statement

Code of Ethics.

The Company’s Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial officers is available at:
progressive.com/governance, or may be requested in print by writing to: The
Progressive Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300 Wilson Mills Road, Box W33,
Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.
The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of
Form 10-K regarding amendments to, and waivers from, the provisions of the
foregoing Code of Ethics by posting such information on the Company’s Internet
website at: progressive.com/governance.

Shareholder-Proposed Candidate Procedures.

In January 2004, the Nominating and
Governance Committee of the Board of Directors approved new procedures for
shareholders to recommend candidates for nomination to the Board. The
description of those new procedures are incorporated by reference from the
“Shareholder-Proposed Candidate Procedures” (which can be found in “Item 1-
Election of Directors”) of the Proxy Statement.

Disclosures required by the New York Stock Exchange.

The Company’s Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Board Committee Charters (including charters for the
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Investment and Capital Committee, and
the Nominating and Governance Committee) are available at:
progressive.com/governance, or may be requested in print by writing to: The
Progressive Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300 Wilson Mills Road, Box W33,
Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.

The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and
Employees is available at: progressive.com/governance, or may be requested in
print by writing to: The Progressive Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300
Wilson Mills Road, Box W33, Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Executive Compensation.”

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Election of Directors - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.”

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Other Independent Auditor Information.”


PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)(1)

Listing of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
included in the Registrant’s 2003 Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this
Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

(a)(2)

Listing of Financial Statement
Schedules

The following financial statement schedules of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, Report of
Independent Auditors and Consent of Independent Auditors are included in Item 15(d):

Schedules

Schedule I - Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties

Schedule II - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

Schedule III - Supplementary Insurance Information

Schedule IV - Reinsurance

Schedule VI - Supplemental Information Concerning Property-Casualty
Insurance Operations

Report of Independent Auditors

Consent of Independent Accountants

No other schedules are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Article 7
of Regulation S-X.



SCHEDULE I — SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS — OTHER

THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

The Company did not have any securities of one issuer with an aggregate cost or
market value exceeding 10% of total shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2003.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

See notes to condensed financial statements.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying condensed financial statements of The Progressive Corporation
(the “Registrant”) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto of The Progressive Corporation and
subsidiaries included in the Registrant’s 2003 Annual Report, which is included
as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS — For the purpose of the Statements of Cash Flows,
cash includes only bank demand deposits. The Registrant paid income taxes of
$579.0 million in 2003, and $392.0 million and $127.3 million in 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Total interest paid was $98.9 million for 2003 and $64.2 million
for 2002 and $51.3 million in 2001. Non-cash activity includes the liability
for deferred restricted stock compensation, the contribution of restricted
stock from the Registrant to its subsidiaries and a $17.3 million
stock dividend received from a consolidated subsidiary.

On April 22, 2002, the Registrant effected
  a 3-for-1 split of its Common Shares, $1.00 par value, in the form of a dividend
  to shareholders. In connection with this transaction, the Registrant transferred
  $147.0 million from retained earnings to the Common Share account. All
  per share and share amounts and stock prices were adjusted to give effect to
  the split. Treasury shares were not split.

DEBT — Debt at December 31 consisted of:



Market

Market

Cost

Value

Cost

Value

(millions)

6.60% Notes due 2004 (issued: $200.0, January 1994)

$

200.0

$

200.3

$

199.8

$

208.1

7.30% Notes due 2006 (issued: $100.0, May 1996)

99.9

110.8

99.8

110.9

6.375% Senior Notes due 2012 (issued: $350.0, December
2001)

347.5

382.6

347.2

370.4

7% Notes due 2013 (issued: $150.0, October 1993)

148.8

171.0

148.7

165.5

6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2029 (issued: $300.0, March 1999)

294.0

312.5

294.0

295.8

6.25% Senior Notes due 2032 (issued: $400.0, November 2002)

393.6

408.8

393.5

432.2

$

1,483.8

$

1,586.0

$

1,483.0

$

1,582.9

Debt includes amounts the Registrant has borrowed and contributed to the
capital of its insurance subsidiaries or borrowed for other long-term purposes.
Market values are obtained from publicly quoted sources. Interest on all debt
is payable semiannually and all principal is due at maturity. There are no
restrictive financial covenants.

The 6.25% Senior Notes, the 6.375% Senior Notes and the 6 5/8% Senior Notes
(collectively, “Senior Notes”) may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time,
at the option of the Registrant, subject to a “make whole” provision. All
other debt is noncallable.

In May 1990, the Registrant entered into a revolving credit arrangement with
National City Bank, which is reviewed by the bank annually. Under this
agreement, the Registrant has the right to borrow up to $10.0 million. By
selecting from available credit options, the Registrant may elect to pay
interest at rates related to the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), the
bank’s base rate or at a money market rate. A commitment fee is payable on any
unused portion of the committed amount at the rate of .125% per annum. The
Registrant had no borrowings under this arrangement at December 31, 2003 or
2002. This credit line was replaced by a new credit facility with National
City Bank on January 27, 2004. The material terms of the new credit facility
are the same as those of the prior arrangement, except that the Registrant may
elect to pay interest at the prime rate or rates related to the LIBOR.

Aggregate principal payments on debt outstanding at December 31, 2003 are
$200.0 for 2004, $0 million for 2005, $100.0 for 2006, $0 million for 2007, $0
in 2008 and $1.2 billion thereafter.


SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

INCOME TAXES — The Registrant files a consolidated Federal income tax return
with all subsidiaries. The Federal income taxes in the accompanying Condensed
Balance Sheets represent amounts payable to the Internal Revenue Service by the
Registrant as agent for the consolidated tax group. The Registrant and its
subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of
allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the
subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Intercompany
Receivable from Subsidiaries in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES — The Registrant, through its
investment in consolidated subsidiaries, recognizes the changes in unrealized
gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities of the subsidiaries. These
amounts were:

(millions)




Changes in unrealized gains (losses):

Available-for-sale: fixed maturities

$

(68.7

)

$

227.1

$

33.7

equity securities

462.2

(164.0

)

46.1

Deferred income taxes

(137.7

)

(22.2

)

(27.8

)

$

255.8

$

40.9

$

52.0

OTHER MATTERS — The information relating to incentive compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from Note 8, Employee Benefit Plans, “Incentive
Compensation Plans” beginning on page App.-B-16 of the Annual Report, which is
included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.


SCHEDULE III — SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]


The Company does not allocate assets, liabilities or investment income to
operating segments.


Excluding investment expenses of $11.5 million in 2003 and 2002 and $12.7
million in 2001.


SCHEDULE IV — REINSURANCE

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Assumed

Percentage

Ceded to

From

of Amount

Other

Other

Assumed

Year Ended:

Gross Amount

Companies

Companies

Net Amount

to Net

December 31, 2003

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

11,597.5

$

256.5

$

—

$

11,341.0

—

December 31, 2002

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

9,078.1

$

194.7

$

.1

$

8,883.5

—

December 31, 2001

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

7,299.0

$

137.3

$

.1

$

7,161.8

—


SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY — CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Losses and Loss Adjustment

Paid Losses and

Expenses Incurred Related to

Loss Adjustment Expenses

Year Ended

Current Year

Prior Years

December 31, 2003

$

7,696.5

$

(56.1

)

$

6,926.1

December 31, 2002

$

6,295.6

$

3.5

$

5,736.7

December 31, 2001

$

5,363.1

$

(99.0

)

$

4,979.7

Pursuant to Rule 12-18 of Regulation S-X. See Schedule III, page 32, for the
additional information required in Schedule VI.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 21, 2004, in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is included
as an Appendix to The Progressive Corporation’s 2004 Proxy Statement (which
report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial
statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion,
these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

January 21, 2004


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on:

Form

Filing No.

Filing Date

S-8

333-104646

April 21, 2003

S-8

333-104653

April 21, 2003

S-3

333-100674

October 22, 2002

S-8

333-41238

July 12, 2000

S-8

333-51613

May 1, 1998

S-8

333-25197

April 15, 1997

S-8

33-57121

December 29, 1994

S-8

33-64210

June 10, 1993

S-8

33-51034

August 20, 1992

S-8

33-38793

February 4, 1991

S-8

33-37707

November 9, 1990

S-8

33-33240

January 31, 1990

S-8

33-16509

August 14, 1987

of The Progressive Corporation of our report dated January 21, 2004 relating to
the financial statements, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is included as an Appendix to The Progressive Corporation’s 2004 Proxy
Statement, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also
consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 21, 2004
relating to the financial statement schedules, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

March 1, 2004


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

March 4, 2004

BY:

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Glenn M. Renwick

Director, President and
Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

*

Peter B. Lewis

Director, Chairman of the
        Board

March 4, 2004

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Glenn M. Renwick

Director, President and Chief
        Executive Officer

March 4, 2004

/s/ W. Thomas Forrester

W. Thomas Forrester

Vice President and Chief Financial
        Officer

March 4, 2004

/s/ Jeffrey W. Basch

Jeffrey W. Basch

Vice President and Chief Accounting
        Officer

March 4, 2004

*

Milton N. Allen

Director

March 4, 2004

*

B. Charles Ames

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Charles A. Davis

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Stephen R. Hardis

Director

March 4, 2004


*

Bernadine P. Healy, M.D.

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Jeffrey D. Kelly

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Philip A. Laskawy

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Norman S. Matthews

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Donald B. Shackelford

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Bradley T. Sheares, Ph.D.

Director

March 4, 2004

*

Charles E. Jarrett, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document
on behalf of the persons indicated above pursuant to a power of attorney
duly executed by such persons.

By

/s/ Charles E. Jarrett

March 4, 2004

Charles E. Jarrett

Attorney-in-fact


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(3)(i)

3(A)

Amended Articles of
Incorporation, as amended, of The
Progressive Corporation
(“Progressive”)

Registration
Statement No.
333-104646 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(d) therein)

(3)(ii)

3(B)

Code of Regulations of Progressive

Registration
Statement No.
333-104646 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(e) therein)

(4)

4(A)

$10,000,000 Unsecured Line of
Credit with National City Bank
(dated May 23, 1990; renewed May
20, 1992; amended
February 1, 1994 and May 1, 1997)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
4(A) therein)

(4)

4(B)

$10,000,000 Commercial Note:
Revolving Credit with National
City Bank (dated January 27,
2004)

Filed herewith

(4)

4(C)

Indenture dated as of September
15, 1993 between Progressive and
State Street Bank and Trust
Company (successor in interest to
The First National Bank of
Boston), as Trustee (“1993 Senior
Indenture”) (including table of
contents and cross-reference
sheet)

Registration
Statement No.
333-48935 (filed
with SEC on March
31, 1998; Exhibit
4.1 therein)

(4)

4(D)

Form of 7% Notes due 2013 issued
in the aggregate principal amount
of $150,000,000 under the 1993
Senior Indenture

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
27, 1999; Exhibit
4(H) therein)

(4)

4(E)

Form of 6.60% Notes due 2004
issued in the aggregate principal
amount of $200,000,000 under the
1993 Senior Indenture

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
30, 2000; Exhibit
4(H) therein)

(4)

4(F)

First Supplemental Indenture
dated March 15, 1996 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, evidencing the
designation of State Street Bank
and Trust Company as successor
Trustee under the 1993 Senior
Indenture

Registration
Statement No.
333-01745 (filed
with SEC on March
15, 1996; Exhibit
4.2 therein)

(4)

4(G)

Form of 7.30% Notes due 2006,
issued in the aggregate principal
amount of $100,000,000 under the
1993 Senior Indenture, as amended
and supplemented

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
4(J) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(4)

4(H)

Second Supplemental Indenture
dated February 26, 1999 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee,
supplementing and amending the
1993 Senior Indenture

Filed herewith

(4)

4(I)

Form of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due
2029, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $300,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Filed herewith

(4)

4(J)

Third Supplemental Indenture
dated December 7, 2001 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee

Current Report on
Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on
December 10, 2001;
Exhibit 4.5
therein)

(4)

4(K)

Form of 6.375% Senior Notes due
2012, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $350,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Current Report on
Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on
December 10, 2001;
Exhibit 4.6
therein)

(4)

4(L)

Fourth Supplemental Indenture
dated November 21, 2002 between
Progressive and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee

Current Report on
Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on
November 21, 2002;
Exhibit 4.6
therein)

(4)

4(M)

Form of 6.25% Senior Notes due
2032, issued in the aggregate
principal amount of $400,000,000
under the 1993 Senior Indenture,
as amended and supplemented

Current Report on
Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on
November 21, 2002;
Exhibit 4.7
therein)

(10)(ii)

10(A)

Aircraft Management Agreement
dated April 23, 1999, between
Village Transport Corp. and ACME
Operating Corporation

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
30, 2000; Exhibit
10(E) therein)

(10)(ii)

10(B)

Hangar Sharing Agreement dated as
of June 1, 2002 between
Progressive Casualty Insurance
Company and ACME Operating
Corporation

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(B) therein)

(10)(ii)

10(C)

Reimbursement Agreement dated
December 23, 2002 between Village
Transport Corp. and ACME
Operating Corporation

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(C) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(D)

The Progressive Corporation 2002

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
28, 2002; Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(E)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(F)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Gainsharing Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(G)

2003 Progressive Capital

Management Bonus Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(H)

2004 Progressive Capital

Management Bonus Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(I)

The Progressive Corporation 1999
Executive Bonus Plan
(as amended on January 31, 2003)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(J)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Executive Bonus Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(K)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Information Technology Incentive

Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(L)

The Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (amended and
restated as of April 24, 1992, as
further amended on July 1, 1992
and February 5, 1993)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
27, 1999; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(M)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (single award)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
10(R) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(N)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (multiple awards)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
10(S) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(O)

The Progressive Corporation 1995

Incentive Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
30, 2000; Exhibit
10(P) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(P)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The
Progressive Corporation 1995
Incentive Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(M) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(Q)

Form of Objective-Based (now
known as Performance-Based)
Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1995 Incentive Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
10(T) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(R)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Incentive Plan

Registration
Statement No.
333-104646 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(a) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(S)

Form of The Progressive
Corporation 2003 Incentive Plan
Restricted Stock Award Agreement
(Time-Based Award)

Registration
Statement No.
333-104646 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(b) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(T)

Form of The Progressive
Corporation 2003 Incentive Plan
Restricted Stock Award Agreement
(Performance-Based Award)

Registration
Statement No.
333-104646 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(c) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(U)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Directors Equity Incentive Plan

Registration
Statement No.
333-104653 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(a) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(V)

Amendment No. 1 to The
Progressive Corporation 2003
Directors Equity Incentive Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(W)

Form of The Progressive
Corporation 2003 Directors Equity
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock
Award Agreement

Registration
Statement No.
333-104653 (filed
with SEC on April
21, 2003; Exhibit
4(b) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(X)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan (2003 Amendment and
Restatement)

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12,
2003; Exhibit 10(A)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(Y)

First Amendment to The
Progressive Corporation Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan (2003
Amendment and Restatement)

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(Z)

Second Amendment to The
Progressive Corporation Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan (2003
Amendment and Restatement)

Filed herewith


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(AA)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan Deferral Agreement

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AB)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Deferral Agreement (for
2003)

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12,
2003; Exhibit
(10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AC)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Deferral Agreement

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AD)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan Time-Based Restricted Stock
Deferral Agreement (for 2003)

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12,
2003; Exhibit 10(C)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AE)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan Time-Based Restricted Stock
Deferral Agreement

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AF)

The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation
Trust (December 1, 1998 Amendment
and Restatement)

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
27, 1999; Exhibit
10(P) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AG)

The Progressive Corporation
Directors Deferral Plan
(Amendment and Restatement), as
further amended on October 25,

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AH)

The Progressive Corporation
Directors Restricted Stock
Deferral Plan

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AI)

The Progressive Corporation
Directors Restricted Stock
Deferral Plan Deferral Agreement

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AJ)

The Progressive Corporation 1990
Directors’ Stock Option Plan
(Amended and Restated as of April
24, 1992 and as further amended
on July 1, 1992)

Annual Report on
From 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(T) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AK)

The Progressive Corporation 1998
Directors’ Stock Option Plan

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(U) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(AL)

The Progressive Corporation

Executive Separation Allowance

Plan

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(I)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AM)

Separation Agreement and General
Release dated February 23, 2001
between Progressive Casualty
Insurance Company and Charles B.
Chokel

Annual Report on
Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March
29, 2001; Exhibit
10(M) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AN)

Agreement dated May 16, 2001
between The Progressive
Corporation and Glenn Renwick

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
13, 2001; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AO)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and W. Thomas
Forrester

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(A)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AP)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and W. Thomas
Forrester

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AQ)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Brian J. Passell

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(B)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AR)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between the Progressive
Corporation and Brian J. Passell

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(B)

(10)(iii)

10(AS)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Charles E.
Jarrett

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(C)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AT)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Charles E.
Jarrett

Quarterly Report on
form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AU)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Glenn M. Renwick

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(D)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AV)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Glenn M. Renwick

Quarterly Report on
form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(D) therein)


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(AW)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Richard H. Watts

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(E)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AX)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Richard H. Watts

Quarterly Report on form 10-Q
        (filed with SEC on August

14, 2003, Exhibit 10(E) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AY)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Raymond M.
Voelker

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(F)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AZ)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Raymond M.
Voelker

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BA)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Robert T.
Williams

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(G)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BB)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Robert T.
Williams

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003, Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BC)

Employment Agreement dated August
24, 2001 between The Progressive
Corporation and Alan R. Bauer

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on
November 5, 2001;
Exhibit 10(H)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BD)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive
Corporation and Alan R. Bauer

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August
14, 2003; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BE)

Employment Agreement dated April
21, 2003 between the Progressive
Corporation and S. Patricia
Griffith

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12,
2003; Exhibit 10(I)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BF)

Employment Agreement dated April
21, 2003 between the Progressive
Corporation and William M. Cody

Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12,
2003; Exhibit 10(J)
therein)

(11)


Computation of Earnings Per Share

Filed herewith

(12)


Computation of Ratio of Earnings
to Fixed Charges

Filed herewith


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference,
        Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously
        Filed with SEC

(13)


The Progressive Corporation
        2003 Annual Report to Shareholders

Filed herewith

(21)


Subsidiaries of The Progressive
        Corporation

Filed herewith

(23)


Consent of Independent Accountants

Incorporated herein by reference
        to page 36 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K

(24)


Powers of Attorney

Filed herewith

(31)

31(A)

Certification of the Principal
        Executive Officer, Glenn M. Renwick, of The Progressive Corporation, pursuant
        to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Filed herewith

(31)

31(B)

Certification of
        the Principal

Financial Officer, W. Thomas Forrester,
        of The Progressive Corporation, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
        Act of 2002

Filed herewith

(32)

32(A)

Certification of the Principal
        Executive Officer, Glenn M. Renwick, of The Progressive Corporation, pursuant
        to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Filed herewith

(32)

32(B)

Certification of the Principal
        Financial Officer, W. Thomas Forrester, of The Progressive Corporation,
        pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Filed herewith

No other exhibits are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 601 of
Regulation S-K.

46