10-K


l87143ae10-k.htm

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION-FORM 10-K

Form 10-K - The Progressive Corporation


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934

For the fiscal
year ended

December 31, 2000

or

[  ]

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number

1-9518

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

34-0963169

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(440)461-5000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange on

Title of each class

which registered

Common Shares, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

[X]

Yes

[  ]

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at January 31, 2001: $6,007,223,974

The number of the registrant’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, outstanding as
of February 28, 2001: 73,683,916

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV hereof.
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 15, 2001, for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 20, 2001, are incorporated
by reference in Part III hereof.


INTRODUCTION

The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries’ (collectively, the “Company”)
2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual Report”) contains portions of
the information required to be included in this Form 10-K, which are
incorporated herein by reference. Cross references to relevant sections of the
Annual Report are included under the appropriate items of this Form 10-K.

Portions of the information included in The Progressive Corporation’s Proxy
Statement dated March 15, 2001, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on April 20, 2001 (the “Proxy Statement”) have also been incorporated by
reference herein and are identified under the appropriate items in this Form
10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of Business

The Progressive insurance organization began business in 1937. The Progressive
Corporation, an insurance holding company formed in 1965, has 76 subsidiaries
and 2 mutual insurance company affiliates. The Progressive Corporation’s
insurance subsidiaries and affiliates provide personal automobile insurance and
other specialty property-casualty insurance and related services throughout the
United States. The Company’s property-casualty insurance products protect its
customers against collision and physical damage to their motor vehicles and
liability to others for personal injury or property damage arising out of the
use of those vehicles.

The Company offers a number of personal and commercial property-casualty
insurance products related to motor vehicles. Net premiums written were
$6,196.1 million in 2000, compared to $6,124.7 million in 1999 and $5,299.7
million in 1998. The underwriting loss was 4.4% in 2000, compared to
underwriting profit of 1.7% in 1999 and 8.4% in 1998.

Personal Lines

Of the approximately 220 United States insurance company groups writing private
passenger auto insurance, the Company ranked fourth in size for 1999 based on
volume and estimates that it held this position for 2000. For 2000, the
estimated industry premiums written, which include personal auto insurance in
the United States, were $121.9 billion, and Progressive’s share of this market
was approximately 4.6%, compared to $118.6 billion and 4.8%, respectively, in
1999, and $117.3 billion and 4.2% in 1998. Except as otherwise noted, all
industry data and Progressive’s market share or ranking in the industry were
derived either directly from data reported by A.M. Best Company Inc. (“A.M.
Best”) or were estimated using A.M. Best data as the primary source.

The Company’s Personal Lines segment writes insurance for private passenger
automobiles and recreation vehicles. This business frequently offers more than
one program in a single state, with each targeted to a specific market segment.
Personal Lines accounted for 91% of total net premiums written in 2000
compared to 93% in both 1999 and 1998. The Company’s strategy is to build
towards becoming a low-cost provider of a full line of auto insurance products
and related services, distributed through whichever channel the customer
prefers.

Private passenger automobile insurance is comprised of preferred, standard and
nonstandard automobile risks. Standard and preferred automobile risks
accounted for 54%, 47% and 35% of the Company’s total Personal Lines premiums
in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company’s goal is to compete
successfully in the standard and preferred market, which comprises about 80% of
the United States’ personal automobile insurance market.



Nonstandard automobile insurance accounts for the remaining private passenger
automobile insurance written by the Company. The size of the nonstandard
automobile insurance market changes with the insurance environment and is
estimated currently to be about 20% of the United States’ personal automobile
insurance market. Volume potential is influenced by the actions of direct
competitors, writers of standard and preferred automobile insurance and
state-mandated involuntary plans. Approximately 390 nonstandard insurance
companies, many of which are part of an affiliated group, compete for this
business. The Company is a leading writer in the nonstandard auto market.

The Company’s specialty Personal Lines products include insurance for
motorcycles, recreation vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles and
similar items. The Company’s competitors are specialty companies and large
multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not available,
based on the Company’s analysis of this market, the Company believes that it is
one of the largest participants in the specialty personal lines market.
Progressive has been the market share leader in the motorcycle product since
1998.

The Company launched a homeowners product in Arizona in March 2000. The
Company expanded this product into Michigan in October 2000 and into Maryland
and Texas in the first quarter of 2001. The Company is initially selling its
homeowners insurance through a select number of independent agents. The
Company recognizes that many consumers and agents prefer the convenience of
placing their home and auto insurance with the same company. To minimize the
overall exposure, the Company is reinsuring this product line through a 75%
quota share agreement under which the Company has a 25% net retention.

The Personal Lines business is generated either by an Agent or written directly
by the Company. The Agent channel includes business written by the Company’s
network of more than 30,000 Independent Insurance Agencies, located throughout
the United States, and through Strategic Alliance business relationships. The
Independent Insurance Agencies have the authority to bind the Company to
specified insurance coverages within prescribed underwriting guidelines,
subject to compliance with certain Company-mandated procedures. These
guidelines prescribe the kinds and amounts of coverage that may be written and
the premium rates that may be charged for specified categories of risk. The
Agencies do not have authority on behalf of the Company to settle or adjust
claims, establish underwriting guidelines, develop rates or enter into other
transactions or commitments. The Strategic Alliances channel includes
alliances with other insurance companies, financial institutions, employers and
national brokerage agencies. In 2000, the total net premiums written through
Independent Agents and Strategic Alliance agency relationships represented 77%
of the Personal Lines volume, compared to 83% in 1999 and 89% in 1998. Direct
business includes business written through 1-800-AUTO-PRO®, the
Internet (progressive.com) and the Strategic Alliance business unit on behalf
of affinity groups. Net premiums written in the Direct business were 23%, 17%
and 11% of the Personal Lines volume in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Auto insurance differs greatly by community because regulations and legal
decisions vary by state and because traffic, law enforcement, cultural
attitudes, insurance agents, medical services and auto repair services vary by
community. The Company’s organization enables it to meet varied local
conditions under a cohesive set of policies and procedures designed to provide
consistency and control. The Company’s business is organized into business
areas: Agent, Direct (which includes the Internet business) and Claims Resolution. The Agent, Direct and
Claims Resolution business areas are managed at a local level and structured
into six regions, while Internet is managed at a national level. Each
business has a business leader and a product team, with local managers at the
state or regional level. Processing (such as customer service calls, direct
sales calls and claims processing) is performed at seven regional sites in
Albany, New York; Austin, Texas; Cleveland, Ohio; Colorado Springs, Colorado;
Sacramento, California; Tampa, Florida; and Tempe, Arizona.

The Company’s executive officer team, which sets
policy and makes key strategic decisions, includes the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief
Human Resources Officer and Chief Communications Officer. The Company’s four
Business Leaders (Agent, Direct, Internet and Claims Resolution) are also part
of the executive team. The Business Leaders are challenged to develop and
manage product offerings and customer service processes tailored to the unique
requirements of customers who discover and select Progressive through different
distribution modes.



Other Businesses

The Company’s other lines of business include the Commercial Vehicle business
unit, United Financial Casualty Company (UFCC), Professional Liability Group
(PLG) and Motor Carrier business unit, which are organized by customer group
and headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. These businesses accounted for
approximately 7% of total revenue in 2000. The choice of distribution channel
is driven by each customer group’s buying preference and service needs.
Distribution channels include independent agents, financial institutions,
vehicle dealers and company-employed sales forces. Distribution arrangements
are individually negotiated between such intermediaries and the Company and are
tailored to the specific needs of the customer group and the nature of the
related financial or purchase transactions. Most of these businesses operate
in markets that are declining in size.

The Commercial Vehicle business unit provides monoline insurance which covers
automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses for primary liability,
physical damage and other supplementary insurance coverages. Based on the
Company’s analysis of this market, the Company competes for this business on a
nationwide basis with approximately 150 other companies. The Company estimates
that it is one of the largest monoline commercial auto carriers.

UFCC primarily provides physical damage insurance and related tracking services
to protect the commercial or retail lender’s interest in collateral which is
not otherwise insured against these risks. The principal product offered is
collateral protection insurance for automobile lenders, which is sold to
financial institutions and/or their customers. Commercial banks are UFCC’s
largest customer group for these services. This business also serves savings
and loan institutions, finance companies and credit unions. According to the
Company’s analysis of this market, numerous companies offer these products and
none of them has a dominant market share.

PLG’s principal customers are community banks. Its principal products are
liability insurance for directors and officers and employee dishonesty
insurance. Progressive shares the risk and premium on these coverages with a
small mutual reinsurer controlled by its bank customers and various other
reinsurance entities. The program is sponsored by the American Bankers
Association. Additionally, the Company provides similar coverages for credit
unions and savings and loan institutions. The risk and premium on these
coverages are also reinsured by various reinsurance entities. PLG represented
less than one-half percent of the Company’s total 2000 net premiums written.

The Motor Carrier business unit primarily processes business for Commercial
Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), which are state supervised plans serving the
involuntary markets. The Motor Carrier business unit processes CAIP business
in 26 states. As a CAIP servicing carrier, this business unit processes over
50% of the premiums in the CAIP market and assumes no indemnity risk. It
competes with 2 other providers nationwide.

Competitive Factors

The automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets in which the
Company operates are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally
compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claim
handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage.
Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies,
some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents,
and by smaller regional insurers. While the Company relies heavily on
technology and extensive data gathering and analysis to segment markets and
price according to risk potential, some competitors merely price their coverage
at rates set lower than the Company’s published rates. By avoiding extensive
data gathering and analysis, these competitors incur lower underwriting
expenses. The Company has remained competitive by closely managing expenses
and achieving operating efficiencies, and by refining its risk measurement and
price segmentation skills. In addition, the Company offers prices for a wide
spectrum of risks and seeks to offer a wider array of payment plans, limits of
liability and deductibles than its competitors. Superior customer service,
claim adjusting and strong brand recognition are also important factors in the
Company’s competitive strategy.



Licenses

The Company operates under licenses issued by various insurance
authorities. These licenses may be of perpetual duration or renewable
periodically, provided the holder continues to meet applicable regulatory
requirements. The licenses govern the kind of insurance coverages which may be
written in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued only after the
filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of prescribed
criteria. All licenses which are material to the Company’s business are in
good standing.

Insurance Regulation

The insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision
by insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
licensed to transact business. At least one of the subsidiaries is licensed
and subject to regulation in each of the 50 states and certain U.S.
possessions. The nature and extent of such regulation and supervision varies
from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, an insurance company is subject
to a higher degree of regulation and supervision in its state of domicile. The
Company’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliates are domiciled in the states of
Arizona, California, Colorado, Illinois, Florida, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas,
Washington and Wisconsin. State insurance departments have broad
administrative power relating to licensing insurers and agents, regulating
premium rates and policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing
statutory accounting methods and the form and content of statutory financial
reports, and regulating the type and amount of investments permitted. Rate
regulation varies from “file and use” to prior approval to mandated rates.
Most jurisdictions prohibit rates that are “excessive, inadequate or unfairly
discriminatory.”

Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that
insurance companies maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a
variety of operational standards. Insurance companies are generally required
to file detailed annual and other reports with the insurance department of each
jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments are
authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers’
financial condition and operations to monitor financial stability of the
insurers and to ensure adherence to statutory accounting principles and
compliance with state insurance laws and regulations.

Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance
authorities the power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other
transactions involving insurers and to require periodic disclosure of certain
information. These laws impose prior approval requirements for certain
transactions between regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally
regulate dividend and other distributions, including loans and cash advances,
between regulated insurers and their affiliates. See the “Dividends”
discussion in Item 5(c) for further information on these dividend limitations.

Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed or
required to contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses
resulting from insurer insolvencies. Insurers are also required by many
states, as a condition of doing business in the state, to provide coverage to
certain risks which are not insurable in the voluntary market. These “assigned
risk” plans generally specify the types of insurance and the level of coverage
which must be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as the allowable
premium. Many states also have involuntary market plans which hire a limited
number of servicing carriers to provide insurance to involuntary risks. These
plans, through assessments, pass underwriting and administrative expenses on to
insurers that write voluntary coverages in those states.

Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain
sufficient surplus to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings
to surplus that the regulators will allow is a function of a number of factors,
including the type of business being written, the adequacy of the insurer’s
reserves, the quality of the insurer’s assets, and the identity of the
regulator, as a general rule, the regulators prefer that annual net premiums
written be not more than three times the insurer’s total policyholders’
surplus. Thus, the amount of an insurer’s surplus may, in certain cases, limit
its ability to grow its business.

Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a
market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to
cancel and non-renew policies. Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer
from withdrawing one or more lines of business from the state, except pursuant
to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state
insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption.
Laws and regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject
program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s
ability to exit unprofitable markets.



Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and
developments arise. Some changes may be due to technical factors, such as
changes in investment laws made to recognize new investment vehicles; other
changes result from such general pressures as consumer resistance to price
increases and concerns relating to insurer solvency. In recent years,
legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced which deal with use of
non-public consumer information, insurance rate development, rate determination
and the ability of insurers to cancel or renew insurance policies, reflecting
concerns about consumer privacy, coverage, availability, prices and alleged
discriminatory pricing.

In 1999, Congress passed the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLB”), which
among other things places new requirements on financial institutions,
including insurance companies, designed to protect the “nonpublic personal
information” of consumers. GLB requires each financial institution to provide
to its customers a copy of the institution’s privacy policy at the commencement
and at least annually during the term of the customer relationship. Subject to
certain exceptions, GLB prohibits a financial institution from disclosing to
nonaffiliated third parties any nonpublic personal information pertaining to
its consumers, unless the financial institution first provides to its consumers
a copy of its privacy policy and gives the consumers an opportunity to “opt
out” of such disclosures. Various states have enacted or are expected to enact
privacy legislation or regulations which may impose additional requirements.
The Company is undertaking efforts to comply with such laws and regulations.

In some states, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure in
past years from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce,
freeze or set rates to or at levels that are not necessarily related to
underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back automobile and other
personal lines rates. This kind of activity has adversely affected, and may in
the future adversely affect, the profitability and growth of the subsidiaries’
automobile insurance business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the
subsidiaries’ ability to increase rates to compensate for increases in costs.
Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the subsidiaries’ ability
to price automobile insurance adequately may occur in the future. The impact
of these regulatory changes on the subsidiaries’ businesses cannot be
predicted.

The state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal
scrutiny, and certain state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that
alter and, in many cases, expand state authority to regulate insurance
companies and insurance holding company systems. Further, the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators
are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on
insurance company investments, issues relating to the solvency of insurance
companies and further limitations on the ability of regulated insurers to pay
dividends. The NAIC also developed a risk-based capital (RBC) program to
enable regulators to take appropriate and timely regulatory actions relating to
insurers that show signs of weak or deteriorating financial conditions. RBC is
a series of dynamic surplus-related formulas which contain a variety of factors
that are applied to financial balances based on a degree of certain risks, such
as asset, credit and underwriting risks. In addition, from time to time, the
United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current
condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is
necessary.

The Company files statutory-based financial statements with state insurance
departments in all states in which the Company is licensed. On January 1,
2001, significant changes to the statutory basis of accounting became
effective. The cumulative effect of these changes, known as the Codification
guidance, will be recorded as a direct adjustment to statutory surplus. The
effect of adoption is expected to increase statutory surplus by approximately
$300 million; the Company expects that statutory surplus after adoption will
continue to be in excess of the regulatory risk-based capital requirements.

Statutory Accounting Principles

The Company’s results are reported in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), which differ from amounts reported under
statutory accounting principles (SAP) prescribed by insurance regulatory
authorities. Specifically, under GAAP:

1.

Commissions, premium taxes and other variable costs incurred in
connection with writing new and renewal business are capitalized and
amortized on a pro rata basis over the period in which the related
premiums are earned, rather than expensed as incurred, as required by SAP.



Investments

The Company employs a conservative approach to investment and capital
management intended to ensure that there is sufficient capital to support all
the insurance premium that can be profitably written. The Company’s portfolio
is invested primarily in short-term and intermediate-term, investment-grade
fixed-income securities. The Company’s investment portfolio, at market value,
was $6,983.3 million at December 31, 2000, compared to $6,427.7 million at
December 31, 1999. Investment income is affected by shifts in the types of
investments in the portfolio, changes in interest rates and other factors.
Investment income, including net realized gains on security sales, before
expenses and taxes, was $402.1 million in 2000, compared to $387.9 million in
1999 and $306.2 million in 1998. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on pages 42 through 46
of the
Company’s Annual Report.

Employees

The number of employees, excluding temporary employees, at December 31, 2000,
was 19,490.

Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (LAE) of the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries. Total loss reserves are established at a level that is intended
to represent the middle of the reasonable range of loss reserve estimates. The
liabilities for losses and LAE are determined using actuarial and statistical
procedures and represent undiscounted estimates of the ultimate net cost of all
unpaid losses and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year. These
estimates are subject to the effect of future trends on claim settlement.
These estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops
and new information becomes known. Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in
the current results of operations.

The accompanying tables present an analysis of property-casualty losses and
LAE. The following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
estimated liability balances for 2000, 1999 and 1998 on a GAAP basis.



RECONCILIATION OF NET RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

The reconciliation above shows $75.8 million of adverse development, which
emerged during 2000, in the 2000 liability and a positive emergence of $29.8
million shown in the 1999 liability, based on information known as of December
31, 2000 and December 31, 1999, respectively. Prior to 2000, the Company’s
reserves developed conservatively. Beginning in 1999 and continuing throughout
2000, the Company experienced an increase in severity trends which led to
adverse development on prior accident years in 2000, as compared to 1999 and
1998.

The anticipated effect of inflation is explicitly considered when estimating
liabilities for losses and LAE. While anticipated increases due to inflation
are considered in estimating the ultimate claim costs, the increase in average
severities of claims is caused by a number of factors that vary with the
individual type of policy written. Future average severities are projected
based on historical trends adjusted for anticipated changes in underwriting
standards, inflation, policy provisions and general economic trends. These
anticipated trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified
if necessary.

The Company has not entered into any loss reserve transfers or similar
transactions having a material effect on earnings or reserves.



ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT

(millions)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

¹ Represents loss and LAE reserves net of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid
losses at the balance sheet date.

² Cumulative redundancy/(deficiency) ÷ liability for unpaid losses and LAE.

³ In 1994, based on a review of its total loss reserves, the Company eliminated
its $71.0 million “supplemental reserve.”

The above table presents the development of balance sheet liabilities for 1990
through 1999. The top line of the table shows the estimated liability for
unpaid losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
indicated years for the property-casualty insurance subsidiaries only. This
liability represents the estimated amount of losses and LAE for claims that are
unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but
not reported.

The upper section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to
the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. The
lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously
recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year.
The estimate is increased or decreased as more information about the claims
becomes known for individual years. For example, as of December 31, 2000 the
companies had paid $662.8 million of the currently estimated $690.3 million of
losses and LAE that had been incurred through the end of 1991; thus an
estimated $27.5 million of losses incurred through 1991 remain unpaid as of the
current financial statement date.



The “Cumulative Redundancy/(Deficiency)” represents the aggregate change in the
estimates over all prior years. For example, the 1990 liability has developed
conservatively by $125.7 million over ten years. That amount has been
reflected in income over the ten years and did not have a significant effect on
the income of any one year. The effects on income during the past three years
due to changes in estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE is shown in
the reconciliation table on page 8 as the “prior years” contribution to
incurred losses and LAE.

In evaluating this information, note that each “cumulative
redundancy/(deficiency)” amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts
during the current year for prior periods. For example, the amount of the
development related to losses settled in 1993, but incurred in 1990, will be
included in the “cumulative redundancy/deficiency” amount for years 1990, 1991
and 1992. Conditions and trends that have affected development of the
liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it
generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future development based on this
table.

The Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Development table on page 9
is constructed from Schedule P, Part-1, from the 1991 through 2000 Consolidated
Annual Statements, as filed with the state insurance departments, and Schedules
O and P filed for years prior to 1991. This development table differs from the
development displayed in Schedule P, Part-2 due to the fact Schedule P, Part-2
excludes unallocated loss adjustment expenses and reflects the change in the
method of accounting for salvage and subrogation for 1994 and prior.

(d) Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations

The Company operates throughout the United States. The Company ceased writing new business in Canada in 1999.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s corporate office complex is located on a 42-acre parcel in
Mayfield Village, Ohio. This complex contains approximately 624,800 square
feet and is owned by a subsidiary.

The Company also owns seven other buildings in suburbs adjoining the corporate
office complex (excluding the buildings described in the following paragraph),
four buildings in Tampa, Florida, and a building in each of the following
cities: Tempe, Arizona; Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; Albany, New York; Tigard,
Oregon; Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania; and Austin, Texas. Four of these
buildings are partially leased to non-affiliates. In total, these buildings
contain approximately 1,450,000 square feet of office, warehouse and training
facility space and are owned by subsidiaries of the Company. These locations
are occupied by the Company’s business units or other operations and are not
segregated by industry segment. In addition, the Company owns two buildings in
Tampa, Florida that are currently for sale, which are partially leased to
non-affiliates.

The Company has constructed a corporate office complex in Mayfield Village,
Ohio, near the site of its corporate headquarters, containing a total of
approximately 732,300 square feet, and a parking garage, at an estimated cost
of $129.0 million. As of December 31, 2000, $119.1 million has been paid. The
first building was completed in May 1999. The next two buildings were
completed in the first quarter of 2000. The parking garage and fourth building
were completed in the fourth quarter of 2000. The fifth building was completed
in the first quarter of 2001. The construction project is being funded through
operating cash flows.

The Company leases approximately 435,800 square feet of office and warehouse
space at various locations throughout the United States for its other business
units and staff functions. In addition, the Company leases 395 claim offices,
consisting of approximately 1,975,000 square feet, at various locations
throughout the United States. These leases are generally short-term to
medium-term leases of standard commercial office space.

As the Company continues to grow, it expects that it will need additional space
and is actively engaged in seeking out additional locations to meet its current
and anticipated needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Incorporated by reference from Note 7, Litigation, on page 37 of the Company’s
Annual Report.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference from information with respect to executive officers
of The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries set forth in Item 10 in
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(a) Market Information

The Company’s Common Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol PGR. The high and low prices set forth below are as reported on the
consolidated transaction reporting system.

The closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on February 28, 2001 was
$99.00.

(b) Holders

There were 3,733 shareholders of record on February 28, 2001.

(c) Dividends

Statutory policyholders’ surplus was $2,177.0 million and $2,258.9 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Generally, under state insurance
laws, the net admitted assets of insurance subsidiaries available for transfer
to a corporate parent are limited to those net admitted assets, as determined
in accordance with SAP, which exceed minimum statutory capital requirements.
At December 31, 2000, $285.0 million of consolidated statutory policyholders’
surplus represents net admitted assets of the insurance subsidiaries that are
required to meet minimum statutory surplus requirements in the subsidiaries’
states of domicile. Furthermore, state insurance laws limit the amount that
can be paid as a dividend or other distribution in any given year without prior
regulatory approval and adequate policyholders’ surplus must be maintained to
support premiums written. Based on the dividend laws currently in effect, the
insurance subsidiaries may pay aggregate dividends to the corporate parent of
$171.0 million in 2001 out of statutory policyholders’ surplus, without prior
approval from regulatory authorities.

(d) Repurchases

In April 1996, the Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of up to 6,000,000
Common Shares. The Company may purchase its shares from time to time,
in the open market or otherwise, when opportunities exist to buy at attractive
prices or for purposes which are otherwise in the best interest of the Company.
There have been 751,992 shares repurchased under this authorization
as of December 31, 2000.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(millions — except per share amounts)

¹ Presented on a diluted basis. In 1997, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 128 “Earnings Per Share,” and, as a
result, restated prior periods per share amounts, if applicable.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Incorporated by reference from Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 42 through 46 of the
Company’s 2000 Annual Report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated
by reference from the “Investments” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7
above. Additional information is incorporated by reference from the Company’s
Annual Report on pages 52 and 53.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, along with the related
notes, supplementary data and report of independent accountants, are
incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report,
pages 26 through 41
and pages 47 through 55.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to all of the directors and the individuals who have been
nominated for election as directors at the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
of the Registrant, is incorporated herein by reference from the section
entitled “Election of Directors” in the Proxy Statement, pages 2 through 4.

Information relating to executive officers of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries follows. Unless otherwise indicated, the executive officer has
held the position(s) indicated for at least the last five years.



Offices Held and

Name

Age

Last Five Years' Business Experience

Raymond M. Voelker


Chief Information Officer since April 2000; Information Technology Executive — Claims and
Infrastructure Technologies from December 1999 to March 2000; Claims Technology Executive from
January 1999 to November 1999; Information Systems Executive — Call Center Technology from
September 1997 to December 1998; Information Systems Executive — Operations prior to September

Richard H. Watts


Direct Business Leader since January 2000; General Manager of Northeast Ohio prior to January 2000

Robert T. Williams


Agent Business Leader since April 2000; Chief Pricing/Product Officer from January 1999 to March
2000; Product Process Leader during 1998; General Manager of New York Business Unit from March
1996 to December 1997; New York Division President prior to April 1996; Manager of Special Lines
prior to March 1997

Update on Former Executive Officer.

Effective
March 19, 2001, Charles B. Chokel, the Company's former
Executive Vice-President and Chief Investments and Capital Officer,
accepted a position with another company.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.

The February 4, 1999,
purchase of 500 shares by James E. Bennett III was reported in a Form 4 filed
on August 2, 2000.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Executive Compensation,” pages 11 through 23.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND

MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,” pages 8
through 10.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy statement entitled
“Election of Directors — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” pages
5 and 6.



PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON

FORM 8-K.





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

March 29, 2001

BY: /s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Glenn M. Renwick

Director, President

and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



*

CHARLES E. JARRETT, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document
on behalf of the persons indicated above pursuant to a power of attorney
duly executed by such persons.

By /s/ Charles E. Jarrett

March 29, 2001

Charles
E. Jarrett

Attorney-in-fact



ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 14(d)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 24, 2001 appearing in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of
The Progressive Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the financial statement schedules listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

January 24, 2001



CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,

The Progressive Corporation:

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on:

of The Progressive Corporation of our report dated January 24, 2001 relating to
the financial statements, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to
the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 24, 2001 relating to
the financial statement schedules, which appears in this Form 10-K.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

March 28, 2001



SCHEDULE I — SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS — OTHER

THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

The Company did not have any securities of one issuer with an aggregate cost or
market value exceeding 10% of total shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2000.



SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying condensed financial statements of The Progressive Corporation
(the “Registrant”) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto of The Progressive Corporation and
subsidiaries included in the Registrant’s 2000 Annual Report.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS — For the purpose of the Statements of Cash Flows,
cash includes only bank demand deposits. The Registrant paid income taxes of
$13.8 million in 2000, and $116.5 million and $235.9 million in 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Total interest paid was $81.1 million for 2000 and $72.4 million
for 1999 and $63.8 million in 1998.

DEBT — Debt at December 31 consisted of:

Debt includes amounts the Registrant has borrowed and contributed to the
capital of its insurance subsidiaries or borrowed for other long-term purposes.
Market values are obtained from publicly quoted sources.

All debt is noncallable, except for the 6 5/8% Senior Notes which may be
redeemed all or in part at any time, subject to a “make whole” provision;
interest is payable semiannually.

In May 1990, the Registrant entered into a revolving credit arrangement with
National City Bank, which is reviewed by the bank annually. Under this
agreement, the Registrant has the right to borrow up to $10.0 million. By
selecting from available credit options, the Registrant may elect to pay
interest at rates related to the London interbank offered rate, the bank’s base
rate or at a money market rate. A commitment fee is payable on any unused
portion of the committed amount at the rate of .125% per annum. During 2000,
the Company borrowed $2.5 million for one day at an average interest rate of
7%. The Registrant had no borrowings under this arrangement at December 31,
2000 and 1999.

Aggregate principal payments on debt outstanding at December 31, 2000 are $0
for 2001, 2002, and 2003, $200.0 for 2004 and $0 for 2005, and $550.0 million
thereafter.



SCHEDULE II — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INCOME TAXES —The Registrant files a consolidated Federal income tax return
with all eligible subsidiaries. The Federal income taxes in the accompanying
Condensed Balance Sheets represent amounts recoverable from the Internal
Revenue Service by the Registrant as agent for the consolidated tax group. The
Registrant and its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement,
a method of allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to
the subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Intercompany
Receivable or Payable from Subsidiaries in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES —The Registrant, through its
investment in consolidated subsidiaries, recognizes the changes in unrealized
gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities of the subsidiaries. These
amounts were:

(millions)




Unrealized gains (losses):

Available-for-sale: fixed maturities

$

160.4

$

(165.6

)

$

(7.2

)

equity securities

(48.0

)

(14.1

)

(6.9

)

Deferred income taxes

(39.5

)

63.0

5.1

$

72.9

$

(116.7

)

$

(9.0

)

OTHER MATTERS —The information relating to incentive compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans, “Incentive
Compensation Plans” on pages 36 and 37 of the Registrant’s 2000 Annual Report.

RECLASSIFICATIONS —Certain amounts in the financial statements
for prior periods were classified to conform with the 2000
presentation.



SCHEDULE III — SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

(1)

The Company does not allocate assets or investment income to operating
segments.

(2)

Excluding investment expenses of $9.1 million in 2000, $9.5 million in 1999
and $7.4 million in 1998.



SCHEDULE IV — REINSURANCE

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)



SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY —CASUALTY INSURANCE

OPERATIONS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Losses and Loss Adjustment

Paid Losses and

Expenses Incurred Related to

Loss Adjustment

Expenses

Year Ended

Current Year

Prior Years

December 31, 2000

$

5,203.6

$

75.8

$

4,694.3

December 31, 1999

$

4,286.2

$

(29.8

)

$

4,002.0

December 31, 1998

$

3,560.5

$

(184.2

)

$

3,298.0

Pursuant to Rule 12-18 of Regulation S-X. See Schedule III, page 30, for the
additional information required in Schedule VI.



EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT INDEX



EXHIBIT INDEX

No other exhibits are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 601 of
Regulation S-K.

37