
10-K405
PROGRESSIVE CORP 10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[ x ]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [Fee Required]
For the fiscal year ended     December 31, 1995

                                       or

[  ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [No Fee Required]

For the transition period from ______________________ to ______________________

Commission file number         1-9518

                           THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Ohio                                           34-0963169
      (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

      6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio              44143
      (Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

                                 (216) 461-5000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange on
         Title of each class                              which registered

Common Shares, $1.00 Par Value                          New York Stock Exchange

9 3/8% Serial Preferred Shares, Series A (Cumulative,
  Liquidation Preference $25.00 per share)              New York Stock Exchange


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                        [ x ]  Yes   [   ]  No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ x ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at February 9, 1996: $2,903,056,560.00

The number of the registrant's Common Shares, $1.00 par value, outstanding as of
February 29, 1996: 72,179,817

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1995 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV hereof.
Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1996, for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 1996, are incorporated by
reference in Part III hereof.



INTRODUCTION

The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries' (collectively, the "Company") 1995
Annual Report to Shareholders (the "Annual Report") contains portions of the
information required to be included in this Form 10-K, which are incorporated
herein by reference. Cross references to relevant sections of the Annual Report
are included under the appropriate items of this Form 10-K.

Portions of the information included in The Progressive Corporation's Proxy
Statement dated March 14, 1996, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on April 26, 1996 (the "Proxy Statement") have also been incorporated by
reference herein and are identified under the appropriate items in this Form
10-K.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         (a)      General Development of Business

The Progressive Corporation, an insurance holding company formed in 1965, has 64
operating subsidiaries and one mutual insurance company affiliate. The
Progressive Corporation's insurance subsidiaries and its affiliate
(collectively, the "Insurance Group") provide personal automobile insurance and
other specialty property-casualty insurance and related services throughout the
United States and in Canada. The Company's property-casualty insurance products
protect its customers against collision and physical damage to their motor
vehicles and liability to others for personal injury or property damage arising
out of the use of those vehicles.

Of the approximately 250 United States insurance company groups writing private
passenger auto insurance, the Company estimates that it ranks seventh in size
for 1995. Except as otherwise noted, all industry data and Progressive's market
share or ranking in the industry were derived either directly from data reported
by A.M. Best Company Inc. ("A.M. Best") or were estimated using A.M. Best data
as the primary source. For 1995, the estimated industry premiums written, which
include personal auto insurance in the United States and Ontario, Canada, as
well as insurance for commercial vehicles, were $122 billion, and Progressive's
share of this market was approximately 2.3%.

         (b)      Financial Information About Industry Segments

                  Incorporated by reference from Note 11, Segment Information,
                  on page 46 of the Company's Annual Report.

         (c)      Narrative Description of Business

INSURANCE SEGMENT

The Insurance Group offers a number of personal and commercial property-casualty
insurance products primarily related to motor vehicles. Net premiums written
were $2,912.8 million in 1995, compared to $2,457.2 million and $1,819.2 million
in 1994 and 1993, respectively. The underwriting profit margin was 5.7% in 1995,
compared to 8.3% (excluding the elimination of the "supplemental reserve." See
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations beginning on page 14 for further discussion) in 1994 and 10.7% in
1993, respectively.

The Insurance Group's core business writes insurance for private passenger
automobiles, recreational vehicles and small fleets of commercial vehicles. This
business frequently has more than one program in a single state, with each
targeted to a specific market segment. The core business accounted for 97% of
the Company's 1995 total net premiums written. 



The bulk of the Insurance Group's core business consists of nonstandard
automobile insurance products for people cancelled or rejected by other
insurers. The size of the nonstandard automobile insurance market changes with
the insurance environment. Volume potential is influenced by the actions of
direct competitors, writers of standard and preferred automobile insurance and
state-mandated involuntary plans. The total direct premiums written in the
nonstandard automobile insurance market were about $21 billion in 1995, $20
billion in 1994 and $18 billion in 1993. Approximately 280 nonstandard insurance
companies, many of which are part of an affiliated group, wrote an estimated $17
billion of nonstandard auto premiums in 1995. In 1994, the Insurance Group
ranked second in direct premiums written in this market and near the top in
underwriting performance. Although final data has not been published, the
Company estimates that its 1995 ranking and underwriting performance will be
consistent with 1994.

The core business also writes standard and preferred automobile risks in many
states. These products accounted for between 5% and 10% of the Company's total
private passenger auto premiums in 1995. The strategy is to build towards
becoming a low-cost provider of a full line of auto insurance and related
services, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers. The
Insurance Group's goal is to compete successfully in the standard and preferred
market, which comprises 80% of the personal automobile insurance market.

The Insurance Group's principal specialty personal lines product is motorcycle
insurance. Other products offered include recreational vehicle, mobile home and
boat insurance. The Insurance Group's competitors are specialty companies and
large multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not
available, based on the Company's analysis of this market, the Company believes
that it is a significant participant in the specialty personal lines market.

Nonstandard commercial vehicle insurance covers commercial vehicle risks that
are rejected or cancelled by other insurance companies. Based on the Company's
analysis of this market, approximately 40 companies compete for this business on
a nationwide basis. State assigned risk plans also provide this coverage.

The core business insurance products are marketed by thirteen divisions
headquartered in or near the markets served: the Florida and Southeast divisions
in Tampa, Florida; the Northeast, New York, Central States, Ohio, Commercial
Vehicle and National Accounts divisions in Cleveland, Ohio; the South Central
division in Austin, Texas; the Mountain division in Colorado Springs, Colorado;
the Mid-Atlantic division in Richmond, Virginia; the Canada division in Ontario,
Canada; and the West division in Sacramento, California. Each division is
responsible for its own marketing, sales, processing and claims.

In an effort to better manage growth and improve customer service, the Company  
is moving profit and growth responsibility for high potential communities from
state-focused division presidents to community managers. In 1995, eleven
metropolitan areas were served by community managers.

In 1995, over 90% of the net premiums written by the core business were written
through a network of more than 30,000 independent insurance agents located
throughout the United States and in Canada. Subject to compliance with certain
Company-mandated procedures, these independent insurance agents have the
authority to bind the Company to specified insurance coverages within prescribed
underwriting guidelines. These guidelines prescribe the kinds and amounts of
coverage that may be written and the premium rates that may be charged for
specified categories of risk. The agents do not have authority on behalf of the
Company to settle or adjust claims, establish underwriting guidelines, develop
rates or enter into other transactions or commitments. The Company also markets
its products through intermediaries such as employers, other insurance companies
and national brokerage agencies, and direct to customers through employed sales
people and owned insurance agencies. The core business currently markets
personal automobile insurance directly to the public by direct mail, television
and radio advertising, primarily throughout Florida and in Ohio and Texas.




The Insurance Group's diversified businesses - the United Financial Casualty
Company (UFCC), Professional Liability Group (PLG) and Motor Carrier division -
accounted for 3% of total volume in 1995. These businesses, which are organized
by customer group, are headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. The choice of
distribution channel is driven by each customer group's buying preference and
service needs. Distribution channels include financial institutions and vehicle
dealers. Distribution arrangements are individually negotiated between such
intermediaries and the Company and are tailored to the specific needs of the
customer group and the nature of the related financial or purchase transactions.
The diversified businesses also market their products directly to their
customers through company-employed sales forces.

UFCC provides physical damage insurance and related tracking services to protect
the commercial or retail lender's interest in collateral which is not otherwise
insured against these risks. The principal product is collateral protection for
automobile lenders, which is sold to financial institutions and/or their
customers. Commercial banks are UFCC's largest customer group for these
services. This business also serves savings and loans, finance companies and
credit unions. According to the Company's analysis of this market, numerous
companies offer these products and none of them has a dominant market share.

PLG's principal customers are community banks. Its principal products are
liability insurance for directors and officers and employee dishonesty
insurance. Progressive shares the risk and premium on these coverages with a
small mutual reinsurer controlled by its bank customers. The program is
sponsored by the American Bankers Association. This program represented less
than one half of one percent of the Company's total 1995 net premiums written.

The Motor Carrier division primarily manages involuntary Commercial Auto
Insurance Procedures. See Service Operations on page 7 for further discussion.


COMPETITIVE FACTORS

The automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets in which the
Company operates are highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally
compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claim
handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage.
Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national companies,
some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents,
and by smaller regional insurers. While the Company relies heavily on technology
and extensive data gathering and analysis to segment and price markets according
to risk potential, some competitors merely price their coverage at rates set
lower than the Company's published rates. By avoiding extensive data gathering
and analysis, these competitors incur lower underwriting costs. The Company has
remained competitive by closely managing expenses and achieving operating
efficiencies, and by refining its risk measurement and price segmentation
skills. In addition, the Company offers prices for a wide spectrum of risks and
seeks to offer a wider array of payment plans, limits of liability and
deductibles than its competitors. Superior customer service and claim adjustment
are also important factors in the Company's competitive strategy.

LICENSES

The Insurance Group operates under licenses issued by various state or
provincial insurance authorities. Such licenses may be of perpetual duration or
renewable periodically, provided the holder continues to meet applicable
regulatory requirements. The licenses govern the kind of insurance coverages
which may be written in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued
only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of
prescribed criteria. All licenses which are material to the Company's business
are in good standing.




INSURANCE REGULATION

The insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision
by insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
licensed to transact business. At least one of the subsidiaries is licensed and
subject to regulation in each of the 50 states and certain U.S. possessions, in
one Canadian province and by Canadian federal authorities. The nature and extent
of such regulation and supervision varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Generally, an insurance company is subject to a higher degree of regulation and
supervision in its state of domicile. The Company's principal insurance
subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Florida, Mississippi, Missouri, New
York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin. State insurance
departments have broad administrative power relating to licensing insurers and
agents, regulating premium rates and policy forms, establishing reserve
requirements, prescribing accounting methods and the form and content of
statutory financial reports and regulating the type and amount of investments
permitted. Rate regulation varies from "file and use" to prior approval to
mandated rates. Most jurisdictions prohibit rates that are "excessive,
inadequate or unfairly discriminatory."

Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility to ensure that
insurance companies maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a
variety of operational standards. Insurance companies are generally required to
file detailed annual and other reports with the insurance department of each
jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments are
authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers'
financial condition, adherence to statutory accounting principles and compliance
with state insurance laws and regulations.

Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance
authorities the power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other
transactions involving insurers and to require periodic disclosure of certain
information. These laws impose prior approval requirements for certain
transactions between regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally
regulate dividend and other distributions, including loans and cash advances,
between regulated insurers and their affiliates. See the "Dividends" discussion
in Item 5(c) for further information on such dividend limitations.

Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed, or
required to contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses
resulting from insurer insolvencies. Insurers are also required by many states
to provide coverage to certain risks as a condition of doing business in the
state. Such programs generally specify the types of insurance and the level of
coverage which must be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as the
allowable premium.

Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain
sufficient surplus to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings to
surplus that the regulators will allow is a function of a number of factors,
including the type of business being written, the adequacy of the insurer's
reserves, the quality of the insurer's assets, and the identity of the
regulator, as a general rule, the regulators prefer that annual net written
premium be not more than three times the insurer's total policyholders' surplus.
Thus, the amount of an insurer's surplus may, in certain cases, limit its
ability to grow its business.

Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer's ability to exit a
market. For example, certain states limit an automobile insurer's ability to
cancel and non-renew policies. Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer
from withdrawing one or more lines of business from the state, except pursuant
to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state
insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption.
Laws and regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject
program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer's
ability to exit unprofitable markets.

Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and
developments arise. Some changes may be due to technical factors, such as
changes in investment laws made to recognize new investment vehicles; other
changes result from such general pressures as consumer resistance to price
increases and concerns relating to insurer solvency. In recent years,
legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced which deal with insurance
rate development, rate determination and the ability of insurers to cancel or
renew insurance policies, reflecting concerns about availability, prices and
alleged discriminatory pricing. 




In some states, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure in
recent years from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce,
freeze or set rates to or at levels that are not necessarily related to
underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back automobile and other
personal lines rates. This kind of activity has adversely affected, and may in
the future adversely affect, the profitability and growth of the subsidiaries'
automobile insurance business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the
subsidiaries' ability to increase rates to compensate for increases in costs.
Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the subsidiaries' ability
to adequately price automobile insurance may occur in the future. The impact of
these regulatory changes on the subsidiaries' businesses cannot be predicted.

The state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal
scrutiny, and certain state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that
alter and, in many cases, expand state authority to regulate insurance companies
and insurance holding company systems. Further, the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance regulators are re-examining
existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on insurance company
investments, issues relating to the solvency of insurance companies and further
limitations on the ability of regulated insurers to pay dividends. The NAIC also
developed a risk-based capital (RBC) program to enable regulators to take
appropriate and timely regulatory actions relating to insurers that show signs
of weak or deteriorating financial conditions. RBC is a series of dynamic
surplus-related formulas which contain a variety of factors that are applied to
financial balances based on a degree of certain risks, such as asset, credit and
underwriting risks. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress
and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance
industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary.

STATUTORY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

The Insurance Group's results are reported in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), which differ from amounts reported under statutory
accounting principles (SAP) prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities.
Specifically, under GAAP:

1.       Commissions, premium taxes and other costs incurred in connection with
         writing new and renewal business are capitalized and amortized on a pro
         rata basis over the period in which the related premiums are earned,
         rather than expensed as incurred, as required by SAP.

2.       Certain assets are included in the consolidated balance sheets, which
         for SAP are charged directly against statutory surplus. These assets
         consist primarily of premium receivables over 90 days, furniture and
         equipment and prepaid expenses.

3.       Amounts related to ceded reinsurance are shown gross as prepaid
         reinsurance premiums and reinsurance recoverables, rather than netted
         against unearned premium reserves and loss and loss adjustment expense
         reserves, respectively, as required by SAP.

4.       Fixed maturities securities, which are classified as
         available-for-sale, are reported at market values, rather than at
         amortized cost, or the lower of amortized cost or market depending on
         the specific type of security as required by SAP. Equity securities are
         reported at quoted market values which may differ from the NAIC market
         values as required by SAP.

The differing treatment of income and expense items results in a corresponding
difference in Federal income tax expense.

During 1994, the insurance subsidiaries began to reduce loss reserves for
anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries. Previously, salvage and
subrogation was not reflected in the statutory financial statements until
actually recovered.






SERVICE OPERATIONS

The service operations of the diversified businesses consist primarily of
processing business for involuntary plans and providing claim services to fleet
owners and other insurance companies. Service revenues were $38.9 million in
1995, compared to $41.9 million in 1994 and $43.7 million in 1993. Pretax
operating profits were $8.7 million in 1995, compared to $10.0 million and $6.8
million in 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The Motor Carrier division currently processes business for the Commercial Auto
Insurance Procedures (CAIP) in 29 states, the Florida Joint Underwriters
Association (FAJUA) and the New York Public Automobile Pool (NYPAP), which are
all part of the involuntary residual market. As a CAIP servicing carrier, the
division processes about one third of the premiums in the involuntary residual
market, without assuming the indemnity risk. It competes with approximately 17
other providers nationwide. In 1995, the division began processing business for
the FAJUA and competes with five other carriers in the state. Beginning in March
1996, the Company began processing business for the NYPAP and was granted a
one-third share of new business with a three-year phase-in period.

INVESTMENTS

The Company's approach to investing is consistent with its need to maintain
capital adequate to support the insurance premiums written and its commitment to
risk adverse investment policies. The Company's portfolio is invested primarily
in short-term and intermediate-term, investment-grade fixed-income securities.
The Company's investment portfolio, at market value, was $3,768.0 million at
December 31, 1995, compared to $3,186.3 million at December 31, 1994. Investment
income is affected by shifts in the types of investments in the portfolio,
changes in interest rates and other factors. Investment income, including net
realized gains on security sales, before expenses and taxes, was $245.8 million
in 1995, compared to $182.3 million in 1994 and $242.4 million in 1993. See
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, beginning on page 14 herein for additional discussion.

EMPLOYEES

The number of employees, excluding temporary employees, at December 31, 1995,
was 8,025.

LIABILITY FOR PROPERTY-CASUALTY LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") of the Company's insurance
subsidiaries. Total loss reserves are established at a level that is intended to
represent the midpoint of the reasonable range of loss reserves. The liabilities
for losses and LAE are determined using actuarial and statistical procedures and
represent undiscounted estimates of the ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses
and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year. These estimates are subject
to the effect of future trends on claim settlement. These estimates are
continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops and new information
becomes known. Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in the current results of
operations.

During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves, the
Company eliminated its $71.0 million "supplemental reserve." See Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
beginning on page 14 for further discussion. The elimination of the supplemental
reserve is reflected in the Reconciliation of Net Reserves for Losses and Loss
Adjustment Expenses table on page 8 and the Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment
Expenses Development table on page 9.

The accompanying tables present an analysis of property-casualty losses and LAE.
The following table: (1) provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending
estimated liability balances for 1995, 1994 and 1993, and (2) shows the
difference between the estimated liability in accordance with GAAP and that
reported in accordance with SAP.





RECONCILIATION OF NET RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES





(1)In 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) 113, "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and
Long-Duration Contracts."

(2)During 1994, the Company changed its method of accounting for salvage and
subrogation. See Statutory Accounting Principles on page 6 for further
discussion.

The reconciliation above shows a $56.6 million redundancy, which emerged during
1995, in the 1995 liability and a $142.5 million redundancy in the 1994
liability, based on information known as of December 31, 1995 and December 31,
1994, respectively. In addition, the incurred losses in the table above are on a
SAP basis, which differ slightly from the GAAP incurred losses due to the
reclassification of losses on the Company's self-insurance program to expenses
for GAAP reporting.

The anticipated effect of inflation is explicitly considered when estimating
liabilities for losses and LAE. While anticipated increases due to inflation are
considered in estimating the ultimate claim costs, the increase in average
severities of claims is caused by a number of factors that vary with the
individual type of policy written. Future average severities are projected based
on historical trends adjusted for anticipated changes in underwriting standards,
inflation, policy provisions and general economic trends. These anticipated
trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified if necessary.

The Company has not entered into any loss reserve transfers or similar
transactions having a material effect on earnings or reserves.




ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT
(millions)






(1)Cumulative redundancy/(deficiency) liability for unpaid losses and LAE.

The above table presents the development of balance sheet liabilities for 1985
through 1994. The top line of the table shows the estimated liability for unpaid
losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated
years for the property-casualty insurance subsidiaries only. Similar reserves
for the life insurance subsidiary, which are immaterial, are excluded. This
liability represents the estimated amount of losses and LAE for claims arising
in all prior years that are unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses
that had been incurred but not reported.




The upper section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to
the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. The
lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously
recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year.
The estimate is increased or decreased as more information becomes known about
the frequency and severity of claims for individual years. For example, as of
December 31, 1995 the companies had paid $263.2 million of the currently
estimated $286.7 million of losses and LAE that had been incurred through the
end of 1986; thus an estimated $23.5 million of losses incurred through 1986
remain unpaid as of the current financial statement date.

The "Cumulative Redundancy (Deficiency)" represents the aggregate change in the
estimates over all prior years. For example, the 1985 liability has developed a
$1.0 million deficiency over ten years. That amount has been reflected in income
over the ten years and did not have a significant effect on the income of any
one year. The effects on income during the past three years due to changes in
estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE is shown in the reconciliation
table on page 8 as the "prior years" provision for incurred losses and LAE.

In evaluating this information, note that each cumulative redundancy
(deficiency) amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts during the
current year for prior periods. For example, the amount of the redundancy
related to losses settled in 1988, but incurred in 1985, will be included in the
cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for years 1985, 1986 and 1987.
Conditions and trends that have affected development of the liability in the
past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be
appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this
table.

The Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Development table on page 9 is
constructed from Schedule P, Part-1, from the 1990 through 1995 Consolidated
Annual Statements, as filed with the state insurance departments, and Schedules
O and P filed for years prior to 1989. This development table differs from the
development displayed in Schedule P, Part-2 due to the fact Schedule P, Part-2
excludes unallocated loss adjustment expenses and reflects the change in the
method of accounting for salvage and subrogation for 1994 and prior.

     (d)      Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations

The Company operates throughout the United States and in Canada. The amount of
Canadian revenues and assets are approximately two percent of the Company's
consolidated revenues and assets. The amount of operating income (loss)
generated by its Canadian operations is immaterial with respect to the Company's
consolidated operating income.





ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES

OWNED PROPERTIES

In 1994, the Company completed its new corporate office complex on a 42-acre
parcel in Mayfield Village, Ohio, owned by a subsidiary. The new facility
consists of 517,800 square feet of space and replaces office space held under
leases in a number of locations in the Cleveland, Ohio area. The project's cost
of $75.5 million was funded through operating cash flows. The Company's central
data processing facility occupies a modern, three-story brick, building
containing approximately 107,000 square feet of office space, on this same
parcel.

The Company owns two adjacent two-story brick buildings in Highland Heights,
Ohio, which contain an aggregate of 233,000 square feet of office and warehouse
space. The property was purchased in August 1994 for approximately $6.7 million.
The buildings are currently being renovated to accommodate the Company's
operations.

The Company owns a modern three-story building containing approximately 96,700
square feet of office space in Mayfield Heights, Ohio. The property was
purchased in December 1993 for approximately $6.5 million, and is occupied by
the Company's Northeast Division.

The Company's Florida Division is headquartered in a modern, two-story building
containing approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Tampa, Florida.
The property was financed with, and is owned subject to a mortgage granted in
connection with, industrial development revenue bonds bearing interest equal to
79.45% of a specified prime commercial lending rate. The remaining annual
principal amounts payable are $368,000 in 1996 and 1997 and $92,000 in 1998.

The Company owns a modern 26,400 square foot building in Tampa, Florida, used
for post-processing document assembly and mailing. The property was purchased on
March 31, 1995, for approximately $1.4 million.

The Company owns a modern, two-story building containing approximately 39,000
square feet of office space in Tampa, Florida; this building is leased to a
non-affiliated tenant.

The Company also owns a one-story brick building containing approximately 92,000
square feet of training facilities, office and warehouse space in Mayfield
Village, Ohio.

LEASED PROPERTIES

The Company leases approximately 590,000 square feet of modern office space at
various locations throughout the United States for its other business units and
staff functions. In addition, the Company leases approximately 288 processing
and claim offices at various locations throughout the United States. Two offices
are leased in Canada. These leases are generally short-term to medium-term
leases of standard commercial office space.

ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Incorporated by reference from Note 4, Litigation, on page 41 of the Company's
Annual Report.

ITEM 4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference from information with respect to executive officers of
The Progressive Corporation and its subsidiaries set forth in Item 10 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.




PART II

ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
        AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        (a)      Market Information

The Company's Common Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol PGR. The high and low prices set forth below are as reported on the
consolidated transaction reporting system.






The closing price of the Company's Common Shares on February 29, 1996 was
$46.00.

        (b)      Holders

There were 4,770 shareholders of record on February 29, 1996.

        (c)      Dividends

Statutory policyholders' surplus was $1,055.1 million and $945.1 million at
December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Generally, under state insurance laws,
the net admitted assets of insurance subsidiaries available for transfer to a
corporate parent are limited to those net admitted assets, as determined in
accordance with SAP, which exceed minimum statutory capital requirements. At
December 31, 1995, $121.5 million of statutory policyholders' surplus represents
net admitted assets of the insurance subsidiaries that are required to meet
minimum statutory surplus requirements in the subsidiaries' states of domicile.
Furthermore, state insurance laws limit the amount that can be paid as a
dividend or other distribution in any given year without prior regulatory
approval and adequate policyholders' surplus must be maintained to support
premiums written. Based on the dividend laws currently in effect, the insurance
subsidiaries may pay aggregate dividends of $179.2 million in 1996 out of
statutory policyholders' surplus, without prior approval by regulatory
authorities.




ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(millions - except per share  amounts)






All per share amounts have been adjusted for the December 8, 1992 3-for-1 stock
split.

(1)Total revenues for 1992 include $106.0 million ($70.0 million after taxes),
or $.97 per share, for the Company's California Proposition 103 reserve
reduction.

(2)During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves,
the Company eliminated its $71.0 million "supplemental reserve" ($46.2 million
after tax), resulting in a one-time increase in earnings of $.62 per share. See
Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further
discussion.

(3)Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted SFAS 109 and is able to
demonstrate that the benefit of deferred tax assets is fully realizable. The
cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 109 increased net income $14.2 million, or
$.20 per share. In 1991, the deferred tax asset writedown, as required under
SFAS 96, was included in the Federal income tax provision.

(4)Presented on a fully diluted basis.

(5)Pursuant to SFAS 113, amounts for 1992 and 1991 were restated.




ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
             CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FINANCIAL CONDITION

The Progressive Corporation is a holding company and does not have any revenue
producing operations of its own. It receives cash through borrowings, equity
sales, subsidiary dividends and other transactions, and may use the proceeds to
contribute to the capital of its insurance subsidiaries in order to support
premium growth, to repurchase its Common Shares and other outstanding
securities, to redeem its outstanding securities and for other business
purposes. During 1995, the Company repurchased .1 million of its 9 3/8% Serial
Preferred Shares, Series A, at a cost of $2.3 million.

During the three-year period ended December 31, 1995, the Company sold 4,950,000
Common Shares for net proceeds of $177.0 million and repurchased 1.2 million
Common Shares at a total cost of $36.4 million (average cost of $31.92 per
share) and .6 million of its 9 3/8% Serial Preferred Shares, Series A, at a
total cost of $14.4 million (average cost $27.08 per share). The Company also
sold $350.0 million of notes, repaid $170.0 million borrowed under its credit
facilities, and redeemed the entire $70.0 million of its 8 3/4% Debentures.
During the same period, The Progressive Corporation received $254.3 million from
its insurance subsidiaries, net of capital contributions made to these
subsidiaries. The regulatory restrictions on subsidiary dividends are described
in Item 5(c) on page 12 herein.

The Company has substantial capital resources and is unaware of any trends,
events or circumstances that are reasonably likely to affect its capital
resources in a material way. The Company also has available a $20.0 million
revolving credit agreement. Given its 31% debt to equity ratio, the Company
believes it has sufficient borrowing capacity and other capital resources to
support current and anticipated growth.

The Company's insurance operations create liquidity by collecting and investing
premiums from new and renewal business in advance of paying claims. For the
three years ended December 31, 1995, operations generated a positive cash flow
of $1,305.4 million, and cash flow is expected to be positive in both the
short-term and reasonably foreseeable future. The Company's substantial
investment portfolio is highly liquid, consisting almost entirely of readily
marketable securities. On or after May 31, 1996, the Company's 9 3/8% Serial
Preferred Shares, Series A, are redeemable at the Company's option at the price
of $25 per share plus accrued dividends to the redemption date. If the Company
elects to redeem these securities, the redemption could be funded through
operating cash flows or, if market conditions warrant, funds could be raised
externally on the debt or equity markets. The Company does not expect any
material changes in its cash requirements and is not aware of any trends, events
or uncertainties that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on its
liquidity.

Total capital expenditures for the three years ended December 31, 1995,
aggregated $156.5 million. In 1994, the Company completed its new corporate
office complex in Mayfield Village, Ohio. The cost of the project was $75.5
million and was funded through operating cash flows.

INVESTMENTS

The Company invests in fixed-maturity, equity and short-term securities. The
Company's investment strategy recognizes its need to maintain capital adequate
to support its insurance operations and commitment to risk adverse investment
policies. Therefore, the Company evaluates the risk/reward trade-offs of
investment opportunities, measuring their effects on stability, diversity,
overall quality and liquidity of the investment portfolio. The majority of the
portfolio is invested in high-grade, fixed-income securities, of which short-
and intermediate-term securities represented $2,876.2 million, or 76.4%, in 1995
and $2,319.4 million, or 72.9%, in 1994. Long-term securities were $191.9
million, or 5.1%, in 1995 and $245.0 million, or 7.7%, in 1994. The duration of
the fixed-income portfolio was 2.2 years at December 31, 1995. Early in 1995,
the Company eliminated a substantial portion of its municipal securities with
maturities longer than 5 years in response to the proposal of a "flat tax,"
which would effectively eliminate the tax advantage of these securities.



A relatively small portion of the investment portfolio was invested in
marketable equity securities providing risk/reward balance and diversification.
Common stocks represented $310.0 million, or 8.2%, in 1995 and $106.2 million,
or 3.4%, in 1994. The increase in common stocks reflects the Company's objective
to increase its position in common stock investments to 15% of the entire
portfolio and to optimize value and further diversify the portfolio through
foreign equity investments. The foreign equity portfolio, which may utilize
stock index futures and foreign currency forwards, comprised $52.6 million of
the common stock portfolio at December 31, 1995. The remainder of the equity
portfolio of $382.3 million, or 10.1%, in 1995 and $370.1 million, or 11.6%, in
1994, was comprised of over 90% of fixed-rate preferred stocks with mechanisms
that may provide an opportunity to liquidate at par.

Consistent with the Company's objective to increase its common stock
investments, the Company liquidated its high-yield portfolio, reducing it to .2%
of the portfolio at December 31, 1995, from 4.4% at December 31, 1994, resulting
in a net gain of $6.6 million.

In conjunction with guidance issued by the FASB, the Company reclassified $248.4
million of its held-to-maturity securities to available-for-sale, recognizing
$10.4 million in gross unrealized gains. The Company had no held-to-maturity
securities at December 31, 1995.

As of December 31, 1995, the Company's portfolio had $78.7 million in unrealized
gains, compared to $41.1 million in unrealized losses in 1994. This increase in
value was the result of falling interest rates and rising prices in the bond and
stock market. The weighted average fully taxable equivalent book yield of the
portfolio was 6.9%, 6.7% and 6.8% for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively.

The quality distribution of the fixed-income portfolio is as follows:




Investments in the Company's portfolio have varying degrees of risk. Equity
securities generally have greater risks than the non-equity portion of the
portfolio since these securities are subordinate to rights of debt holders and
other creditors of the issuer. Financial instruments with off-balance-sheet
risk are used to manage the risks and enhance the yields of the
available-for-sale portfolio. This is accomplished by modifying the basis,
duration, interest rate or foreign currency characteristics of the portfolio or
hedged securities. Net cash requirements are limited to changes in market values
which may vary based upon changes in interest rates and other factors. Exposure
to credit risk is limited to the carrying value; unless otherwise noted,
collateral is not required to support the credit risk. During 1995, the Company
added a government bond trading portfolio to benefit from short-term market rate
opportunities. The Company has stringent restrictions on the amount of open
positions in the trading portfolio limiting its exposure to acceptable levels.
At December 31, 1995, there were no trading securities or off-balance-sheet
trading positions.

As of December 31, 1995, the Company held $729.1 million of asset-backed
securities which represented 19.3% of the total investment portfolio. The
portfolio included collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and commercial
mortgage-backed obligations (CMBs) totaling $335.2 million and $117.2 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 1995, the CMO portfolio included sequential
bonds representing 65.9% of the CMO portfolio ($221.0 million) with an average
life of 3.1 years, and planned amortization class bonds representing 34.1% of
the CMO portfolio ($114.2 million) with an average life of 1.6 years. One
hundred percent of the CMOs held by the Company are rated AAA by Moody's or
Standard & Poor's. At December 31, 1995, the CMB portfolio had an average life
of 7.4 years and a weighted average Moody's or Standard & Poor's rating of A. At
December 31, 1995, the CMO and CMB portfolios had unrealized gains of $3.9
million and $1.1 million, respectively. The single largest unrealized loss in
any CMO security was $.1 million, or .5% of such position, and there were no
unrealized losses in any CMB security at December 31, 1995. Both the CMO and CMB
portfolios are highly liquid with readily available quotes and contain no
residual interests. The remainder of the asset-backed portfolio is invested
primarily in auto loan and credit card-backed securities.



The Company regularly reviews the individual holdings in its portfolio for
evidence of impairment. Changes in market value are evaluated to determine the
extent to which such changes are attributable to: (i) interest rates, (ii)
market-related factors other than interest rates and (iii) financial conditions,
business prospects and other fundamental factors specific to the issuer.
Declines attributable to issuer fundamentals are reviewed in further detail.
Available evidence is considered to estimate the realizable value of the
investment. When a security in the Company's investment portfolio has a decline
in market value which is other than temporary, the Company is required by GAAP
to reduce the carrying value of such security to its net realizable value. It is
the Company's general policy to dispose of securities when the Company
determines that the issuer is unable to reverse its deteriorating financial
condition and the prospects for its business within a reasonable period of time.
In less severe circumstances, the Company may decide to dispose of a portion of
its holdings in a specific issuer when the risk profile of the investment
becomes greater than its tolerance for such risk.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Operating income, which excludes net realized gains and losses from security
sales and one-time items, was $220.1 million, or $2.84 per share, in 1995,
$212.7 million, or $2.76 per share, in 1994 and $197.3 million, or $2.61 per
share, in 1993. The GAAP combined ratio was 94.3 in 1995, 91.7 (88.5 including
the elimination of the "supplemental reserve" discussed below) in 1994 and 89.3
in 1993.

Direct premiums written increased 16% to $3,068.9 million in 1995, compared to
$2,645.1 million in 1994 and $1,966.4 million in 1993. Net premiums written
increased 19% to $2,912.8 million, compared to $2,457.2 million in 1994 and
$1,819.2 million in 1993. The difference between direct and net premiums written
is largely attributable to premiums written under state-mandated involuntary
Commercial Auto Insurance Procedures (CAIP), for which the Company retains no
indemnity risk, of $105.4 million in 1995, $115.4 million in 1994 and $98.0
million in 1993. During the three years ended December 31, 1995, the Company
provided policy and claim processing services to 28 state CAIPs. Premiums
earned, which are a function of the amount of premiums written in the current
and prior periods, increased 24% in 1995, compared to 31% in 1994 and 17% in
1993.

The Company's Core divisions' net premiums written grew 21%, 38% and 25% for
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, primarily driven by an increase in unit
sales. In 1995, the Company raised rates an average of 6.5%, compared to no rate
changes in 1994 and a rate decrease of .8% in 1993. The Company continues to
write standard and preferred auto risks which represented between 5% and 10% of
total Core business volume. The Company anticipates continued growth in its Core
business in 1996, which could result from the number of states in which the
Company seeks to insure all auto risks, from working with independent agents
dedicated to regaining market share and from integrating other buying options.
The Core divisions generated underwriting profit margins of 5% in 1995, 7% in
1994 and 10% in 1993; the Company's strategy is to achieve a 4% underwriting
margin.

Claim costs, the Company's most significant expense, represent actual payments
made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to or on behalf of its
policyholders, including expenses required to settle claims and losses. These
costs include a loss estimate for future assignments and assessments, based on
current business, under state-mandated involuntary automobile programs. Claims
costs are influenced by inflation and loss severity and frequency, the impact of
which is mitigated by adequate pricing. Increases in the rate of inflation
increase loss payments, which are made after premiums are collected.
Accordingly, anticipated rates of inflation are taken into account when the
Company establishes premium rates and loss reserves. Claim costs, expressed as a
percentage of premiums earned, were 71% in 1995, compared to 67% (excluding the
elimination of the "supplemental reserve") in 1994 and 62% in 1993. The Company
has allowed loss costs to rise at a faster pace than rates, reflecting the
Company's intent to maintain rates at competitive levels.

During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves, the
Company eliminated its $71.0 million "supplemental reserve," resulting in a
one-time increase in earnings of $.62 per share, a 3.2 point increase in the
underwriting profit margin and a $46.2 million increase in capital. The Company
historically established case and IBNR reserves by product with the objective of
being accurate to within plus or minus 2%. Pricing has been based on these
estimates of reserves by product. Because the Company desired a very high degree
of comfort that aggregate reserves were adequate, aggregate reserves were
established near the upper end of the reasonable range of reserves, and the
difference between such aggregate reserves and the midpoint of the reasonable
range of case and IBNR reserves was called the "supplemental reserve." The
Company concluded, after examining its historical aggregate reserves, that the
practice of setting aggregate reserves at the upper end of the range of
reasonable reserves provided an unnecessarily high level of comfort. At December
31, 1994, even without the high level of comfort provided by the "supplemental
reserve," the Company's reserves would have been redundant by approximately 2%
to 4% over the previous 5 years. The Company believes that this change in the
estimate of its reserves placed it more in line with the practices of other
companies in the industry.



Because the Company is primarily an insurer of motor vehicles, it has limited
exposure for environmental, product and general liability claims. The Company
has established reserves for these exposures, in amounts which it believes to be
adequate based on information currently known by it. The Company does not
believe that these claims will have a material impact on the Company's
liquidity, results of operation, cash flows or financial condition.

During 1994, the Company settled the dispute, arising out of its 1985
acquisition of American Star Insurance Company (since renamed National
Continental Insurance Company), over the seller's refusal to pay certain losses
on pre-sale business written by American Star. Under the settlement, National
Continental received $10.1 million from the seller and agreed to be solely
responsible for the next $20 million of gross losses. The seller will thereafter
be responsible for half the losses, net of reinsurance, if it achieves certain
minimum net worth requirements. In addition to the $10.1 million, National
Continental will be entitled to the proceeds of various treaty and facultative
reinsurance policies that had been purchased by American Star. National
Continental has established reserves for these exposures, which are mainly for
product liability and environmental claims, in amounts it believes to be
adequate based on information currently available to it, including a study by
independent actuaries for the seller. Total reserves on this business are $27.9
million, of which $8.8 million is recoverable from reinsurers. The Company will
continue to monitor these exposures, adjust the related reserves appropriately
as additional information becomes known and disclose any material developments.

Policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses as a percentage of premiums
earned were 23% in 1995, compared to 25% in 1994 and 28% in 1993. The decrease
primarily reflects process improvement initiatives and lower commission
programs.

Service businesses generated a pretax operating profit of $8.7 million in 1995,
compared to $10.0 million in 1994 and $6.8 million in 1993.

Recurring investment income (interest and dividends) increased 26% to $199.1
million in 1995, compared to $158.5 million in 1994 and $134.5 million in 1993,
primarily due to an increase in the average investment portfolio and a mix shift
in the portfolio to taxable securities. Net realized gains on security sales
were $46.7 million in 1995, $23.8 million in 1994 and $107.9 million in 1993. A
significant portion of the 1993 realized gains resulted from the sale of certain
equity securities held in the Company's investment portfolio.

ITEM 8.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, along with the related
notes, supplementary data and report of independent accountants, are
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1995 Annual Report, pages 33
through 46 and pages 50 through 55.

ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

A description of the directors, all of whom have been nominated for election as
directors at the 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant, is
incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled "Election of
Directors" in the Proxy Statement, pages 2 and 3.

A description of the executive officers of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
follows. These descriptions reflect the Company's termination of its officership
program and consequent elimination of many officer positions, effective December
31, 1993. Unless otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held the
position(s) indicated for at least the last five years.








ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
"Executive Compensation," pages 7 through 17.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
             MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," pages 4
through 6.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
             FORM 8-K.

        (a)(1)  Listing of Financial Statements

                The following consolidated financial statements of the
                Registrant and its subsidiaries, included in the Registrant's
                Annual Report, are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

                    Report of Independent Accountants

                    Consolidated Statements of Income - December 31, 1995, 1994
                    and 1993

                    Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1995
                    and 1994

                    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity -
                    December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - December 31, 1995,
                    1994 and 1993

                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                    Supplemental Information*

                *Not covered by Report of Independent Accountants.

        (a)(2)  Listing of Financial Statement Schedules

                    The following financial statement schedules of the
                    Registrant and its subsidiaries, Report of Independent
                    Accountants and Consent of Independent Accountants are
                    included in Item 14(d):

                    Schedules

                    Report of Independent Accountants

                    Consent of Independent Accountants

                    Schedule I - Summary of Investments - 
                    Other than Investments in Related Parties

                    Schedule II - Condensed Financial 
                    Information of Registrant




                    Schedule III - Supplementary Insurance Information

                    Schedule IV - Reinsurance

                    Schedule VI - Supplemental Information Concerning
                    Property-Casualty Insurance Operations

                    No other schedules are required to be filed herewith
                    pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation S-X.

         (a)(3) Listing of Exhibits

                See exhibit index contained herein at pages 36 through 39.
                Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements are
                identified in the Exhibit Index as Exhibit Nos. (10)(A) through
                (10)(J).

         (b)    Reports on Form 8-K

                None.

         (c)    Exhibits

                The exhibits in response to this portion of Item 14 are
                submitted concurrently with this report.

         (d)    Financial Statement Schedules

                The response to this portion of Item 14 is located at pages 27
                through 35.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

March 15, 1996                               BY: /s/ Peter B. Lewis
                                                 ------------------
                                                 Peter B. Lewis
                                                 Chairman, President and Chief
                                                 Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Peter B. Lewis       Chairman, President, Chief Executive    March 15, 1996
- ----------------------   Officer and a Director
Peter B. Lewis           

/s/ Charles B. Chokel    Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer   March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Charles B. Chokel

/s/ Jeffrey W. Basch     Chief Accounting Officer                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Jeffrey W. Basch

Milton N. Allen*         Director                                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Milton N. Allen

B. Charles Ames*         Director                                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
B. Charles Ames

Stephen R. Hardis*       Director                                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Stephen R. Hardis

Janet Hill*              Director                                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Janet Hill

Norman S. Matthews*      Director                                March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Norman S. Matthews




Donald B. Shackelford*       Director                  March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Donald B. Shackelford

Paul B. Sigler*              Director                  March 15, 1996
- ----------------------
Paul B. Sigler


* DAVID M. SCHNEIDER, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document on
behalf of the persons indicated above pursuant to a power of attorney duly
executed by such persons.





By /s/ David M. Schneider                              March 15, 1996
   ------------------------
    David M. Schneider
    Attorney-in-fact




                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                   ITEM 14(d)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

                           THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

                             MAYFIELD VILLAGE, OHIO




                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,
The Progressive Corporation:

Our report on the consolidated financial statements of The Progressive
Corporation and subsidiaries has been incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K from page 33 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of The Progressive
Corporation. In connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have
also audited the related financial statement schedules listed in the index on
pages 20 and 21 of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.

                                         COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Cleveland, Ohio
January 24, 1996



                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders,
The Progressive Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement of
The Progressive Corporation on Form S-8 (File No. 33-57121) filed December 29,
1994, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-64210) filed June 10,
1993, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-51034) filed August
20, 1992, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-46944) filed
April 3, 1992, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-38793) filed
February 4, 1991, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-38107)
filed December 6, 1990, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
33-37707) filed November 9, 1990, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File
No. 33-33240) filed January 31, 1990, and the Registration Statement on Form
S-8 (File No. 33-16509) filed August 14, 1987, of our reports dated January 24,
1996, on our audits of the consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedules of The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1995, which reports are included in this Annual Report on Form 
10-K.

                                                       COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Cleveland, Ohio
March 14, 1996



SCHEDULE I -- SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS -- OTHER
THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
(millions)






The Company did not have any securities of one issuer with an aggregate cost or
market value exceeding 10% of total shareholders' equity at December 31, 1995.



SCHEDULE II -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)
(millions)





*Eliminated in consolidation.

(1) Represents a $4.0 million charge on extinguishment of the 8 3/4% Debentures
due 2017.

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)
(millions)





*Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)
(millions)







See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying condensed financial statements of The Progressive Corporation
(the "Registrant") should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto of The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries
included in the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS -- For the purpose of the Statements of Cash Flows,
cash includes only bank demand deposits. The Registrant paid income taxes of
$75.5 million, $89.8 million, and $91.0 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Total interest paid was $56.5 million for 1995, $49.8 million for
1994 and $40.9 million for 1993.

DEBT -- Funded debt at December 31 consisted of:








Funded debt is the amount the Registrant has borrowed and contributed to the
capital of its insurance subsidiaries or borrowed for other long-term purposes.

In May 1990, the Registrant entered into a revolving credit arrangement with
National City Bank, which is reviewed by the bank annually. Under this
agreement, the Registrant had the right to borrow up to $50.0 million. In
February 1994, the Registrant reduced this revolving credit arrangement to $20.0
million. By selecting from available credit options, the Registrant may elect to
pay interest at rates related to the London interbank offered rate, the bank's
base rate or at a money market rate. A commitment fee is payable on any unused
portion of the committed amount at the rate of .125% per annum. At December 31,
1995 and 1994, the Registrant had no borrowings under this arrangement.

In January 1994, the Registrant sold $200.0 million of noncallable 6.60% Notes
due 2004 with interest payable semiannually. The fair value of the Notes was
$203.6 million and $174.2 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

In October 1993, the Registrant sold $150.0 million of noncallable 7% Notes due
2013 with interest payable semiannually. The fair value of these Notes was
$156.6 million and $124.6 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

In May 1989, the Registrant issued $30.0 million of 8 3/4% Notes due 1999 in
exchange for $30.0 million of the 8 3/4% Debentures due 2017. These Notes are
noncallable and interest is payable semiannually. The fair value of these Notes
was $32.7 million and $30.3 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.





SCHEDULE II -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In December 1988, the Registrant sold $150.0 million of 10% Notes due 2000 and
$150.0 million of 10 1/8% Subordinated Notes due 2000. All such Notes are
noncallable with interest payable semiannually on both issues. The fair value of
the 10% Notes and 10 1/8% Subordinated Notes were $175.9 million and $176.1
million, respectively, at December 31, 1995, and $159.8 million and $159.7
million, respectively, at December 31, 1994.

In February 1987, the Registrant sold $100.0 million ($70.0 million after the
May 1989 debt exchange) of 8 3/4% Debentures due 2017 with interest payable
semiannually. In December 1993, the Registrant redeemed the entire $70.0 million
principal amount of these Debentures. The Registrant redeemed the Debentures at
105.425% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, with the proceeds of
the sale of certain securities in its investment portfolios. A $4.0 million
charge on debt extinguishment was recorded as a "non-recurring item."

As of December 31, 1995, the Registrant was in compliance with its debt
covenants.

Aggregate principal payments on funded debt outstanding at December 31, 1995 are
$0 for 1996 through 1998, $30.0 million for 1999 and $300.0 million for 2000 and
$350.0 million thereafter.

INCOME TAXES -- The Registrant files a consolidated Federal income tax return
with all subsidiaries. The Federal income taxes in the accompanying Condensed
Balance Sheets represent amounts recoverable from the Internal Revenue Service
by the Registrant as agent for the consolidated tax group. The Registrant and
its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of
allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the
subsidiaries under the written agreement are included in Intercompany Receivable
from Subsidiaries in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES -- The Registrant, through its
investment in consolidated subsidiaries, recognizes the changes in unrealized
gains (losses) on equity securities of the subsidiaries. These amounts were:






OTHER MATTERS -- The information relating to incentive compensation plans is
incorporated by reference from Note 8, Employee Benefit Plans, "Incentive
Compensation Plans" on page 45 of the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report.




               SCHEDULE III -- SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES







(1)Excluding investment expenses of $8.1 million in 1995, $8.7 million in 1994,
and $10.2 million in 1993.

(2)During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves,
the Company eliminated its $71.0 million "supplemental reserve." See
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations beginning on page 14 for further discussion.




SCHEDULE IV -- REINSURANCE

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
(millions)






SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY - CASUALTY 
INSURANCE OPERATIONS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
(millions)





Pursuant to Rule 12-18 of Regulation S-X. See Schedule III, page 33, for the
additional information required in Schedule VI.

(1)During 1994, based on a review of the adequacy of its total loss reserves,
the Company eliminated its $71.0 million "supplemental reserve." See
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations beginning on page 14 for further discussion.






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX



                         




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX







                                  EXHIBIT INDEX






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




No other exhibits are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 601 of
Regulation S-K.




