10-K


l12357ae10vk.htm

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION     10-K

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION     10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2004

or

o

Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from ______________________ to ___________________________

Commission file number

1-9518

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

34-0963169

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

6300 Wilson Mills Road, Mayfield Village, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(440) 461-5000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange on

Title of each class

which registered

Common Shares, $1.00 Par Value

New York Stock
Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act).

þ

Yes

o

No

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant at June 30,
2004: $16,909,135,762

The number of the Registrant’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, outstanding as of January 31, 2005:
200,095,589

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
April 15, 2005, to be filed on or about March 7, 2005 and the Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended December 31, 2004, included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, are incorporated by
reference in Parts I, II, III and IV hereof.




INTRODUCTION

Portions of the information included in The Progressive Corporation’s Proxy Statement to be filed
on or about March 7, 2005, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 15, 2005 (the
“Proxy Statement”) have been incorporated by reference herein and are identified under the
appropriate items in this Form 10-K. The 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual Report”)
of The Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), which will be
attached as an Appendix to the 2005 Proxy Statement, is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.
Cross references to relevant sections of the Annual Report are included under the appropriate items
of this Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of Business

The Progressive insurance organization began business in 1937. The Progressive Corporation, an
insurance holding company formed in 1965, has 70 subsidiaries and 1 mutual insurance company
affiliate. The Progressive Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries and affiliate provide personal
automobile insurance and other specialty property-casualty insurance and related services
throughout the United States. The Company’s property-casualty insurance products protect its
customers against collision and physical damage to their motor vehicles, uninsured and underinsured
bodily injury, and liability to others for personal injury or property damage arising out of the
use of those vehicles. The Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries generally support the Company’s
insurance and investment operations.

(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

Incorporated by reference
from Note 9,

Segment Information

, beginning on page App.-B-19 of
the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

The Company offers a number of personal and commercial property-casualty insurance products
primarily related to motor vehicles. Net premiums written were $13.4 billion in 2004, compared to
$11.9 billion in 2003 and $9.5 billion in 2002. The combined GAAP ratio was 85.1 in 2004, 87.3 in
2003 and 92.4 in 2002.

Organization

Auto insurance differs greatly by community because regulations and legal decisions vary by state
and because traffic, law enforcement, cultural attitudes, insurance agents, medical services and
auto repair services vary by community. The Company’s organization enables it to meet varied local
conditions under a cohesive set of policies and procedures designed to provide consistency and
control. The Company’s business is organized into four business areas: Agency (which includes both
personal and commercial auto), Direct, Claims, and Sales and Service. Each business has a Group
President and a management team. The Company conducts business in 48 states and the District of
Columbia and has organized these 49 jurisdictions into six geographical regions. The Agency and the
Direct Businesses are managed at the local level and have three General Managers, each responsible
for two regions. The Claims business area has six General Managers responsible for one region each,
with managers at the state level. Sales and Service (which includes Agency and Direct customer
service, direct sales and claims loss reporting, among other services) is performed at six regional
sites in Austin, Texas; Cleveland, Ohio; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona; Sacramento,
California; and Tampa, Florida.

The Company’s executive management team sets policy and makes key strategic decisions and includes
the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Investment
Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Human Resource Officer, as well as the Company’s four
Group Presidents (Agency, Direct, Claims, and



Sales and Service). The Group Presidents are challenged to develop and manage product offerings and
customer service processes tailored to the unique requirements of customers who select Progressive
as their auto insurance carrier and buy policies through the distribution mode of their choice.

Personal Lines

The Company’s Personal Lines segment writes insurance for private passenger automobiles and
recreation and other vehicles. This business frequently offers more than one program in a single
state, with each targeted to a specific distribution channel, market or customer group. Personal
Lines accounted for 88% of total net premiums written in 2004, 2003 and 2002. The Company’s
strategy is to become the low-cost provider of a full line of auto insurance products and related
services, distributed through whichever channel the customer prefers.

Of the approximately 300 United States insurance companies/groups with private passenger auto
insurance premiums over $5 million annually, the Company ranked third in size for 2003 based on net
premiums written, and believes that it held this position for 2004. The top 15 private passenger
auto insurers comprised about 72% of this market. For 2004, the estimated industry net premiums
written for personal auto insurance in the United States and Canada were $158.1 billion, and the
Company’s share of this market was approximately 7.4%, compared to $151.0 billion and 7.0%,
respectively, in 2003, and $139.6 billion and 6.0% in 2002. Except as otherwise noted, all
industry data and the Company’s market share or ranking in the industry either were derived
directly from data reported by A.M. Best Company Inc. (“A.M. Best”) or were estimated using A.M.
Best data as the primary source. The Company’s estimate of the 2004 industry net premiums written
growth is 3.7%, based on actual written premium growth through the first nine months of the year,
which differs from the 4.7% annual net premium written growth estimated by A. M. Best.

Private passenger automobile insurance is comprised of preferred, standard and nonstandard
automobile risks and represented 92% of total Personal Lines net premiums written by the Company in
2004. The Company actively participates in the market for each of these risks, with the objective
of offering an accurate rate for every risk. Volume potential is driven by the Company’s price
competitiveness, brand recognition and the actions of the Company’s competitors, among other
factors. See “Competitive Factors” on page 11 of this report for further discussion.

The Company’s specialty Personal Lines products include insurance for motorcycles, recreation
vehicles, mobile homes, watercraft, snowmobiles and similar items. These specialty products
represented 8% of the Company’s total Personal Lines net premiums written in 2004 and are primarily
distributed by independent agencies. Due to the nature of these products, the Company typically
experiences higher losses during the warmer weather months. The Company’s competitors are
specialty companies and large multi-line insurance carriers. Although industry figures are not
available, based on the Company’s analysis of this market, the Company believes that it is one of
the largest participants in the specialty personal lines market. The Company has been the market
share leader for personal watercraft insurance since 2002, and has been the market share leader for
the motorcycle product since 1998.

The Personal Lines business is generated either by an agency or written directly by the Company.
The Agency channel includes business written by the Company’s network of more than 30,000
independent insurance agencies located throughout the United States, as well as brokerages in New
York and California. These independent insurance agents and brokers have the ability to place
business with the Company to specified insurance coverages within prescribed underwriting
guidelines, subject to compliance with certain Company-mandated procedures. These guidelines
prescribe the kinds and amounts of coverage that may be written and the premium rates that may be
charged for specified categories of risk. The agents and brokers do not have authority on behalf of
the Company to settle or adjust claims, establish underwriting guidelines, develop rates or enter
into other transactions or commitments. The Agency channel also writes business through strategic
alliance business relationships (other insurance companies, financial institutions, employers and
national brokerage agencies). In 2004, the total net premiums written through the Agency channel
represented 68% of the Company’s Personal Lines volume, compared to 69% in 2003 and 70% in 2002.

The Direct channel includes business written through 1-800-PROGRESSIVE and online at
progressive.com. Net premiums written in the Direct channel were 32%, 31% and 30% of
the Company’s Personal Lines volume in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.



Commercial Auto Business

The Commercial Auto business unit writes primary liability and physical damage insurance for
automobiles and trucks owned by small businesses and represented 12% of the Company’s total net
premiums written in 2004, compared to 11% in both 2003 and 2002. The majority of the Commercial
Auto customers insure three or fewer vehicles. Although the Commercial Auto business differs from
Personal Lines auto in its customer bases and products written, both businesses require the same
fundamental skills, including disciplined underwriting and pricing, as well as excellent claims
service. The Company’s Commercial Auto products are distributed primarily through the independent
agency channel. The Company competes for this business on a nationwide basis with nearly 200 other
companies/groups (with net premiums written in excess of $5 million annually). The Company’s
Commercial Auto Business ranked third in market share on a national basis in 2003, based on direct
written premium data reported by A.M. Best, and the Company estimates that it retained that
position for 2004.

Other Businesses – Indemnity

The Company’s other lines of business — indemnity, which represented less than 1% of the Company’s
2004 net premiums written, compared to 1% for both 2003 and 2002, includes professional liability insurance to community
banks, the main product of which is directors and officers liability insurance. The Company shares the risk and
premium on these coverages with a small mutual reinsurer controlled by its bank customers and
various other reinsurance entities. The program, sponsored by the American Bankers Association,
insures over 1,700 banks, representing every state. The
majority of the risk on these coverages is also reinsured by various entities.

In addition, the Company’s other businesses — indemnity include managing the wind-down of the
Company’s lender’s collateral protection program, which the Company ceased writing in 2003, and
other run-off businesses.

Other Businesses – Service

The Company’s other businesses — service includes providing insurance-related services, primarily
providing policy issuance and claims adjusting services for the Commercial Auto Insurance
Procedures/Plans (CAIP), which are state-supervised plans serving the involuntary markets, in 25
states. The Company processes over 49% of the premiums in the CAIP market and competes with two
other providers nationwide. As a service provider, the Company collects fee revenue that is earned
on a pro rata basis over the term of the related policies. The Company cedes 100% of the premiums
and losses to the plans. Reimbursements to the Company from the CAIP plans are required by state
laws and regulations. Material violations of contractual service standards can result in ceding
restrictions for the affected business . The Company has maintained, and plans to
continue to maintain, compliance with these standards. Any changes in the Company’s participation
as a CAIP service provider would not materially affect the Company’s financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows. The other businesses — service represent less than 1% of the
Company’s 2004, 2003 and 2002 revenues.

Claims

The Company manages its claims handling on a companywide basis through more than 450 claims
offices located throughout the United States. In addition, the Company has 20 centers, in 18
cities nationwide, that provide a concierge-level of claims service. These facilities are designed
to provide end-to-end resolution for auto physical damage losses. The Company achieved the
performance standards that had been established for the expansion of its concierge claims strategy
and, as a result, is looking for sites to open approximately 50 additional centers over the next
several years. The Company does not have a predefined sequencing of when these centers will be
opened and will make that determination on a case-by-case basis. The Company is also looking at
expanding this concierge level of service by finding and offering customers the choice of a
replacement vehicle, rather than just payment, when their vehicle is deemed un-repairable. This
service is being tested in limited locations, but the Company expects expansion in 2005.



Risk Factors

The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, certain of which are discussed in
this section. Management divides these risks into three broad categories in assessing how they may
affect the Company’s achievement of its business objectives:

•

Operating Risks

are those stemming from external or internal events or circumstances
that directly or indirectly may affect the Company’s insurance operations.

•

Investing Risks

are uncertainties relating to the performance and preservation of the
Company’s investment portfolios. Unlike most other risks, investment risks may have an
upside as well as a downside, meaning that the actual development of an investment risk
factor (such as whether interest rates go down or up) may result in either an increase or
decrease in the value of investments held by the Company.

•

Financing Risks

generally relate to the Company’s ability to obtain capital when
necessary, pay or otherwise perform the Company’s obligations, including obligations under
any debt instruments issued, and earn the cost of equity capital.

In addition, a separate “Other Risks” category has been added at the end of this discussion for
certain risks to investors that are not included in one of the three categories identified by
management.

Although in the discussion below the Company has organized risks generally according to these
categories, it should be noted that many of the risks have ramifications in more than one category.
For example, although presented as an Operating Risk below, state regulation of insurance
companies may also affect the Company’s investing and financing activities. Similarly, while
setting insurance rates, setting loss reserves and adjusting claims are properly discussed as
Operating Risks, errors in these disciplines may have an impact on the investing and financing
areas as well. The categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding
the significant risks facing the Company and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the
matters being discussed.

This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in
this report and in the other reports and materials filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), as well as news releases and other information publicly disseminated
by the Company from time to time.

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be
immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business. If any of the following risks or
uncertainties develop into actual events, this could have a materially adverse effect on the
Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the market price
of the Company’s Common Shares could decline materially.

I.

Operating Risks

The Company competes in the automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets, which are
highly competitive.

The Company faces vigorous competition from large, well-capitalized national companies and smaller
regional insurers. Other large national and international insurance or financial services
companies may also enter these markets in the future. Many of these companies may have greater
financial, marketing and management resources than the Company. In addition, competitors may offer
consumers combinations of auto policies and other insurance products or financial services which
the Company does not offer. The Company could be adversely affected by a loss of business to
competitors offering similar insurance products at lower prices or offering bundled products or
services and by other competitor initiatives.

The Company from time to time undertakes strategic initiatives to maintain and improve its
competitive position in auto insurance markets. Based on a culture that encourages innovation,
these strategies at times involve significant departures from the Company’s and/or its competitors’
then-current or historical modes of doing business. As such, the Company’s innovations may entail
a degree of risk and may not ultimately achieve anticipated business goals. In



addition, these initiatives may be subject to challenge by regulators or private litigants and may
disrupt the Company’s relationships with certain of its customers and producers (i.e., agents and
brokers). If the Company is unable successfully to develop, plan and implement its strategic
initiatives in these competitive, regulatory and legal environments, its business could be
materially adversely affected.

Similarly, the Company undertakes distinctive advertising campaigns and other efforts to improve
brand recognition and generate growth. If these campaigns or efforts are unsuccessful or are less
effective than those of competitors, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected.

The highly competitive nature of the markets in which the Company competes could also result in the
failure of one or more major competitors. In the event of a failure of a major competitor, the
Company could be adversely affected, as the Company and other insurance companies may be required
under state-mandated plans to absorb the losses of the failed insurer, and as the Company would be
faced with an unexpected surge in new business from the failed insurer’s former policyholders.

The ability of the Company to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and
executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to the Company’s success.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees,
including executives and other key managers. The Company’s loss of certain key officers and
employees or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could have a
materially adverse effect on the Company’s business.

In addition, the Company must forecast the changing business environments (for multiple business
units and in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust its hiring programs
and/or employment levels accordingly. The Company’s failure to recognize the need for such
adjustments, or its failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead
either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect the Company’s cost structure) or
under-staffing (impairing the Company’s ability to service its ongoing and new business) in one or
more business units or locations. In either such event, the Company’s financial results could be
materially adversely affected.

The Company further believes that its success depends, in large part, on its ability to maintain
and improve the staffing models and employee culture that it has developed over the years. The
Company’s ability to do so may be impaired as a result of litigation against the Company,
legislation or regulations at the state or federal level or other factors in the employment
marketplace. In such events, the productivity of certain of the Company’s workers could be
adversely affected, which could lead to an erosion of the Company’s operating performance and
margins.

The Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex federal and state
laws and regulations.

The Company’s insurance businesses operate in a highly regulated environment. The Company’s
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by state insurance departments in
all 50 states and the District of Columbia, each of which has a unique and complex set of laws and
regulations. In addition, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses,
including insurers. The subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these laws and regulations at
reasonable costs, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will
continue to be critical to the Company’s success.

Certain states impose restrictions on or require prior regulatory approval of various actions by
regulated insurers, which may adversely affect the insurance subsidiaries’ ability to operate,
innovate and obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner. The Company’s compliance
efforts are further complicated by changes in laws or regulations applicable to insurance companies
(such as, in recent years, legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning the use of nonpublic
consumer information and related privacy issues, the use of credit scoring in underwriting and
efforts to freeze, set or roll back insurance premium rates). Insurance laws and regulations may
limit the insurance subsidiaries’ ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, prevent the
subsidiaries from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, and restrict
the subsidiaries’ ability to discontinue unprofitable business or exit unprofitable markets. In
addition, compliance with insurance-related laws and regulations often results in increased
administrative costs to the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. These costs, in turn, may adversely
affect the Company’s profitability or its ability or desire to grow its business in the applicable
jurisdictions.



The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could also result in actions by regulators or
other law enforcement officials, fines and penalties, adverse publicity and damage to the Company’s
reputation in the marketplace, and in extreme cases, revocation of a subsidiary’s authority to do
business in one or more jurisdictions. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries can face
individual and class action lawsuits by its insureds and other parties for alleged violations of
certain of these laws or regulations.

During 2004, the Company received document and information requests from several state attorneys
general and insurance regulators regarding ongoing investigations into the relationships between
insurers and brokers and agents, allegations of bid-rigging by certain brokers and other related
matters. For a discussion of the Company’s responses to these requests, see the “Financial
Condition – Commitments and Contingencies” Section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Annual Report, which is attached as Exhibit 13
to this Form 10-K.

Moreover, new legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future which could adversely affect
the Company’s operations or ability to write business profitably in one or more states. In
addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate
the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is
necessary. The Company is unable to predict whether any such laws will be enacted and how and to
what extent such laws and regulations would affect the Company’s businesses.

State insurance regulation may create risk and uncertainties for the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries in other ways as well. For further information on these risks and uncertainties, see
the “Insurance Regulation” discussion beginning on page 12 of this report.

Lawsuits challenging business practices of the Company, its competitors and other companies are
pending and more may be filed in the future.

The Progressive Corporation and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in a number of putative
class action and other lawsuits challenging various aspects of the subsidiaries’ business
operations. These lawsuits include cases alleging damages as a result of the use of after-market
parts; total loss evaluation methodology; the use of credit in
underwriting and related requirements under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act; the methods used for
evaluating and paying certain bodily injury, personal injury protection and medical payment claims;
and policy implementation and renewal procedures, among other matters. From time to time, the
Company also may be involved in litigation or other disputes alleging that its business practices
violate the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Additional
litigation may be filed against the Company and/or its subsidiaries or disputes may arise in the
future concerning these or other business practices. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and
other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against the Company’s competitors and other businesses,
and although the Company is not a party to such litigation, the results of those cases may create
additional risks for, and/or impose additional costs and/or limitations on, the subsidiaries’
business operations.

Lawsuits against the Company often seek significant monetary damages. Moreover, as courts resolve
individual or class action litigation in insurance or related fields, a new layer of court-imposed
regulation could emerge, resulting in material increases in the Company’s costs of doing business.
Such litigation is inherently unpredictable. Except to the extent the Company has established
reserves with respect to particular lawsuits that are currently pending against it, the Company is
unable to predict the effect, if any, that these pending or future lawsuits may have on the
business, operations, profitability or financial condition of the Company. For further information
on pending litigation, see Note 11, Litigation, beginning on page
App.-B-21 of the Annual Report,
which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to underwrite risks accurately and to charge adequate
rates to policyholders.

The Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on the Company’s
ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks. Rate adequacy is
necessary to generate sufficient premium to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and
underwriting expenses and to earn a profit.

The Company’s ability to price accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties,
including, without limitation:



Such risks may result in the Company’s pricing being based on stale, inadequate or inaccurate data
or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and may cause the Company to estimate
incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, the Company could
underprice risks, which would negatively affect the Company’s margins, or it could overprice risks,
which could reduce the Company’s volume and competitiveness. In either event, the Company’s
operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

The Company’s financial performance may also be materially adversely affected by severe weather
conditions or other catastrophic losses.

The Company continues to be exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other
catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes,
windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather and fires, and other events, such as
explosions, terrorist attacks, riots, hazardous material releases, utility outages or interruptions
of communications facilities. The extent of insured losses from a catastrophe is a function of
both the Company’s total insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the nature and
severity of the event. In addition, the Company’s business could be further impaired if a
significant portion of its business or systems were shut down by, or if the Company were unable to
gain access to certain of its facilities as a result of, such an event. Most of the Company’s past
catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. The incidence and severity of
catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. When they occur with enough severity, the Company’s
financial performance, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to establish accurate loss reserves and to adjust
claims accurately.

The Company’s financial statements include loss reserves, which represent the Company’s best
estimate of the amounts that the subsidiaries will ultimately pay on claims that have been
incurred, and the related costs of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the financial
statements. There is inherent uncertainty in the process of establishing property and casualty
loss reserves, which can arise from a number of factors, including:



As a result of these and other risks and uncertainties, ultimate paid losses and loss adjustment
expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from point-in-time estimates of such losses and
expenses, as reflected in the loss reserves included in the Company’s financial statements.
Consequently, ultimate losses paid could materially exceed loss reserves and have a materially
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial position. Further
information on the Company’s loss reserves can be found in the “Liability for Property-Casualty
Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” discussion beginning on page 15 of this report, as well as the
Company’s “Report on Loss Reserving Practices,” which was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June
29, 2004.

Likewise, the Company must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under its policies.
Many factors can affect the Company’s ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and
experience of the Company’s claims representatives, the claims organization’s culture and the
effectiveness of its management, the Company’s ability to develop or select and implement
appropriate procedures and systems to support its claims functions, and other factors. The
Company’s failure to pay claims accurately could result in unanticipated costs to the Company, lead
to material litigation, undermine customer goodwill and the Company’s reputation in the marketplace
and impair the Company’s brand image and, as a result, materially adversely affect the Company’s
financial results and liquidity.

The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of its facilities, systems and
business functions, including its information technology and other business systems.

The Company’s business is highly dependent upon its employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient
and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour call
centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or
inability to access one or more of the Company’s facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or
more of the Company’s information technology, telecommunications or other systems could
significantly impair the Company’s ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In
addition, because the Company’s information technology and telecommunications systems interface
with and depend on third party systems, the Company could experience service denials if demand for
such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If
sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result
in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide
customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary corporate functions.
This could result in a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business results and liquidity.

A security breach of the Company’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations
or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential
customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of
security measures, including hiring an independent firm to perform intrusion vulnerability testing
of the Company’s computer systems, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer
viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any
well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that
involve transmitting confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could have a
material, adverse effect on the Company’s business.

II.

Investing Risks

The performance of the Company’s fixed-income and equity investment portfolios are subject to
investment risks.

The Company’s fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks, including:

•

Interest rate risk

– the risk of adverse changes in the value of
fixed-income securities as a result of increases in the underlying
market rates, which is the most significant risk to the
fixed-income portfolio.

•

Credit risk

– the risk that the value of certain investments may
become impaired due to the deterioration in financial condition of
one or more issuers of those instruments and, ultimately, the risk
of permanent loss in the event of default by an issuer.

•

Concentration risk

– the risk that the portfolio is too heavily
concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors or
industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the
value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the
financial condition of those issuers or the market value of their
securities.

•

Prepayment or extension risk

(applicable to certain securities in
the portfolio, such as residential mortgage-backed securities) –
the risk that, as interest rates change, prepayment expectations
of principal of such securities may change, adversely affecting
the value of or income from such securities and the portfolio.



The common equity portfolio, which is managed to track the Russell 1000 index, is subject to
general movements in the values of equity markets and to the changes in the prices of the
securities held by the Company. Equity markets and individual securities may be subject to periods
of high volatility. A decline in the aggregate value of the equities that make up the index would
be expected to result in a commensurate decline in the value of the Company’s common equity
portfolio.

In addition, both the fixed-income and the common equity portfolios are subject to risks inherent
in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the
investments held by the Company and the Company’s ability to liquidate investments on favorable
terms on short notice may be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise
affected by local, national or international events, such as power outages, system failures, wars
or terrorist attacks, or by recessions or depressions, a significant change in inflation
expectations, a significant devaluation of governmental or private sector credit, currencies or
financial markets, and other factors or events.

If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by market, sector or
issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, the Company’s liquidity, financial position and
financial results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the Company’s
income from these investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain
securities could further reduce the Company’s reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in
value of the Company’s investment portfolio could also put the Company’s insurance subsidiaries at
risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements. If the Company was not at that
time able to supplement its subsidiaries’ capital from The Progressive Corporation’s other assets
or by issuing debt or equity securities on acceptable terms, the Company’s business could be
materially adversely affected.

III.

Financing Risks

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries may be limited in the amount of dividends that they can pay to
the holding company, which in turn may limit the holding company’s ability to pay dividends to
shareholders, repay indebtedness or make capital contributions to its subsidiaries or affiliates.

The Progressive Corporation is a holding company with no business operations of its own.
Consequently, if the Company’s subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or make other distributions
to The Progressive Corporation, or are able to pay only limited amounts, the holding company may be
unable to pay dividends to shareholders, make payments on its indebtedness, meet its other
obligations, or make capital contributions to or otherwise fund its subsidiaries or affiliates.
Each insurance subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company may be limited by one
or more of the following factors:

•

State insurance regulatory authorities require insurance companies to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory
capital and surplus.

•

Competitive pressures require the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength ratings.

•

In certain jurisdictions, prior approval must be obtained from state regulatory authorities for the insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to affiliated entities, including the holding company.

Further information on state insurance laws and regulations which may limit the ability of the
Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends can be found in Item 5(c), “Subsidiary
Dividends,” on page 19 of this report.

The Company’s financial condition may be adversely affected if one or more parties with which it
enters into significant contracts becomes insolvent or experiences other financial hardship.

The Company’s business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities
under various contractual relationships, including without limitation, contracts for the
acquisitions of goods and services (such as telecommunications and information technology equipment
and support, and other services that are integral to the Company’s operations) and arrangements for
transferring certain of the Company’s risks (including reinsurance used by the Company in
connection with certain of its insurance products, and the Company’s corporate insurance policies).
If one or more of these parties were to default on the performance of their obligations under
their respective contracts or determine to abandon or terminate support for a system, product or
service that is significant to the Company’s



business, the Company could suffer significant financial losses and operational problems, which
could in turn adversely affect the Company’s financial performance, cash flows or results of
operations.

The Company’s access to capital markets, its financing arrangements and its business operations are
dependent on favorable evaluations and ratings by credit and other rating agencies.

The Company’s credit strength is evaluated and rated by various rating agencies, such as Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. In addition, the financial strength of the Company’s
insurance subsidiaries is rated by A.M. Best. The Company and its insurance subsidiaries currently
enjoy favorable, stable ratings. Downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect
the Company’s ability to access the capital markets and/or lead to increased borrowing costs in the
future (although the interest rates paid by the Company on current indebtedness would not be
affected). Perceptions of the Company by investors, agents and consumers could also be
significantly impaired. Downgrades in the ratings of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries could
likewise negatively impact the Company’s operations, potentially resulting in lower or negative
premium growth. In either event, the Company’s financial performance could be materially adversely
affected.

IV.

Other Risks

The Company does not manage analysts’ or investors’ earnings expectations, and the Company
announces its financial results on a monthly basis, which may result in stock price volatility.

The Company believes that shareholder value will be increased in the long run if the Company meets
or exceeds certain financial goals and policies established by the Company. The Company does not
manage its business to maximize short-term stock performance. The Company does not provide
earnings estimates to the market and does not comment on earnings estimates by analysts. As a
result, the Company’s reported results for a particular period may vary, perhaps significantly,
from investors’ expectations, which could result in significant volatility in the Company’s stock
price.

The Company publicly announces its financial results on a monthly basis, in addition to the
quarterly and annual public filings required by law. The Company believes that this level of
reporting provides more timely disclosure to shareholders and potential investors, enabling them to
enhance their understanding of the Company’s performance. Such reports, however, may disclose
variation of results that investors might not see in quarterly reports. Consequently, investor
reaction to such variation could result in significant volatility in the Company’s stock price.

Similarly, under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to record a significant
loss or other adjustment to income in a specific monthly reporting period in the event of a
significant reserve adjustment, catastrophic loss, development(s) in litigation against the
Company, other-than-temporary impairment write-down of one or more investments, or other
extraordinary events. In addition, the change in market value of certain derivative instruments
the Company holds may also affect reported income. Such events may make the Company’s reported
results appear volatile and could adversely affect the market for the Company’s stock.

Competitive Factors

The automobile insurance and other property-casualty markets in which the Company operates are
highly competitive. Property-casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of price, consumer
recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and
geographic coverage. Vigorous competition is provided by large, well-capitalized national
companies, some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents, and by
smaller regional insurers. The Company relies heavily on technology and extensive data gathering
and analysis to segment markets and price according to risk potential. The Company has remained
competitive by closely managing expenses and achieving operating efficiencies, and by refining its
risk measurement and price segmentation skills. Superior customer service, claims adjusting and
strong brand recognition are also important factors in the Company’s competitive strategy.



State Insurance Licenses

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various insurance
authorities. These licenses may be of perpetual duration or renewable periodically, provided the
holder continues to meet applicable regulatory requirements. The licenses govern the kinds of
insurance coverages that may be written in the issuing state. Such licenses are normally issued
only after the filing of an appropriate application and the satisfaction of prescribed criteria.
All licenses that are material to the subsidiaries’ businesses are in good standing.

Insurance Regulation

The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulation and supervision by
insurance departments of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or licensed to transact
business. At least one of the insurance subsidiaries is licensed and subject to regulation in each
of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. The nature and extent of such regulation and
supervision varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Generally, an insurance company is subject
to a higher degree of regulation and supervision in its state of domicile. The Company’s insurance
subsidiaries and affiliate are domiciled in the states of Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Louisiana,
Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin. State insurance departments have
broad administrative power relating to licensing insurers and agents, regulating premium changes
and policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing statutory accounting methods and
the form and content of statutory financial reports, and regulating the type and amount of
investments permitted. Rate regulation varies from “use and file” to prior approval to mandated
rates.

Insurance departments are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that insurance companies
maintain adequate capital and surplus and comply with a variety of operational standards.
Insurance companies are generally required to file detailed annual and other reports with the
insurance department of each jurisdiction in which they conduct business. Insurance departments
are authorized to make periodic and other examinations of regulated insurers’ financial condition
and operations to monitor financial stability of the insurers and to ensure adherence to statutory
accounting principles and compliance with state insurance laws and regulations.

Insurance holding company laws enacted in many jurisdictions grant to insurance authorities the
power to regulate acquisitions of insurers and certain other transactions and to require periodic
disclosure of certain information. These laws impose prior approval requirements for certain
transactions between regulated insurers and their affiliates and generally regulate dividend and
other distributions, including loans and cash advances, between regulated insurers and their
affiliates. See the “Subsidiary Dividends” discussion in Item 5(c) for further information on
these dividend limitations.

Under state insolvency and guaranty laws, regulated insurers can be assessed or required to
contribute to state guaranty funds to cover policyholder losses resulting from the insolvency of
other insurers. Insurers are also required by many states, as a condition of doing business in the
state, to provide coverage to certain risks which are not insurable in the voluntary market. These
“assigned risk” plans generally specify the types of insurance and the level of coverage which must
be offered to such involuntary risks, as well as the allowable premium. Many states also have
involuntary market plans which hire a limited number of servicing carriers to provide insurance to
involuntary risks. These plans, through assessments, pass underwriting and administrative expenses
on to insurers that write voluntary coverages in those states.

Insurance companies are generally required by insurance regulators to maintain sufficient surplus
to support their writings. Although the ratio of writings to surplus that the regulators will
allow is a function of a number of factors, including the type of business being written, the
adequacy of the insurer’s reserves, the quality of the insurer’s assets and the identity of the
regulator, the annual net premiums that an insurer may write are generally limited in relation to
the insurer’s total policyholders’ surplus. Thus, the amount of an insurer’s surplus may, in
certain cases, limit its ability to grow its business. The Company is in the process of slowly
increasing operating leverage through a higher ratio of net premiums written to surplus in its
insurance subsidiaries where permitted. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners also
has developed a risk-based capital (RBC) program to enable regulators to take appropriate and
timely regulatory actions relating to insurers that show signs of weak or deteriorating financial



condition. RBC is a series of dynamic surplus-related formulas which contain a variety of factors
that are applied to financial balances based on a degree of certain risks, such as asset, credit
and underwriting risks.

Many states have laws and regulations that limit an insurer’s ability to exit a market. For
example, certain states limit an automobile insurer’s ability to cancel or non-renew policies.
Furthermore, certain states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more lines of business from
the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. The state
insurance department may disapprove a plan that may lead to market disruption.
Laws and regulations that limit the cancellation or non-renewal of policies and that subject
program withdrawals to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer’s ability to exit
unprofitable markets.

Regulation of insurance constantly changes as real or perceived issues and developments arise.
Some changes may be due to economic developments, such as changes in investment laws made to
recognize new investment vehicles; other changes result from such general pressures as consumer
resistance to price increases and concerns relating to insurer rating and underwriting practices
and solvency. In recent years, legislation and voter initiatives have been introduced, and in some
cases adopted, which deal with use of non-public consumer information, use of financial
responsibility and credit information in underwriting, insurance rate development, rate
determination and the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew insurance policies, reflecting
concerns about consumer privacy, coverage, availability, prices and alleged discriminatory pricing.
In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies
investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation
is necessary.

In a number of states, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries use financial responsibility or credit
information (credit) as part of the underwriting or rating process. This practice is expressly
authorized by the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and the Company’s data demonstrates
that credit is an effective predictor of insurance risk. The use of credit in underwriting and
rating is the subject of significant regulatory and legislative activity. Regulators and
legislators have expressed a number of concerns related to the use of credit, including: questions
regarding the accuracy of credit reports, perceptions that credit may have a disparate effect on
the poor and certain minority groups, the perceived lack of a demonstrated causal relationship
between credit and insurance risk, the treatment of persons with limited or no credit, the impact
on credit of extraordinary life events (e.g., catastrophic injury or death of a spouse), and the
credit attributes applied in the credit scoring models used by insurers. A number of state
insurance departments have issued bulletins, directives or regulations to regulate the use of
credit by insurers. In addition, a number of states are considering or have passed legislation to
regulate insurers’ use of credit. Also, Congress recently mandated that the federal government
conduct a disparate impact study of the use of credit. It is possible that Congress may enact
further legislation affecting the use of credit in underwriting and rating following completion of
that study.

In some states, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure in past years from
regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce, freeze or set rates to or at levels
that are not necessarily related to underlying costs, including initiatives to roll back automobile
and other personal lines rates. This kind of activity has affected adversely, and in the future
may affect adversely, the profitability and growth of the subsidiaries’ automobile insurance
business in those jurisdictions, and may limit the subsidiaries’ ability to increase rates to
compensate for increases in costs. Adverse legislative and regulatory activity limiting the
subsidiaries’ ability to price automobile insurance adequately, or affecting the subsidiaries’
insurance operations adversely in other ways, may occur in the future. The impact of these
regulatory changes on the subsidiaries’ businesses cannot be predicted.



Statutory Accounting Principles

The Company’s results are reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America (GAAP), which differ in certain respects from amounts reported under
statutory accounting principles (SAP) prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities. Primarily,
under GAAP:

1.

Commissions, premium taxes and other variable costs incurred in connection with writing new
and renewal business are capitalized and amortized on a pro rata basis over the period in
which the related premiums are earned, rather than expensed as incurred, as required by SAP.

2.

Certain assets are included in the consolidated balance sheets, but are non-admitted and
charged directly against statutory surplus under SAP. These assets consist primarily of
premium receivables that are outstanding over 90 days, federal deferred tax assets in excess
of statutory limitations, furniture, equipment, application computer software, leasehold
improvements and prepaid expenses.

3.

Amounts related to ceded reinsurance, such as prepaid reinsurance premiums and reinsurance
recoverables, are shown gross, rather than netted against unearned premium reserves and loss
and loss adjustment expense reserves, respectively, as required by SAP.

4.

Fixed-maturity securities, which are classified as available-for-sale, are reported at
current market values, rather than at amortized cost, or the lower of amortized cost or
market, depending on the credit quality of the specific security, as required by SAP. Equity
securities are reported at quoted market values, which may differ from the NAIC market values
as required by SAP.

5.

Both current and deferred taxes are recognized in the income statement for GAAP, while
deferred taxes are posted directly to surplus for SAP.

Investments

The Company employs a conservative approach to investment and capital management intended to ensure
that there is sufficient capital to support all of the insurance premium that can be profitably
written. The Company’s portfolio is invested primarily in short-term and intermediate-term,
investment-grade fixed-income securities. The Company’s investment portfolio, at market value, was
$13.1 billion at December 31, 2004, compared to $12.5 billion at December 31, 2003. Investment
income is affected by shifts in the type and quality of investments in the portfolio, changes in
interest rates and other factors. Investment income, including net realized gains (losses) on
securities, before expenses and taxes, was $563.7 million in 2004, compared to $478.0 million in
2003 and $376.6 million in 2002. For more detailed discussion, see

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

,
beginning on page App.-B-26 of the
Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

Employees

The number of employees, excluding temporary employees, at December 31, 2004, was 27,085.



Liability for Property-Casualty Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses (LAE) of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. The Company’s objective is to
ensure that total reserves (i.e., case reserves and incurred but not recorded reserves-“IBNR”) are
adequate to cover all loss costs, while sustaining minimal variation from the time reserves are
initially established until losses are fully developed. The liabilities for losses and LAE are
determined using actuarial and statistical procedures and represent undiscounted estimates of the
ultimate net cost of all unpaid losses and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year. These
estimates are subject to the effect of future trends on claims settlement, among other factors.
These estimates are continually reviewed and adjusted as experience develops and new information
becomes known. Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in the current results of operations. A
detailed discussion of the Company’s loss reserving practices can be found in its

Report on Loss
Reserving Practices

, which was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June 29, 2004.

The accompanying tables present an analysis of property-casualty losses and LAE. The following
table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending estimated liability balances for 2004, 2003
and 2002 on a GAAP basis.

RECONCILIATION OF NET RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

(millions)




Balance at January 1

$

4,576.3

$

3,813.0

$

3,238.0

Less reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses

229.9

180.9

168.3

Net balance at January 1

4,346.4

3,632.1

3,069.7

Incurred related to:

Current year

8,664.1

7,696.5

6,295.6

Prior years

(109.1

)

(56.1

)

3.5

Total incurred

8,555.0

7,640.4

6,299.1

Paid related to:

Current year

5,719.2

5,065.4

4,135.0

Prior years

2,233.7

1,860.7

1,601.7

Total paid

7,952.9

6,926.1

5,736.7

Net balance at December 31

4,948.5

4,346.4

3,632.1

Plus reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses

337.1

229.9

180.9

Balance at December 31

$

5,285.6

$

4,576.3

$

3,813.0

During 2004 and 2003, the Company experienced $109.1 million and $56.1 million, respectively, of
favorable loss reserve development, compared to $3.5 million of unfavorable development in 2002.
The favorable development during 2004 was driven by actuarial adjustments as well as favorable “all
other development” (e.g., claims settling for more or less than reserved, emergence of unreported
claims at rates different than reserved and changes in reserve estimates by claims
representatives). The favorable “all other development” also reflects the continued recognition of
lower severity for prior accident years than had been previously estimated. In
addition to the favorable claims development during 2003, the Company benefited from a change in
its estimate of the Company’s future operating losses due to business assigned from the New York
Automobile Insurance Plan. During 2002, the Company made no significant change to the estimate of
total loss reserves recorded in prior years. The Company conducts extensive reviews each month on
portions of its business to help ensure that the Company is meeting its objective of having
reserves that are adequate, with minimal variation.

The Company takes into account the projected change in average severities of
claims, which is caused by the anticipated effect of inflation and a number of factors that vary with the individual type of policy
written. Future average severities are projected based on historical trends adjusted for
anticipated changes in underwriting standards, inflation, policy provisions and general economic
trends. These anticipated trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified if
necessary.



The Company has not entered into any loss reserve transfers or similar transactions having a
material effect on earnings or reserves.

ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT

(millions)

YEAR ENDED












LIABILITY FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND
LAE -

GROSS

$

1,432.9

$

1,610.5

$

1,800.6

$

2,146.6

$

2,188.6

$

2,416.2

$

2,986.4

$

3,238.0

$

3,813.0

$

4,576.3

$

5,285.6

LESS: REINSURANCE RECOVERABLE
ON UNPAID LOSSES

334.2

296.1

267.7

279.1

242.8

216.0

201.1

168.3

180.9

229.9

337.1

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID
LOSSES AND LAE -

NET


$

1,098.7

$

1,314.4

$

1,532.9

$

1,867.5

$

1,945.8

$

2,200.2

$

2,785.3

$

3,069.7

$

3,632.1

$

4,346.4

$

4,948.5

PAID (CUMULATIVE) AS OF:

One year later

525.3

593.0

743.6

922.0

1,082.8

1,246.5

1,409.3

1,601.7

1,860.7

2,233.8

Two years later

706.4

838.9

1,034.5

1,289.6

1,487.9

1,738.5

2,047.2

2,290.7

2,688.9

Three years later

810.6

960.1

1,266.1

1,474.9

1,680.6

2,001.4

2,355.0

2,655.8

—

Four years later

857.1

1,057.1

1,351.1

1,554.1

1,785.7

2,126.4

2,514.6

—

—

Five years later

892.7

1,092.5

1,384.0

1,596.7

1,836.4

2,191.4

—

—

—

Six years later

909.7

1,106.3

1,399.9

1,618.2

1,865.3

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

917.1

1,112.3

1,408.9

1,630.4

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

919.7

1,117.6

1,414.1

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

922.6

1,120.9

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

924.5

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

LIABILITY RE-ESTIMATED
AS OF:

One year later

1,042.1

1,208.6

1,429.6

1,683.3

1,916.0

2,276.0

2,686.3

3,073.2

3,576.0

4,237.3

Two years later

991.7

1,149.5

1,364.5

1,668.5

1,910.6

2,285.4

2,708.3

3,024.2

3,520.7

Three years later

961.2

1,118.6

1,432.3

1,673.1

1,917.3

2,277.7

2,671.2

2,988.7

—

Four years later

940.6

1,137.7

1,451.0

1,669.2

1,908.2

2,272.3

2,666.9

—

—

Five years later

945.5

1,153.3

1,445.1

1,664.7

1,919.0

2,277.5

—

—

—

Six years later

952.7

1,150.1

1,442.0

1,674.5

1,917.6

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

952.6

1,146.2

1,445.6

1,668.4

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

949.7

1,147.4

1,442.5

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

950.9

1,146.3

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

950.0

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT:

FAVORABLE/(UNFAVORABLE)

$

148.7

$

168.1

$

90.4

$

199.1

$

28.2

$

(77.3

)

$

118.4

$

81.0

$

111.4

$

109.1

PERCENTAGE


13.5

12.8

5.9

10.7

1.4

(3.5

)

4.3

2.6

3.1

2.5

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY FOR
UNPAID LOSSES AND LAE -

GROSS

$

1,201.7

$

1,395.5

$

1,713.0

$

1,930.7

$

2,151.5

$

2,492.3

$

2,866.0

$

3,172.7

$

3,754.8

$

4,530.2

LESS: RE-ESTIMATED REINSURANCE
RECOVERABLE ON UNPAID LOSSES

251.7

249.2

270.5

262.3

233.9

214.8

199.1

184.0

234.1

292.9

RE-ESTIMATED LIABILITY FOR
UNPAID LOSSES AND LAE -

NET


$

950.0

$

1,146.3

$

1,442.5

$

1,668.4

$

1,917.6

$

2,277.5

$

2,666.9

$

2,988.7

$

3,520.7

$

4,237.3

GROSS CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT:

FAVORABLE/(UNFAVORABLE)

$

231.2

$

215.0

$

87.6

$

215.9

$

37.1

$

(76.1

)

$

120.4

$

65.3

$

58.2

$

46.1


Represents loss and LAE reserves net of reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses
at the balance sheet date.


Cumulative development ÷ liability for unpaid losses and LAE-Net.



The above table presents the development of balance sheet liabilities for losses and LAE from
1994 through 2003. The top line of the table shows the estimated liability for unpaid losses and
LAE recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years for the property-casualty
insurance subsidiaries only. This liability represents the estimated amount of losses and LAE for
claims that are unpaid at the balance sheet date, including IBNR. The table also presents the
re-estimated liability for unpaid losses and LAE on a gross basis, with separate disclosure of the
re-estimated reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses.

The upper section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to the previously
recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. The lower portion of the table shows the
re-estimated amount of the previously recorded liability based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as more information about the claims
becomes known for individual years. For example, as of December 31, 2004, the insurance
subsidiaries had paid $1,120.9 million of the currently estimated $1,146.3 million of losses and
LAE that had been incurred through the end of 1995; thus, an estimated $25.4 million of losses
incurred through 1995 remain unpaid as of the current financial statement date.

The cumulative development represents the aggregate change in the estimates over all prior years.
For example, the 1994 liability has developed favorably by $148.7 million over ten years. That
amount has been reflected in income over the ten years and did not have a significant effect on the
income of any one year. The effects on income during the past three years due to changes in
estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE are shown in the
reconciliation table on page 15 as
the “prior years” contribution to incurred losses and LAE.

In evaluating this information, note that each cumulative development amount includes the effects
of all changes in amounts during the current year for prior periods. For example, the amount of
the development related to losses settled in 1997, but incurred in 1994, will be included in the
cumulative development amount for years 1994, 1995 and 1996. Conditions and trends that have
affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future.
Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future development based on this table.

The Company experienced continually favorable reserve development from 1994 through 1998 primarily
due to decreasing bodily injury severity. From the beginning of 1994 continuously through the
third quarter 1998, the Company’s bodily injury severity decreased each quarter when compared to
the same quarter of the prior year. This period of decreasing severity for the Company was not
only longer than that experienced by the industry, but also longer than at any time in the
Company’s recent history. The reserves established as of the end of each year assumed the current
accident year’s severity would increase over the prior accident year’s estimate. As the experience
continued to be evaluated at later dates, the realization of the decreased severity resulted in
favorable reserve development. Late in 1998, the Company started
experiencing an increase in bodily injury severity. As a result, the
reserve development has been much closer to the Company’s
original estimate.

The Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses Development table on page 16 is constructed from
Schedule P, Part-1, from the Consolidated Annual Statements of the Company’s insurance
subsidiaries, as filed with the state insurance departments.

(d) Financial Information about geographic areas.

The Company operates throughout the United States.

(e) Available information.

The Company’s Web site is progressive.com. As soon as reasonably practicable, the Company makes
all documents filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, including its reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q
and Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, available free of charge via its Web site at
progressive.com/investors. These reports are also available on the SEC’s Web site: sec.gov.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s corporate headquarters are located on a 42-acre parcel in Mayfield Village, Ohio.
The Company also owns a 72-acre corporate office complex near the headquarters. Buildings on these
two sites, which are owned by a subsidiary of the Company, contain approximately 1.6 million square
feet of office space, including a .2 million square foot building added in 2004.

The Company also owns seven other buildings in Cleveland, Ohio suburbs near the corporate office
complexes; seven buildings in Tampa, Florida; three buildings in Colorado Springs, Colorado; and a
building in each of the following cities: Albany, New York; Austin, Texas; Ft. Lauderdale, Florida;
Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania; Tempe, Arizona; and Tigard, Oregon. Four of these buildings are
partially leased to non-affiliates. In total, these buildings contain
approximately 2.2 million
square feet of office, warehouse and training facility space and are owned by subsidiaries of the
Company. These facilities are occupied by the Company’s business units or other operations and are
not segregated by industry segment.

The Company leases approximately 1.2 million square feet of office and warehouse space at various
locations throughout the United States for its business units and corporate functions. In
addition, the Company leases approximately 450 claims offices, consisting of approximately 3.4
million square feet, at various locations throughout the United States. These leases are generally
short-term to medium-term leases of standard commercial office space.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Incorporated by reference from Note 11,

Litigation

, beginning
on page App.-B-21 of the
Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2004.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated by reference from information with respect to executive officers of The Progressive
Corporation and its subsidiaries set forth in Item 10 in Part III of this Form 10-K.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

(a) Market Information and Dividends

The Company’s Common Shares, $1.00 par value, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol PGR. The high and low prices set forth below are as reported on the consolidated
transaction reporting system.

Dividends

Year

Quarter

High

Low

Close

Per Share



$

89.06

$

80.68

$

87.60

$

.025


91.97

81.30

85.30

.025


85.60

73.10

84.75

.030


97.29

83.01

84.84

.030

$

97.29

$

73.10

$

84.84

$

.110



$

60.41

$

46.25

$

59.31

$

.025


76.38

59.66

73.10

.025


75.81

64.25

69.11

.025


84.68

69.11

83.59

.025

$

84.68

$

46.25

$

83.59

$

.100

The closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on January 31, 2005 was $83.65.

(b) Holders

There were 3,908 shareholders of record on January 31, 2005.

(c) Subsidiary Dividends

Consolidated statutory policyholders’ surplus was $4.7 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively. At December 31, 2004, $488.7 million of consolidated statutory
policyholders’ surplus represented net admitted assets of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries and
affiliate that are required to meet minimum statutory surplus requirements in such entities’ states
of domicile. The companies may be licensed in states other than their states of domicile, which may
have higher minimum statutory surplus requirements. Generally, the net admitted assets of insurance
companies that, subject to other applicable insurance laws and regulations, are available for
transfer to the parent company cannot include the net admitted assets required to meet the minimum
statutory surplus requirements of the states where the companies are licensed. Based on the
dividend laws currently in effect, the insurance subsidiaries may pay aggregate dividends of
$1,229.9 million in 2005 without prior approval from regulatory authorities, provided the dividend
payments are not within 12 months of previous dividends paid by the applicable subsidiary.



(d) Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.

The following information is set forth with respect to the equity compensation plan information at
December 31, 2004.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

Cumulative

Number of Securities

Number of Securities

Weighted-Average

Number of

Remaining Available

to be Issued upon

Exercise Price of

Securities

for Future Issuance

Exercise of

Outstanding

Awarded as

Under Equity

Plan Category

Outstanding Options

Options

Restricted Stock

Compensation Plans

Equity compensation plans approved by
security holders:

Employee Plans:

2003 Incentive Plan

—

—

697,850

4,302,150

1995 Incentive Plan


5,763,782

$

33.77

347,856

7,141,717

1989 Incentive Plan

825,719

19.98

—

—

Subtotal Employee Plans

6,589,501

32.04

1,045,706

11,443,867

Director Plans:

2003 Directors Equity Incentive Plan

—

—

28,344

321,656

1998 Directors’ Stock Option Plan

170,277

36.12

—

406,956

1990 Directors’ Stock Option Plan

72,000

19.45

—

—

Subtotal Director Plans

242,277

31.17

28,344

728,612

Equity compensation plans not approved by
security holders:

None

Total

6,831,778

32.01

1,074,050

12,172,479


This plan expired on February 10, 2005. As of that date, no securities remain
available for further issuance thereunder.

(e) Share Repurchases

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


Total Number of Shares Purchased

Maximum Number of Shares That

Calendar

Total Number of

Average Price Paid per

as Part of Publicly Announced Plans

May Yet Be Purchased Under the

Month

Shares Purchased

Share

or Programs

1,2

Plans or Programs

1,2

January

50,089

$

82.64

3,168,596

11,831,404

February

51,149

83.78

3,219,745

11,780,255

March

200,000

86.92

3,419,745

11,580,255

April

280,000

88.57

3,699,745

11,300,255

May

200,000

83.84

3,899,745

11,100,255

June

216,417

85.92

4,116,162

10,883,838

July

510,737

76.80

4,626,899

10,373,101

August

185,000

76.61

4,811,899

10,188,101

September

—

—

4,811,899

10,188,101

October


16,919,674

88.00

16,919,674

—

October

—

—

4,811,899

10,188,101

November

—

—

4,811,899

10,188,101

December

1,830

91.48

4,813,729

10,186,271

Total

18,614,896

$

87.48




In April 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to
15,000,000 Common Shares. The Company may purchase its shares from time to time, in the open
market or otherwise, when opportunities exist to buy at attractive prices or for purposes which are
otherwise in the best interest of the Company.


On September 13, 2004, the Company announced a modified “Dutch auction” tender offer to
purchase up to 17.1 million of its outstanding Common Shares, $1.00 par value. Under the terms of
the offer, which expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time on October 15, 2004, shareholders of
the Company could tender some or all of their shares at prices not greater than $88.00 nor less
than $78.00 per share. At the close of the tender offer, the Company determined that 16.9 million
of its Common Shares were properly tendered at prices at or below $88.00 per share and not
withdrawn. Because shareholders tendered less than 17.1 million Common Shares, there was no
proration and the Company purchased all 16.9 million Common Shares at $88 per share.

The Company’s Board of Directors also confirmed that the tender offer did not reduce the number of
shares available for repurchase pursuant to the resolution approved by the Board in April 2003.
The Company, therefore, retains the authority to repurchase the remaining 10,186,271 shares
authorized in April 2003.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(millions – except per share amounts)

For the years ended December 31,






Total revenues

$

13,782.1

$

11,892.0

$

9,294.4

$

7,488.2

$

6,771.0

Net income

1,648.7

1,255.4

667.3

411.4

46.1

Per share:


Net income


7.63

5.69

2.99

1.83

.21

Dividends

.110

.100

.096

.093

.090

Total assets

17,184.3

16,281.5

13,564.4

11,122.4

10,051.6

Debt outstanding

1,284.3

1,489.8

1,489.0

1,095.7

748.8


All per share amounts were adjusted for the April 22, 2002, 3-for-1 stock split.


Presented on a diluted basis.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Incorporated by reference from

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

beginning on page App.-B-26 of the Annual Report, which is included as
Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated by reference from
the “Investments” section of

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

, as described in Item 7 above. Additional information is incorporated by
reference from the “Quantitative Market Risk Disclosures”
section beginning on page App.-B-46 of
the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, along with the related notes, supplementary
data and report of the independent registered public accounting firm, are incorporated by reference
from the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

The Company, under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer,
has established disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. The disclosure
controls and procedures are also intended to ensure that such information is accumulated and
communicated to the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer reviewed and evaluated the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that review and evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effectively serving the stated purposes
as of the end of the period covered by this report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is incorporated by reference from
page App.-B-24 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

The independent registered public accounting firm’s Attestation Report on Management’s Assessment
of Internal Control over Financial Reporting is incorporated by
reference from page App.-B-25 of the
Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

There has been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the
Company’s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to all of the directors, and the individuals who have been nominated for
election as directors at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant, is incorporated
herein by reference from the section entitled “Item 1:Election of Directors” in the Proxy
Statement.

Information relating to executive officers of the Registrant and its subsidiaries follows. Unless
otherwise indicated, the executive officer has held the position(s) indicated for at least the last
five years.

Name

Age

Offices
Held and Last Five Years’ Business Experience

Glenn M. Renwick


President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001; Chief
Executive Officer – Insurance Operations during 2000; Chief
Technology Officer prior to March 2000; President, Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of Progressive Casualty
Insurance Company, the principal subsidiary of the Registrant,
from March 2000 to March 2004

W. Thomas Forrester


Vice President since June 2001; Chief Financial Officer; Treasurer
prior to June 2001

Charles E. Jarrett


Vice President since June 2001; Secretary since February 2001;
Chief Legal Officer since November 2000; Partner at Baker &
Hostetler LLP, which is the principal outside law firm of the
Company, prior to November 2000

Jeffrey W. Basch


Vice President; Chief Accounting Officer

Thomas A. King


Treasurer since April 2003; Investment Strategist from February
2001 to March 2003; Vice President; Corporate Controller prior to
February 2001

Alan R. Bauer


Group President of the Direct Business since January 2002;
Internet Business Leader prior to January 2002

William M. Cody


Chief Investment Officer since February 2003; Portfolio Manager
prior to February 2003

Susan Patricia Griffith


Chief Human Resource Officer since April 2002; Process Manager for
Claims Central Services from January 2001 to April 2002; Regional
Claims Consultant prior to January 2001

Brian J. Passell


Group President of Claims since January 2002; Claims Business
Leader prior to January 2002

Raymond M. Voelker


Chief Information Officer since April 2000; Information Technology
Executive – Claims and Infrastructure Technologies prior to April

Richard H. Watts


Group President of Sales and Service since January 2002; Direct
Business Leader prior to January 2002

Robert T. Williams


Group President of the Agency Business since January 2002; Agency
Business Leader from April 2000 to December 2001; Chief
Pricing/Product Officer prior to April 2000



Audit Committee.

Incorporated by reference from the “Audit Committee” section of the Proxy
Statement (which can be found in “Item 1- Election of Directors”).

Financial Expert.

Incorporated by reference from the “Audit Committee Financial Expert ” section of
the Proxy Statement (which can be found in “Item 1: Election of Directors”).

Shareholder-Proposed Candidate Procedures.

In January 2004, the Nominating and Governance Committee
of the Board of Directors approved procedures for shareholders to recommend candidates for
nomination to the Board. The description of those procedures are incorporated by reference from
the “Shareholder-Proposed Candidate Procedures of the Proxy Statement (which can be found in “Item
1: Election of Directors”).

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.

On February 10, 2004, Mr. Charles A. Davis, a director of the Company, received a distribution
from the Company of the cash equivalent of 13.6889 phantom stock units (which are valued on a
1-to-1 basis with the Company’s Common Shares) pursuant to The Progressive Corporation Directors
Deferral Plan. This transaction was reported late on a Form 4 filed on April 2, 2004, due to an
administrative error on the part of the Company.

On September 16, 2004, Mr. Peter B. Lewis, Chairman of the Board, filed a Form 4 reporting the
August 20, 2004 sale of 500 Common Shares to an irrevocable trust, of which the reporting person is
neither a trustee or a beneficiary, in connection with the creation and funding of Lewis Children
VII, LLC.

Code of Ethics.

The Company’s Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and other senior financial officers is available at: progressive.com/governance, or may be
requested in print by writing to: The Progressive Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300 Wilson
Mills Road, Box W33, Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.
The Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 10 of Form 10-K regarding
amendments to, and waivers from, the provisions of the foregoing Code of Ethics by posting such
information on the Company’s Internet website at: progressive.com/governance.

Disclosures required by the New York Stock Exchange.

The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines
and Board Committee Charters (including charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee,
Investment and Capital Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee) are available at:
progressive.com/governance, or may be requested in print by writing to: The Progressive
Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300 Wilson Mills Road, Box W33, Mayfield Village, Ohio 44143.

The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors, officers and employees is
available at: progressive.com/governance, or may be requested in print by writing to: The
Progressive Corporation, Investor Relations, 6300 Wilson Mills Road, Box W33, Mayfield Village,
Ohio 44143.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Executive
Compensation.”

ITEM 12. SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
AND

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Item 1: Election of
Directors – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.”

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Incorporated by reference from the section of the Proxy Statement entitled “Other Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm Information.”



PART IV

ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)(1)

Listing of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of the Registrant and its subsidiaries included in
the Registrant’s 2004 Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Income – For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity – For the Years Ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows – For the Years Ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Supplemental Information (Unaudited)

(a)(2)

Listing of Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial statement schedules of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Consent of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm are included in Item 15(c):

Schedules

Schedule I – Summary of Investments – Other than Investments in Related Parties

Schedule II – Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

Schedule III – Supplementary Insurance Information

Schedule IV – Reinsurance

Schedule VI – Supplemental Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

No other schedules are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation S-X.





SCHEDULE I – SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS – OTHER

THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

December 31, 2004

Amount At Which

Shown In The

Type of Investment

Cost

Market Value

Balance Sheet

Fixed Maturities:

Available-for-sale:

United States Government and government
agencies and authorities

$

1,970.1

$

1,962.5

$

1,962.5

States, municipalities and
political subdivisions

2,873.2

2,940.4

2,940.4

Asset-backed securities

2,345.7

2,368.7

2,368.7

Foreign government obligations

30.8

31.4

31.4

Corporate and other debt securities

1,752.8

1,781.3

1,781.3

Total fixed maturities

8,972.6

9,084.3

9,084.3

Equity securities:

Common stocks:

Public utilities

112.3

163.2

163.2

Banks, trusts and insurance companies

305.9

430.0

430.0

Industrial, miscellaneous and all other

895.8

1,258.7

1,258.7

Nonredeemable preferred stocks

749.4

768.9

768.9

Total equity securities

2,063.4

2,620.8

2,620.8

Short-term investments

1,376.6

1,376.9

1,376.9

Total investments

$

12,412.6

$

13,082.0

$

13,082.0

The Company did not have any securities of one issuer with an aggregate cost or market value
exceeding 10% of total shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2004.



SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

Years Ended December 31,




Revenues

Dividends from subsidiaries*

$

2,123.8

$

533.5

$

47.3

Intercompany investment income*

13.2

12.6

21.6

Gain on sale of consolidated subsidiary

—

1.7

—

2,137.0

547.8

68.9

Expenses

Interest expense

86.1

98.9

76.2

Other operating costs and expenses

5.8

5.2

2.4

91.9

104.1

78.6

Income (loss) before income taxes and other items below

2,045.1

443.7

(9.7

)

Income tax benefit

(34.4

)

(35.7

)

(21.5

)

Income before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

2,079.5

479.4

11.8

Equity in undistributed net income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries*

(430.8

)

776.0

655.5

Net income

$

1,648.7

$

1,255.4

$

667.3

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to
 financial statements.



SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

December 31,



ASSETS

Investment in non-consolidated affiliates

$

.4

$

.4

Investment in subsidiaries*

5,412.6

5,301.2

Receivable from subsidiary*

962.0

1,162.4

Intercompany receivable*

213.0

168.3

Other assets

49.9

37.0

TOTAL ASSETS

$

6,637.9

$

6,669.3

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

$

108.2

$

93.5

Income taxes payable

90.0

61.4

Debt

1,284.3

1,483.8

Total liabilities

1,482.5

1,638.7

Shareholders’ equity:

Common Shares, $1.00 par value (authorized 600.0
shares, issued 213.2, and 230.1, including treasury
shares of 12.8 and 13.7)

200.4

216.4

Paid-in capital

743.3

688.3

Unamortized restricted stock

(46.0

)

(28.9

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):

Net unrealized gains of investment in equity
securities of consolidated subsidiaries

435.1

418.2

Net unrealized gains on forecasted transactions

9.7

10.7

Foreign currency translation adjustment

—

(3.9

)

Retained earnings

3,812.9

3,729.8

Total shareholders’ equity

5,155.4

5,030.6

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

$

6,637.9

$

6,669.3

*

Eliminated in consolidation.

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION (PARENT COMPANY)

(millions)

Years Ended December 31,




CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Net income

$

1,648.7

$

1,255.4

$

667.3

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used in operating
activities:

Equity in income of consolidated subsidiaries

(1,693.0

)

(1,309.5

)

(702.8

)

Restricted stock amortization

1.1

.8

—

Gain on sale of consolidated subsidiary

—

(1.7

)

—

Changes in:

Intercompany receivable or payable

(44.7

)

(52.0

)

(48.3

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

2.9

20.2

13.6

Income taxes

28.6

(14.2

)

29.7

Tax benefits from exercise of stock options

44.3

44.0

19.3

Other, net

(12.3

)

(18.6

)

(2.9

)

Net cash used in operating activities

(24.4

)

(75.6

)

(24.1

)

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Additional investments in equity securities of consolidated subsidiaries

(499.7

)

(110.3

)

(294.4

)

Dividends received from consolidated subsidiaries

2,123.8

516.2

47.3

Proceeds from sale of consolidated subsidiary

—

8.2

—

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

1,624.1

414.1

(247.1

)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

51.7

50.0

22.6

Proceeds from debt

—

—

393.5

Payment of debt

(200.0

)

—

—

Receivable from subsidiary

200.4

(50.0

)

90.5

Dividends paid to shareholders

(23.3

)

(21.7

)

(21.1

)

Acquisition of treasury shares

(1,628.5

)

(316.8

)

(214.3

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(1,599.7

)

(338.5

)

271.2

Change in cash

—

—

—

Cash, beginning of year

—

—

—

Cash, end of year

$

—

$

—

$

—

See notes to condensed financial statements.



SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying condensed financial statements of The Progressive Corporation (the “Registrant”)
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of The
Progressive Corporation and subsidiaries included in the Registrant’s 2004 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS — For the purpose of the Statements of Cash Flows, cash includes only
bank demand deposits. The Registrant paid income taxes of $709.0 million in 2004, and $579.0
million and $392.0 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Total interest paid was $91.6 million
for 2004 and $98.9 million for 2003 and $64.2 million in 2002. Non-cash activity includes the
liability for deferred restricted stock compensation and the contribution of restricted stock from
the Registrant to its subsidiaries.

On April 22, 2002, the
Registrant effected a 3-for-1 split of its Common Shares, $1.00 par
value, in the form of a dividend to shareholders. In connection with
this transaction, the Registrant transferred $147.0 million from
returned earnings to the Common Share account. All per share and
share amounts and stock prices were adjusted to give effect to the
split. Treasury shares were not split.

DEBT – Debt at December 31 consisted of:

(millions)



Market

Market

Cost

Value

Cost

Value

6.60% Notes due 2004 (issued: $200.0, January 1994)

$

—

$

—

$

200.0

$

200.3

7.30% Notes due 2006 (issued: $100.0, May 1996)

99.9

105.2

99.9

110.8

6.375% Senior Notes due 2012 (issued: $350.0, December
2001)

347.7

384.6

347.5

382.6

7% Notes due 2013 (issued: $150.0, October 1993)

148.9

171.1

148.8

171.0

6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2029 (issued: $300.0, March 1999)

294.1

324.2

294.0

312.5

6.25% Senior Notes due 2032 (issued: $400.0, November 2002)

393.7

417.0

393.6

408.8

$

1,284.3

$

1,402.1

$

1,483.8

$

1,586.0

Debt includes amounts the Company has borrowed and contributed to the capital of its insurance
subsidiaries or borrowed for other long-term purposes. Market values are obtained from publicly
quoted sources. Interest on all debt is payable semiannually and all principal is due at maturity.
There are no restrictive financial covenants.

The 6.25% Senior Notes, the 6.375% Senior Notes and the 6 5/8% Senior Notes (collectively, “Senior
Notes”) may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time, at the option of the Company, subject to a
“make whole” provision. All other debt is noncallable.

In June 2004, the Company entered into an uncommitted line of credit with National City Bank in the
principal amount of $100 million. Interest on amounts borrowed accrues at a rate related to the
London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). No commitment fees are required to be paid under this line
of credit. The Company had no borrowings under this arrangement at December 31, 2004.

In January 2004, the Company entered into a revolving credit arrangement with National City Bank,
replacing a prior credit facility with National City Bank, which had the same material terms with
the exception of additional interest rate options under the new arrangement. Under this agreement,
the Company had the right to borrow up to $10.0 million. By selecting from available credit
options, the Company could elect to pay interest at the prime rate or rates related to LIBOR. A
commitment fee was payable on any unused portion of the committed amount at the rate of .125% per
annum. The Company had no borrowings under this arrangement at December 31, 2004 or 2003. In
January 2005, the Company elected to allow this revolving credit arrangement to expire at its
contractual termination date, due to the fact that the Company maintains the $100 million line of
credit with National City Bank, as discussed above.

Aggregate principal payments on debt outstanding at December 31, 2004 are $0 for 2005, $100.0
million for 2006, $0 for 2007, 2008, and 2009 and $1.2 billion thereafter.



SCHEDULE II – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

(Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

INCOME TAXES – The Registrant files a consolidated Federal income tax return with all
subsidiaries. The Federal income taxes in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets represent
amounts payable to the Internal Revenue Service by the Registrant as agent for the consolidated tax
group. The Registrant and its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method
of allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the subsidiaries under the
written agreement are included in Intercompany Receivable in the accompanying
Condensed Balance Sheets.

INVESTMENTS IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES – The Registrant, through its investment in consolidated
subsidiaries, recognizes the changes in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities
of the subsidiaries. These amounts were:

(millions)




Changes in unrealized gains (losses):

Available-for-sale: fixed maturities

$

(122.4

)

$

(68.7

)

$

227.1

equity securities

148.4

462.2

(164.0

)

Deferred income taxes

(9.1

)

(137.7

)

(22.2

)

$

16.9

$

255.8

$

40.9

OTHER MATTERS – The information relating to incentive compensation plans is incorporated by
reference from Note 8,

Employee Benefit Plans

, “Incentive Compensation Plans” beginning on
page App.-B-16 of the Annual Report, which is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.



SCHEDULE III – SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Future

policy

Other

benefits,

policy

Benefits,

Amortization

Deferred

losses,

claims

claims,

of deferred

policy

claims and

and

Net

losses and

policy

Other

Net

acquisition

loss

Unearned

benefits

Premium

Investment

settlement

acquisition

operating

premiums

Segment

costs


expenses


premiums


payable


revenue

Income


expenses

costs

expenses

written

Year ended
December 31, 2004:

Personal Lines

$

11,611.9

$

7,629.3

$

1,241.8

$

1,107.0

$

11,735.8

Commercial Auto
Business

1,524.1

909.9

173.4

119.4

1,616.6

Other
businesses-
indemnity

33.9

15.8

2.8

12.2

25.7

Total

$

432.2

$

5,285.6

$

4,108.0

$

—

13,169.9

$

470.5

$

8,555.0

$

1,418.0

$

1,238.6

$

13,378.1

Year ended
December 31, 2003:

Personal Lines

$

10,051.0

$

6,841.0

$

1,098.3

$

892.7

$

10,502.8

Commercial Auto
Business

1,226.7

768.9

140.7

102.9

1,357.7

Other
businesses-
indemnity

63.3

30.5

10.1

14.5

52.9

Total

$

412.3

$

4,576.3

$

3,894.7

$

—

$

11,341.0

$

453.8

$

7,640.4

$

1,249.1

$

1,010.1

$

11,913.4

Year ended
December 31, 2002:

Personal Lines

$

7,907.8

$

5,622.6

$

903.5

$

790.0

$

8,362.5

Commercial Auto
Business

880.0

622.2

100.7

77.1

1,002.9

Other
businesses-
indemnity

95.7

54.3

27.4

7.1

86.6

Total

$

363.5

$

3,813.0

$

3,304.3

$

—

$

8,883.5

$

443.7

$

6,299.1

$

1,031.6

$

874.2

$

9,452.0


The Company does not allocate assets, liabilities or investment income to
operating segments.



SCHEDULE IV – REINSURANCE

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Assumed

Percentage

Ceded to

From

of Amount

Gross

Other

Other

Assumed

Year Ended:

Amount

Companies

Companies

Net Amount

to Net

December 31, 2004

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

13,480.8

$

310.9

$

—

$

13,169.9

—

December 31, 2003

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

11,597.5

$

256.5

$

—

$

11,341.0

—

December 31, 2002

Premiums earned:

Property and liability

$

9,078.1

$

194.7

$

.1

$

8,883.5

—



SCHEDULE VI -SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY –

CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

THE PROGRESSIVE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(millions)

Losses and Loss Adjustment

Paid Losses and Loss

Expenses Incurred Related to

Adjustment Expenses

Year Ended

Current Year

Prior Years

December 31, 2004

$

8,664.1

$

(109.1

)

$

7,952.9

December 31, 2003

$

7,696.5

$

(56.1

)

$

6,926.1

December 31, 2002

$

6,295.6

$

3.5

$

5,736.7

Pursuant to Rule 12-18 of Regulation S-X. See Schedule III, page 33, for the additional
information required in Schedule VI.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedules

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

of The Progressive Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements, of management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated March 1, 2005 appearing in the
2004 Annual Report to Shareholders of The Progressive Corporation (which report, consolidated
financial statements and assessment are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K. In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

March 1, 2005



Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders

of The Progressive Corporation:

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on:

Form

Filing No.

Filing Date

S-8

333-104646

April 21, 2003

S-8

333-104653

April 21, 2003

S-3

333-100674

October 22, 2002

S-8

333-41238

July 12, 2000

S-8

333-51613

May 1, 1998

S-8

333-25197

April 15, 1997

S-8

33-57121

December 29, 1994

S-8

33-64210

June 10, 1993

S-8

33-51034

August 20, 1992

S-8

33-38793

February 4, 1991

S-8

33-37707

November 9, 1990

S-8

33-33240

January 31, 1990

S-8

33-16509

August 14, 1987

of The Progressive Corporation of our report dated March 1, 2005 relating to the financial
statements, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also
consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated March 1, 2005 relating to the
financial statement schedules, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Cleveland, Ohio

March 1, 2005



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

*

Director, Chairman of the Board

March 1, 2005

Peter B. Lewis

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer

March 1, 2005

Glenn M. Renwick

*

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

March 1, 2005

W. Thomas Forrester

/s/
Jeffrey W. Basch

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

March 1, 2005

Jeffrey W. Basch

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Milton N. Allen

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Stephen R. Hardis

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Bernadine P. Healy, M.D.



*

Director

March 1, 2005

Jeffrey D. Kelly

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Philip A. Laskawy

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Norman S. Matthews

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Patrick H. Nettles, Ph.D.

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Donald B. Shackelford

*

Director

March 1, 2005

Bradley T. Sheares, Ph.D.

*

Charles E. Jarrett, by signing his name hereto, does sign this document on behalf of the
persons indicated above pursuant to a power of attorney duly executed by such persons.

By:

/s/ Charles E. Jarrett

March 1, 2005

Charles E. Jarrett

Attorney-in-fact



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(3)(i)

3(A)

Amended Articles of Incorporation, as
amended, of The Progressive Corporation
(“Progressive”)

Registration Statement No. 333-104646
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(d) therein)

(3)(ii)

3(B)

Code of Regulations of The Progressive
Corporation (as amended April 16, 2004)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 10, 2004; Exhibit 3(A) therein)

(4)

4(A)

$10,000,000 Unsecured Line of Credit
with National City Bank (dated May 23,
1990; renewed May 20, 1992; amended
February 1, 1994 and May 1, 1997);
expired January, 2004

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
4(A) therein)

(4)

4(B)

$10,000,000 Commercial Note: Revolving
Credit with National City Bank (dated
January 27, 2004); expired January, 2005

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
4(B) therein)

(4)

4(C)

Commercial Note: Demand Line of Credit
with National City Bank dated June 15,

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on June 18, 2004; Exhibit 99
therein)

(4)

4(D)

Indenture dated as of September 15, 1993
between Progressive and State Street
Bank and Trust Company (successor in
interest to The First National Bank of
Boston), as Trustee (“1993 Senior
Indenture”) (including and cross-reference sheet)

Registration Statement No. 333-48935
(filed with SEC on March 31, 1998;
Exhibit 4.1 therein)

(4)

4(E)

Form of 7% Notes due 2013 issued in the
aggregate principal amount of
$150,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture

Filed herewith

(4)

4(F)

Form of 6.60% Notes due 2004 issued in
the aggregate principal amount of
$200,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 30, 2000; Exhibit
4(H) therein)

(4)

4(G)

First Supplemental Indenture dated March
15, 1996 between Progressive and State
Street Bank and Trust Company,
evidencing the designation of State
Street Bank and Trust Company as
successor Trustee under the 1993 Senior
Indenture

Registration Statement No. 333-01745
(filed with SEC on March 15, 1996;
Exhibit 4.2 therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(4)

4(H)

Form of 7.30% Notes due 2006, issued in
the aggregate principal amount of
$100,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture, as amended and supplemented

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
4(J) therein)

(4)

4(I)

Second Supplemental Indenture dated
February 26, 1999 between Progressive
and State Street Bank and Trust Company,
as Trustee, supplementing and amending
the 1993 Senior Indenture

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
4(H) therein)

(4)

4(J)

Form of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2029,
issued in the aggregate principal amount
of $300,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture, as amended and supplemented

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
4(I) therein)

(4)

4(K)

Third Supplemental Indenture dated
December 7, 2001 between Progressive and
State Street Bank and Trust Company, as
Trustee

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2001;
Exhibit 4.5 therein)

(4)

4(L)

Form of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2012,
issued in the aggregate principal amount
of $350,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture, as amended and supplemented

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2001;
Exhibit 4.6 therein)

(4)

4(M)

Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated
November 21, 2002 between Progressive
and State Street Bank and Trust Company,
as Trustee

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on November 21, 2002;
Exhibit 4.6 therein)

(4)

4(N)

Form of 6.25% Senior Notes due 2032,
issued in the aggregate principal amount
of $400,000,000 under the 1993 Senior
Indenture, as amended and supplemented

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on November 21, 2002;
Exhibit 4.7 therein)

(10)(ii)

10(A)

Aircraft Management Agreement dated
April 23, 1999, between Village Transport
Corp. and ACME Operating Corporation

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 30, 2000; Exhibit 10(E) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(ii)

10(B)

Hangar Sharing Agreement dated as of
June 1, 2002 between Progressive
Casualty Insurance Company and ACME
Operating Corporation

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(B) therein)

(10)(ii)

10(C)

Reimbursement Agreement dated December
23, 2002 between Village Transport Corp.
and ACME Operating Corporation

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(D)

The Progressive Corporation 2003

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(E)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Gainsharing Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(F)

The Progressive Corporation 2005

Gainsharing Plan

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on February 1, 2005; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(G)

2003 Progressive Capital Management

Bonus Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(H)

2004 Progressive Capital Management

Bonus Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(I)

2005 Progressive Capital Management

Bonus Plan

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on February 1, 2005; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(J)

The Progressive Corporation 1999
Executive Bonus Plan
(as amended on January 31, 2003)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(K)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Executive Bonus Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(J) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(L)

The Progressive Corporation 2004

Information Technology Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(K) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(M)

The Progressive Corporation 2005

Information Technology Incentive Plan

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on February 1, 2005; Exhibit
10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(N)

The Progressive Corporation 1989
Incentive Plan (amended and restated as
of April 24, 1992, as further amended on
July 1, 1992 and February 5, 1993)

Schedule TO (filed with SEC on
September 14, 2004; Exhibit (d)(5)
therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)


(O)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1989 Incentive Plan (single
award)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
10(R) therein)

(10)(iii)


(P)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1989 Incentive Plan
(multiple awards)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
10(S) therein)

(10)(iii)


(Q)

The Progressive Corporation 1995
Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 30, 2000; Exhibit
10(P) therein)

(10)(iii)


(R)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1995 Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(M) therein)

(10)(iii)


(S)

Form of Objective-Based (now known as
Performance-Based) Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement under The Progressive
Corporation 1995 Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
10(T) therein)

(10)(iii)


(T)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 1995
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Time-Based Award)

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)


(U)

The Progressive Corporation 2003
Incentive Plan

Registration Statement No. 333-104646
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(a) therein)

(10)(iii)


(V)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Time-Based Award) (for 2003)

Registration Statement No. 333-104646
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(b) therein)

(10)(iii)


(W)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Time-Based Award) (for 2004
and thereafter)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 10, 2004; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)


(X)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Performance-Based Award) (for 2003)

Registration Statement
No. 333-104646
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(c) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)


(Y)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award
Agreement (Performance-Based Award) (for
2004 and thereafter)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 10, 2004; Exhibit
10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)


(Z)

The Progressive Corporation 2003
Directors Equity Incentive Plan

Registration Statement No. 333-104653
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(a) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AA)

Amendment No. 1 to The Progressive
Corporation 2003 Directors Equity
Incentive Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(V) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AB)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Directors Equity Incentive Plan
Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for
2003)

Registration Statement No. 333-104653
(filed with SEC on April 21, 2003;
Exhibit 4(b) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AC)

Form of The Progressive Corporation 2003
Directors Equity Incentive Plan
Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for
2004 and thereafter)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 10, 2004; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AD)

The Progressive Corporation Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan (2003
Amendment and Restatement)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12, 2003; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AE)

First Amendment to The Progressive
Corporation Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan (2003 Amendment and
Restatement)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(Y) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AF)

Second Amendment to The Progressive
Corporation Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan (2003 Amendment and
Restatement)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(Z) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AG)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Performance-Based Restricted Stock
Deferral Agreement (for 2003)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12, 2003; Exhibit
(10(B) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AH)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Deferral Agreement (for 2004)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(AA) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(AI)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Deferral Agreement (for 2005)

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2004;
Exhibit 10(a) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AJ)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Performance-Based Restricted Stock
Deferral Agreement (for 2004)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(AC) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AK)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Performance-Based Restricted Stock
Deferral Agreement (for 2005)

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2004;
Exhibit 10(c) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AL)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Time-Based Restricted Stock Deferral
Agreement (for 2003)

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12, 2003; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AM)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Time-Based Restricted Stock Deferral
Agreement (for 2004)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(AE) therein

(10)(iii)

10(AN)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Time-Based Restricted Stock Deferral
Agreement (for 2005)

Current Report on Form 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2004;
Exhibit 10(b) therein

(10)(iii)

10(AO)

The Progressive Corporation Executive
Deferred Compensation Trust (November 8,
2002 Amendment and Restatement)

Schedule TO (filed with SEC on
September 14, 2004; Exhibit (d)(25)
therein

(10)(iii)

10(AP)

First Amendment to Trust Agreement
between Fidelity Management Trust
Company and the Company

Schedule TO (filed with SEC on
September 14, 2004; Exhibit (d)(26)
therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AQ)

The Progressive Corporation Directors
Deferral Plan (Amendment and
Restatement), as further amended on
October 25, 1996

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AR)

The Progressive Corporation Directors

Restricted Stock Deferral Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(AH) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(AS)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Directors Restricted Stock Deferral Plan
Deferral Agreement (for 2004)

Annual Report on From 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 4, 2004; Exhibit
10(AI) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AT)

Form of The Progressive Corporation
Directors Restricted Stock Deferral Plan
Deferral Agreement (for 2005)

Current Report on From 8-K (filed
with SEC on December 10, 2004;
Exhibit 10(d) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AU)

The Progressive Corporation 1990
Directors’ Stock Option Plan (Amended
and Restated as of April 24, 1992 and as
further amended on July 1, 1992)

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(T) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AV)

The Progressive Corporation 1998
Directors’ Stock Option Plan

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(U) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AW)

Director Compensation Schedule for 2003,
2004 and 2005

Filed herewith

(10)(iii)

10(AX)

The Progressive Corporation Executive

Separation Allowance Plan

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AY)

Separation Agreement and General Release
dated February 23, 2001 between
Progressive Casualty Insurance Company
and Charles B. Chokel

Annual Report on Form 10-K (filed
with SEC on March 29, 2001; Exhibit
10(M) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(AZ)

Agreement dated May 16, 2001 between The
Progressive Corporation and Glenn
Renwick

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 13, 2001; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BA)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and W. Thomas Forrester

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BB)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
W. Thomas Forrester

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(A) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BC)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Brian J. Passell

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(B) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(BD)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Brian J. Passell

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(B)

(10)(iii)

10(BE)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Charles E. Jarrett

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BF)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Charles E. Jarrett

Quarterly Report on form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(C) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BG)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Glenn M. Renwick

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(D) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BH)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Glenn M. Renwick

Quarterly Report on form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(D) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BI)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Richard H. Watts

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(E) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BJ)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Richard H. Watts

Quarterly Report on form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003, Exhibit
10(E) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BK)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Raymond M. Voelker

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BL)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Raymond M. Voelker

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(F) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BM)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Robert T. Williams

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(G) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BN)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Robert T. Williams

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003, Exhibit
10(G) therein)



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(10)(iii)

10(BO)

Employment Agreement dated August 24,
2001 between The Progressive Corporation
and Alan R. Bauer

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on November 5, 2001; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BP)

Amendment to Employment Agreement
between The Progressive Corporation and
Alan R. Bauer

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on August 14, 2003; Exhibit
10(H) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BQ)

Employment Agreement dated April 21,
2003 between The Progressive Corporation
and S. Patricia Griffith

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12, 2003; Exhibit
10(I) therein)

(10)(iii)

10(BR)

Employment Agreement dated April 21,
2003 between The Progressive Corporation
and William M. Cody

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (filed
with SEC on May 12, 2003; Exhibit
10(J) therein)

(11)


Computation of Earnings Per Share

Filed herewith

(12)


Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
Fixed Charges

Filed herewith

(13)


The Progressive Corporation 2004 Annual
Report to Shareholders

Filed herewith

(21)


Subsidiaries of The Progressive
Corporation

Filed herewith

(23)


Consent of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

Incorporated herein by reference to
page 37 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K

(24)


Powers of Attorney

Filed herewith

(31)


(A)

Certification of the Principal Executive
Officer, Glenn M. Renwick, of The
Progressive Corporation, pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

Filed herewith

(31)


(B)

Certification of the Principal Financial
Officer, W. Thomas Forrester, of The
Progressive Corporation, pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

Filed herewith



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Form

Under

10-K

Reg. S-K,

Exhibit

If Incorporated by Reference, Documents with

Item 601

No.

Description of Exhibit

Which Exhibit was Previously Filed with SEC

(32)


(A)

Certification of the Principal Executive
Officer, Glenn M. Renwick, of The
Progressive Corporation, pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

Filed herewith

(32)


(B)

Certification of the Principal Financial
Officer, W. Thomas Forrester, of The
Progressive Corporation, pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

Filed herewith

No other exhibits are required to be filed herewith pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

49