
10-K405
FORM 10-K



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          Washington, D. C.  20549
                                  FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
    /X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1996.
                                     OR
        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
        ______ TO ______.

                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER  0-17781

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SYMANTEC  CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 DELAWARE                      77-0181864
     (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)        Identification No.)

           10201 TORRE AVENUE, CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA 95014-2132 
         (Address of principal executive offices)      (zip code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (408) 253-9600
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
             NONE                                    NONE
    (Title of each class)          (Name of each exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                 COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $0.01 PER SHARE
                            (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                  YES  /X/                 NO  / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filer pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K. /X/

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Symantec common stock on 
June 1, 1996 as reported on the Nasdaq National Market and with respect to 
the Delrina exchangeable stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange:

                               $852,935,049

Number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common 
stock, including 5,272,407 shares of Delrina exchangeable stock, as of June 1, 
1996:

                                54,124,841

                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in 
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held September 25, 
1996 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                       SYMANTEC CORPORATION
                             FORM 10-K
              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1996
                          
                              PART I.

                                                            PAGE
                                                          --------
Item 1.  Business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1

Item 2.  Properties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of 
         Security Holders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16

                              PART II.

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity 
         and Related Stockholder Matters . . . . . . . .     17

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . .     18

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis 
         of Financial Condition and Results 
         of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . .     30

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants 
         on Accounting and Financial 
         Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30

                              PART III.

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the 
         Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     31

Item 11. Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial 
         Owners and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related 
         Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34

                              PART IV.

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
         and Reports on Form 8-K. . . . . . . . . . . . .     35

Signatures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     60



PART I

ITEM 1: BUSINESS.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject 
to risks and uncertainties.  There are several important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the 
forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion.  Readers 
should pay particular attention to the risk factors set forth in this section 
and in the section of this report entitled "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

GENERAL.

Symantec Corporation ("Symantec" or the "Company") develops, markets and 
supports a diversified line of application and system software products 
designed to enhance individual and workgroup productivity as well as manage 
networked computing environments.  Approximately 85% of Symantec's net 
revenues are derived from products that operate on Microsoft Corporation's 
("Microsoft") MS-DOS, Windows or Windows 95 operating systems for IBM and 
IBM-compatible personal computers.  Symantec also offers products for use on 
the Apple Macintosh and IBM OS/2 operating systems.

The Company's predecessor, C&E Software, Inc., a California corporation, and 
that predecessor's operating subsidiary, Symantec Corporation, a California 
corporation, were formed in September 1983 and March 1982, respectively.  The 
Company was incorporated in Delaware in April 1988 in connection with the 
September 1988 reincorporation of the Company's predecessor and its operating 
subsidiary into a single Delaware corporation.

Since Symantec's initial public offering on June 23, 1989, the Company has 
completed acquisitions of the following companies:



All of these acquisitions were accounted for as poolings of interest.  
Accordingly, all financial information has been restated to reflect the 
combined operations of these companies and Symantec with the exception of 
Fast Track, Intec, SLR, MultiScope and Whitewater, which had results of 
operations that were not material to Symantec's consolidated financial 
statements.

Symantec's strategy is to develop and market products that are, or may 
become, leaders in their respective categories, maintain a broad product line 
across multiple operating platforms and develop and market a strong 




product offering for the enterprise or networked computing environment.  
Symantec's early products were primarily productivity applications, such as 
Q&A, a non-programmable database, and Time Line, a sophisticated project 
management program.  In 1989, Symantec expanded its business into utility 
products, initially with Macintosh utilities products, and then into DOS 
utilities in fiscal 1991 with the acquisition of Norton, the developer of 
Norton Utilities and Norton Commander.  In fiscal 1992, Symantec acquired 
DMA, the developer of pcANYWHERE and in fiscal 1993, Symantec acquired 
Certus, the developer of Novi, an anti-virus product that was merged into The 
Norton AntiVirus.  In fiscal 1992 and 1993, Symantec acquired three 
development tools companies (Zortech, Whitewater and MultiScope) and expanded 
its development tools business into the DOS and Windows object-oriented 
programming markets.  In fiscal 1994, Symantec added to its internal 
development of utilities with the acquisition of Fifth Generation.  Also, the 
acquisition of Contact in fiscal 1994 expanded the Company's product line 
with the addition of ACT!, a contact management product.  The acquisition of 
Central Point in fiscal 1995 added a number of desktop and enterprise utility 
products to Symantec's product offerings, including Mac Tools, PC Tools, 
XTree Gold and Central Point Antivirus.  In fiscal 1996, the Company acquired 
Delrina which strengthened the communications segment of the business with 
the addition of WinFax, FormFlow and CommSuite.

During fiscal 1996, the Company sold the assets of Time Line Solutions 
Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary, in order to focus its efforts on 
Symantec's core product offerings.

The Company believes that the prevailing trends in the software industry are 
movements by companies to downsize from mainframes and minicomputers to 
microcomputers; a continuation of the move to more sophisticated operating 
systems such as Windows 95 and Windows NT; a move to networked environments 
of microcomputers; and a move to object-oriented programming among software 
developers.  As a result, Symantec is currently expanding its development of 
network management utilities and applications that support network and 
workgroup computing and is continuing its development of object-oriented 
programming tools.

Symantec continually evaluates its product and corporate strategy and has in 
the past and will in the future undertake organizational changes and product 
and marketing strategy modifications which are designed to maximize market 
penetration, maximize use of limited corporate resources and develop new 
products and product channels.  These frequent organizational changes 
increase the risk that objectives will not be met.  Further, due to the 
uncertain nature of any of these undertakings, there can be no assurance that 
these efforts will be successful or that the Company will realize any benefit 
from these efforts.

While Symantec's diverse product line has tended to lessen fluctuations in 
quarterly net revenues, such fluctuations have occurred recently and are 
likely to occur in the future.  These fluctuations may be caused by a number 
of factors including new product introductions and product upgrades, reduced 
demand for any given product, the market's transition between operating 
systems (including the market's acceptance of and transition to Windows 95 
which could be further influenced by Microsoft's release of a new version of 
Windows NT), seasonality of retail software sales in Europe and the 
transition of organizations from a desktop PC environment to an 
enterprise-wide networked environment and to Internet-based applications.  
Symantec has noted that various large corporate customers have decided to 
postpone or forgo migrating their microcomputer operating systems to Windows 
95 and may ultimately implement Windows NT or another as of yet undetermined 
operating system.  As a result, Symantec's future Windows 95 product revenues 
could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, Symantec's future net 
revenues will depend on Symantec's ability to develop new products which 
operate on Windows 95 and Windows NT or the operating systems that may 
ultimately be accepted by the market place.

Symantec has a 52/53-week fiscal accounting year.  Accordingly, all 
references as of and for the periods ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 
reflect amounts as of and for the periods ended March 29, 1996, March 31, 
1995 and April 1, 1994, respectively.




PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

Symantec's products, comprising both application software and system 
software, are currently organized into the following product groups: advanced 
utilities, security utilities, network/communications utilities, fax, contact 
management, development tools and consumer/productivity applications.  The 
following table summarizes Symantec's principal products by product group and 
the operating system(s) on which they run:







ADVANCED UTILITIES

Advanced Utilities represented approximately 30% of Symantec's revenues in 
fiscal 1996.

THE NORTON UTILITIES/THE NORTON UTILITIES ADMINISTRATOR are a set of "tools" 
designed to address the system-level operations of the Windows, MS-DOS, 
Macintosh and Power Macintosh operating systems.  The Norton Utilities 
product provides disk and data recovery, security, performance optimization, 
system and .ini-file monitoring and preventive maintenance functions.  The 
Norton Utilities can restore the structure of a disk and files under certain 
conditions and can also provide for file de-fragmentation, system operation 
information, file unerasing and other file and system operation improvements. 
 The Norton Utilities Administrator is a network version of The Norton 
Utilities.

THE NORTON UTILITIES FOR WINDOWS 95 is a 32-bit utility that is designed to 
provide continuous system protection and includes an automated and advanced 
set of data and system preparation, protection and recovery tools for Windows 
95 data under Windows 95.  The Norton Utilities for Windows 95 is 
specifically designed to leverage Windows 95 architecture and deliver a true 
32-bit utilities solution.

THE NORTON NAVIGATOR FOR WINDOWS 95 is a set of 32-bit file management tools 
and desktop enhancements for Windows 95 to manage files and move around the 
new desktop in Windows 95.  Integrated with Windows 95, The Norton Navigator 
for Windows 95 is a natural extension of the new operating system, designed 
to enhance speed, functionality and operating convenience.  By extending 
Windows 95's basic capabilities, The Norton Navigator for Windows 95 lets 
users quickly find files and programs and configure their systems to improve 
productivity.

THE NORTON COMMANDER is an MS-DOS shell designed to provide a character-based 
graphical approach and mouse capability for MS-DOS operations such as copy, 
move and delete.  The Norton Commander includes an MCI mail facility, file 
compression and Commander Link and a PC-to-PC file transfer function.  The 
Norton Commander includes a wide range of file viewers, application launching 
functions and a customizable menuing facility.



THE NORTON COMMANDER FOR WINDOWS 95 is a 32-bit utility that is designed to 
provide a character-based graphical approach and mouse capability for Windows 
95 operations such as copy, move and delete.  The Norton Commander for 
Windows 95 includes a wide range of file viewers, application launching 
functions and a customizable menuing facility.  Additional features for the 
Windows 95 version include a variety of network utilities and editor 
associates.

THE NORTON DESKTOP/THE NORTON DESKTOP ADMINISTRATOR/PC TOOLS gives the user 
easy access and maneuverability within the Windows environment by integrating 
the functionality of the Windows' Program Manager and File Manager.  The 
Norton Desktop enables the user to access a number of integrated tools, 
including The Norton Backup, The Norton AntiVirus, Deskedit, 
Unerase-Registered Trademark-, Superfind-TM-, The Norton Disk 
Doctor-Registered Trademark-, SmartErase-TM-, Sleeper-TM-, Batch Builder-TM-, 
Keyfinder-TM- and Icon Editor.  From the integrated file manager, the user 
can also launch, copy, move, view and delete a file or application by 
clicking and dragging icons on the desktop.  The Norton Desktop Administrator 
is a network version of The Norton Desktop.  PC Tools includes 
CrashGuard-TM-, System Consultant-TM-, File Companions-TM-, 
INI-Consultant-TM-, AutoSync-TM-, DiskFix-Registered Trademark- and Optimizer.

MACTOOLS PRO is a disk utility program that uses innovative software 
technology to provide a simple and accessible user interface under the 
Macintosh and Power Macintosh operating systems.  MacTools Pro includes 
Optimizer, Trashback, MacTools Clinic, DiskFix-Registered Trademark-, 
FileFix-TM-, Backup, Undelete, Autocheck and FastCopy-TM-.

THE NORTON NT TOOLS is a set of utilities that combines anti-virus 
protection, powerful file management and the ability to monitor key system 
resources under the Windows NT operating system.  Key features include 
real-time system monitoring and status with System Doctor and System 
Information, protection against viruses on the desktop and over the Internet 
and automatic alert notification of virus definition updates.

SUPERDOUBLER automatically and transparently increases hard disk space for 
the Macintosh and Power Macintosh operating systems through file compression. 
SuperDoubler includes accelerated background copying and deleting for the 
Macintosh and Power Macintosh operating systems.

SUITCASE is a resource management tool for the Macintosh and Power Macintosh 
operating systems.  Suitcase helps organize and access font, DA, sound and 
FKEY resources.

XTREEGOLD is a full featured file manager for MS-DOS and Windows which 
includes full keystroke capability in order to take advantage of its powerful 
shortcuts.

SECURITY UTILITIES

Security Utilities represented approximately 25% of Symantec's revenues in 
fiscal 1996.

THE NORTON ANTIVIRUS/THE NORTON ANTIVIRUS FOR NETWARE/THE NORTON ANTIVIRUS 
FOR WINDOWS 95/CENTRAL POINT ANTIVIRUS/CENTRAL POINT ANTIVIRUS NLM/SYMANTEC 
ANTIVIRUS FOR MACINTOSH (SAM) are programs for the protection, detection and 
elimination of computer viruses under the MS-DOS, Windows, Windows 95, 
Macintosh, Power Macintosh and OS/2 operating systems.  They provide virus 
protection, detection and repair capability, recognize virus-like behavior 
and prevent most known or unknown viruses from infecting a system.  They 
detect viruses and disinfect infected files and disks during normal computer 
use.  They also detect and disinfect floppy boot-track viruses, stealth and 
encrypted viruses and remove active viruses from memory.  The Norton 
AntiVirus for Windows 95 is a full 32-bit virus protection product 
specifically designed for Windows 95.  The Norton AntiVirus for Windows 95 
supports the Windows 95 interface and is designed to prevent viruses with a 
unique, comprehensive, multi-layered line of defense that combines scanning, 
virus sensing and inoculation.  The Norton AntiVirus is also available for 
Novell's operating system as a NetWare Loadable Module ("NLM") and is known 
as The Norton AntiVirus for NetWare.  The NLM can scan MS-DOS, Windows and 
Macintosh file types. 

SYMANTEC ANTIVIRUS FOR MACINTOSH (SAM) ADMINISTRATOR is an application which 
provides centralized network distribution and maintenance of the Symantec 
AntiVirus for Macintosh.  Its configurable network installation and upgrade 
capabilities enable administrators to protect remote networked Macintosh 
systems.

THE NORTON BACKUP is a hard disk backup program.  The Norton Backup provides 
automatic program installation and configuration, point and shoot file 
selection and user-level options.  Both a MS-DOS and Windows version of the 
product is available.

THE NORTON DISKLOCK protects PC and Macintosh computers from unwanted 
intrusion.  The Norton DiskLock provides boot protection to prevent 
unauthorized users from accessing a PC's hard disk drive.  In addition to 
full 



disk access control, The Norton DiskLock allows for basic password protection 
and selective locking to secure individual files or folders in a shared 
environment.  It also provides SpeedCrypt for especially sensitive data and 
is available in MS-DOS, Windows, Macintosh and Power Macintosh versions.

THE NORTON DISKLOCK ADMINISTRATOR makes it easy to configure, distribute and 
monitor workstation security from one central location as well as configure 
and distribute security for all Macintoshes on the network remotely.  It also 
gathers the audit logs for each workstation so security can be monitored from 
one central database.

THE NORTON YOUR EYES ONLY offers comprehensive 32-bit security designed 
specifically for the Windows 95 operating system, "on-the-fly" automatic 
encryption using RSA's public key encryption technology, optional access 
control during boot-up to prevent unauthorized access to data on the hard 
disk, configurable automatic time-out blanking of screen if the computer 
system is idle for a specified period of time and the administrator version 
provides configuration, distribution and management for an entire network 
from a central location

NETWORK/COMMUNICATIONS UTILITIES

Network/Communications Utilities represented approximately 20% of Symantec's 
revenues in fiscal 1996.

THE NORTON PCANYWHERE offers reliable, fast and flexible PC-to-PC remote 
computing via serial or modem connection.  The Norton pcANYWHERE lets the 
user remotely control one PC from the keyboard of another PC.  The offsite 
remote PC, laptop or PC terminal controls the operation of the distant host 
PC.  The software allows the user to run any MS-DOS or Windows application 
remotely, transfer files and perform other data operations.  In addition to 
allowing a remote user to run a distant PC,  The Norton pcANYWHERE optionally 
allows users at the host (distant) machine to view the operations being 
conducted from the remote site.  This makes The Norton pcANYWHERE ideal for 
support of users as a remote helpdesk function for both problem solving and 
application training.

THE NORTON PCANYWHERE32 FOR WINDOWS 95 & NT is a full 32-bit remote computing 
product specifically designed for Windows 95 and Windows NT.  The Norton 
pcANYWHERE32 allows a user, from any location, to quickly and easily access 
applications and from any Windows 95, Windows NT or DOS environment.

THE NORTON PCANYWHERE ACCESS SERVER allows network administrators to 
centrally manage multiple remote control sessions.  The Norton pcANYWHERE 
Access Server provides mobile users with simple, efficient and secure access 
to networks.

THE NORTON ADMINISTRATOR FOR NETWORKS is a single solution to reduce network 
management costs substantially through the automation of key manually 
intensive local area network (LAN) administration tasks.  Its key features 
include full integration of hardware and software inventory, software 
distribution, license monitoring and metering and the automation of costly 
LAN administration tasks.  The Norton Administrator for Networks supports 
major operating systems and provides the ability to add in The Norton 
AntiVirus, The Norton pcANYWHERE remote control technology, The Norton 
Utilities Administrator and The Norton DiskLock Administrator.

THE NORTON ADMINISTRATOR SUITE/THE NORTON ADMINISTRATOR SUITE FOR WINDOWS 95 
& NT is a comprehensive, cost-effective solution for companies managing a LAN 
with less than 1,000 nodes.  Its key features include hardware and software 
metering and distribution, desktop virus protection, desktop configuration 
management and remote control.  The Norton Administrator Suite is compatible 
with Windows, Windows 95 and Windows NT.

WINCOMM PRO for Windows features predefined links to popular on-line 
services, including MCI Mail, CompuServe, GEnie and AT&T Mail and can be used 
to connect to bulletin boards, mainframes and remote PCs.  WinComm PRO 
incorporates a powerful scripting language that allows users to completely 
customize and automate communications sessions and features an on-line virus 
detector that checks for over 300 common viruses as files are downloaded.

WINCOMM FOR WINDOWS 95 allows users to connect to hundreds of bulletin board 
systems and popular on-line services such as CompuServe. It supports the most 
popular file transfer protocols, terminal emulations and modems.  WinComm for 
Windows 95 includes user definable columns and rows, support for sound and a 
graphical interface format viewer to view files as they are downloaded.  
Other features include virus detection, a host mode, a Backscroll Buffer, 
split screen capability and a PKZIP manager to conserve valuable disk space.

DELRINA COMMSUITE for Windows is a retail product that includes both WinFax 
PRO and WinComm PRO, integrating fax and data communications functionality.  
Delrina CommSuite allows both fax communications and data 



communications software to address the same fax modem hardware without the 
technical difficulties that normally occur when fax and communications 
software are operated simultaneously.

DELRINA COMMSUITE FOR WINDOWS 95 combines WinFax PRO, WinComm PRO, Cyberjack 
and TalkWorks into one economical suite.  Specifically designed for Windows 
95, the suite enables users to perform true multitasking and multithreading, 
allowing them to send and receive faxes, voice mail, e-mail and pager 
messages completely in the background.  Other features include drag and drop 
interface, easy-to-use help wizards, long filenames, MAP/TAPI support and 
UNIMODEM.  Delrina CommSuite  for Windows 95 is compatible with Microsoft 
Exchange and enables users to send and receive Internet e-mail.  It provides 
voice and telephone capabilities that enable a PC to perform as a 
full-featured answering machine and advanced telephone.  Finally, Delrina 
CommBar provides users instant access to the status of all communications 
activities.

DELRINA COMMSUITE FOR NETWORKS is the network version of Delrina CommSuite 
and combines the network version of WinFax PRO with a network version of 
WinComm PRO.  This product allows network users to utilize the same fax modem 
hardware for both network faxing and network data communications.

FAX
Fax represented approximately 10% of Symantec's revenues in fiscal 1996.

WINFAX PRO for Windows contains features and enhancements, including a 
streamlined drag-and-drop interface, a "customizable" phone book and an 
enhanced viewer which enables users to "clean up" faxes or quickly rotate any 
faxes that have been received upside down.  WinFax PRO combines advanced 
faxing features such as functionality for mobile users and integration with 
popular e-mail systems.  The fourth generation of WinFax PRO also includes 
binary file transfer and "Microsoft at Work" capability which enables users 
with a class 1 modem to transmit not just images of documents but the actual 
working files themselves.

WINFAX PRO FOR WINDOWS 95 allows users to send, receive and manage faxes in 
Windows 95.  WinFax PRO for Windows 95 provides background faxing, which 
allows users to continue working on other applications while sending a fax 
and enhanced file compression, which increases the speed at which faxes are 
transmitted.  Other features include "Delrina Pager," which allows a computer 
to page a user to alert him or her of incoming voice and fax messages and 
"call identify," which allows a user to view the incoming fax or phone number 
on the user's computer screen before answering the phone.  In order to use 
the call identify feature of WinFax PRO for Windows 95, users must subscribe 
to their local telephone company's service.

WINFAX PRO FOR NETWORKS is the network version of WinFax PRO.  While LANs 
have become widespread in many organizations, the Company believes that only 
a small percentage of this installed base has a network fax system.  WinFax 
PRO for Networks is a cost-effective, flexible and expandable solution that 
provides multi-user access to a network's fax modem resources in an efficient 
and controlled fashion.  WinFax PRO for Networks is designed to work with 
popular network operating systems, including Novell NetWare, Novell NetWare 
Lite, Artisoft LANtastic and Microsoft Windows for Workgroups, without the 
need for a dedicated fax server.  In addition, WinFax PRO for Networks offers 
comprehensive support for the most common e-mail packages, enabling users to 
receive faxes directly to their e-mail address.

WINFAX LITE AND DOSFAX LITE are OEM versions of the retail fax software 
products for Windows and DOS users, respectively, and have been bundled by 
over 100 PC and fax modem manufacturers and software vendors.  These products 
offer basic fax functionality and can be upgraded to full-featured retail 
products.

DOSFAX PRO AND DELRINA FAXPRO FOR MACINTOSH are the DOS and Macintosh 
versions, respectively of WinFax PRO.  These products allow users to send, 
receive and manage all fax activities without interruption.

DELRINA NET SATISFAXTION is a network fax product focused on the larger 
corporate marketplace.  While WinFax PRO for Networks focuses on the 
workgroup or departmental level, Delrina NET SatisFAXtion is focused on the 
enterprise.  Delrina NET SatisFAXtion provides enterprise users with the same 
capabilities as WinFax PRO for Networks.  Requiring a dedicated fax server 
computer, NET SatisFAXtion delivers security, auditing and detailed billing 
features required in the enterprise environment.



CONTACT MANAGEMENT

Contact Management represented approximately 10% of Symantec's revenues in 
fiscal 1996.

ACT! is an easy-to-use contact database with a graphical activity schedule, a 
full-featured word processor and a report generator. ACT! manages and 
integrates a user's contacts, calendar and communication through the use of 
integrated e-mail messaging.  ACT! runs on the Windows, MS-DOS, Macintosh, 
Newton, Psion, Lotus Notes and HP Palmtop operating systems.

ACT! MOBILE LINK is an add-on product to ACT! for Windows.  ACT! Mobile Link 
automates communication between individuals in the office and mobile 
professionals by providing the ability to remotely access and exchange 
contact information.  It supports data maintained centrally as well as using 
e-mail to synchronize two or more users of the same database and calendar.

DEVELOPMENT TOOLS

Development Tools represented approximately 5% of Symantec's revenues in 
fiscal 1996.

SYMANTEC C++ is a set of professional programming tools for C++ and provides 
support for developing MS-DOS, Windows, Macintosh, Power Macintosh and OS/2 
applications.  The MS-DOS and Windows versions include enhanced 32-bit 
development support, including 32-bit Microsoft Foundation Classes on CD-ROM. 
It supports full template debugging and features a hierarchical project 
management system with full dependency tracking.  The Macintosh version 
includes a new version of THINK Class Library (TLC 2.0), which allows 
developers to write applications that are portable to PowerPC 
microprocessor-based Macintoshes.  Symantec C++ for Macintosh also includes 
Bedrock exception-handling and THINK Inspector that allows quick debugging.

SYMANTEC C++ FOR WINDOWS 95 & NT is a powerful development system that 
provides tools for developing applications for Windows 95 and Windows NT.  
Symantec C++ for Windows 95 and Windows NT provides the user with a way to 
architect, navigate, build and debug Windows 95 and Windows NT applications.

SYMANTEC CAFE for the Macintosh and Power Macintosh systems is a way to 
create Java applications and applets that add dynamic functionality to World 
Wide Web pages.  It features a native Java compiler that allows builds of 
Java programs.  Symantec Cafe also includes a full suite of integrated tools 
for Java Development, including a project manager, editor, browser, graphical 
debugger and applet viewer.

SYMANTEC CAFE FOR WINDOWS 95 features a native Java compiler that allows 
builds of Java programs.  It provides a Class Browser, an introduction to 
Java programming book and over 35 sample applets that help developers get 
started quickly using Java in their web pages.  In addition, Symantec Cafe 
for Windows 95 provides a fully integrated graphical debugger for Java, 
allowing developers to do source level debugging of their Java standalone 
applications or applets that are embedded inside an HTML web page.

FORMFLOW is a LAN-based workflow automation product that works in a 
heterogeneous enterprise environment supporting multi-vendor e-mail, 
operating systems and databases.  FormFlow is unique in using the binary file 
transfer capabilities of WinFax PRO to enable users to send actual data files 
rather than the traditional bitmap images normally associated with 
conventional faxing.  As a result, customers are currently able to create 
viable and affordable alternative electronic communications solutions.  The 
product supports leading network-based e-mail systems, including Microsoft 
Mail, Lotus cc:Mail and Notes and Banyan eMail.  FormFlow also comes with a 
tracking application to let users keep up-to-date on the status of the forms 
routed across the network.

THINK C provides users with an integrated set of tools, including a C 
compiler, to develop software in C for the Macintosh.  The product consists 
of five main components: a text editor that allows a programmer to enter and 
modify text files of statements in human-readable C programming language 
(source code); a compiler that translates files of statements in C source 
code into binary instruction modules that a computer can execute (object 
code); a linker that enables separate object code modules to be combined to 
form a complete program; a source level debugger to support the testing of 
software while it is being developed; and a project manager that automates 
the management of all of these processes.



CONSUMER/PRODUCTIVITY APPLICATIONS

Consumer/Productivity Applications represented less than 5% of Symantec's 
revenues in fiscal 1996.

Q&A for Windows and DOS is an easy-to-use, integrated database management and 
word processing program with sophisticated report generation capabilities.  
Q&A also has a natural language interface that allows the user to request 
reports from a database using plain English sentences instead of database 
commands.

CYBERJACK  organizes the Internet into a manageable and usable information 
resource through its Guidebook technology and full complement of Internet 
tools.  It is fully integrated with Windows 95 and provides users with  
full-featured client applications, including a Web browser, USENet News 
reader, FTP file transfer, Internet chatting sessions, e-mail via Microsoft 
Exchange, search capabilities with Gopher and Archie and Image and Zip 
managers with built-in Norton AntiVirus.

SALES, INTERNATIONAL SALES AND CUSTOMER SUPPORT. Symantec markets its 
products worldwide utilizing a multi-channel strategy of direct sales and 
indirect sales through independent software distributors, major retail chains 
and resellers.

SALES

Symantec utilizes a direct sales force that encourages end users to adopt 
Symantec's products as corporate standards.  The direct sales force focuses 
primarily on site license sales where a license for multiple workstations is 
sold to a customer at a negotiated price. The sales cycle with respect to 
site license sales may be lengthy and may be subject to integration and 
acceptance by the customer. The Company also employs an indirect sales force 
that works closely with its major distributor and reseller accounts to manage 
the flow of orders, inventory levels and sell-through to retail chains as 
well as promotions and other selling activities.  At March 31, 1996, Symantec 
had approximately 130 people in its direct and indirect sales force.

Symantec maintains distribution relationships with major independent 
distributors.  These distributors stock Symantec's products in inventory for 
redistribution to independent dealers, consultants and other resellers.  
Symantec also maintains relationships with major retailers, including 
CompUSA, Computer City and Egghead Discount Software.  Symantec markets to 
these retailers either directly or through independent distributors.  
Additionally, Symantec sells product upgrades and certain of its products to 
end users through direct mail campaigns.

Approximately 37% of Symantec's net revenues in the year ended March 31, 1996 
were derived from Symantec's two largest distributors. Ingram Micro D 
represented 27%, 22% and 18% of Symantec's net revenues in fiscal 1996, 1995 
and 1994, respectively, while Merisel represented 10%, 11% and 13% of 
Symantec's net revenues in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  
Agreements with distributors are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated 
by either party without cause.  Such distributors are not within the control 
of Symantec, are not obligated to purchase products and may also represent 
other vendors' product lines.  There can be no assurance that these 
distributors will continue their current relationships with Symantec on the 
same basis, or that they will not give higher priority to the sale of other 
products, which could include products of competitors.  Additionally, certain 
distributors and resellers have experienced financial difficulties in the 
past.  There can be no assurance that distributors that account for 
significant sales of the Company will not experience financial difficulties 
in the future.  Any such problems could lead to reduced sales and could 
adversely affect operating results of the Company.  There can be no assurance 
that Symantec will be able to continue to obtain adequate distribution 
channels for all of its products in the future.

Symantec's return policy allows its distributors, subject to certain 
limitations, to return purchased products in exchange for new products or for 
credit towards future purchases.  End users may return products through 
dealers and distributors within a reasonable period from the date of purchase 
for a full refund, and retailers may return older versions of products.  
Various distributors and resellers may have different return policies that 
may negatively impact the level of products which are returned to Symantec.  
Product returns occur when the Company introduces upgrades and new versions 
of products or when distributors order too much product.  In addition, 
competitive factors often require the Company to offer rights of return for 
products that distributors or retail stores are unable to sell.  Symantec has 
experienced, and may experience in the future, significant increases in 
product returns above historical levels from customers of acquired companies 
after an acquisition is completed.  Symantec prepares detailed analyses of 
historical return rates when estimating anticipated returns and maintains 
reserves for product returns.  In addition to detailed historical return 
rates, the Company's estimation of return reserves takes into consideration 
upcoming product upgrades, current market conditions, customer inventory 
balances and any other 



known factors that could impact anticipated returns.  Based upon returns 
experienced, the Company's estimates have been materially accurate.  The 
impact of actual returns on net revenues, net of such provisions, has not had 
a material effect on the Company's liquidity as the returns typically result 
in the issuance of credit towards future purchases as opposed to cash 
payments to the distributors.  However, there can be no assurance that future 
returns will not exceed the reserves established by the Company or that 
future returns will not have a material adverse effect on the operating 
results of the Company.

Symantec's marketing activities include advertising in trade, technical and 
business publications, cooperative marketing with distributors, resellers and 
dealers, periodic direct mailings to existing and prospective end users and 
participation in trade and computer shows.  Additionally, the Company 
typically offers two types of rebate programs, volume incentive rebates and 
rebates to end users.  Volume incentive rebates are made available to 
Symantec's largest distributors and resellers whereby the distributor or 
reseller earns a rebate based upon their purchases or the volume of product 
they sell to end users.  Volume incentive rebates are accrued when revenue is 
recorded.  The amount of these rebates as a percentage of net revenues has 
been consistent for all periods presented and has not had a material impact 
on the Company's liquidity.  The Company also offers rebates from time to 
time to end users who purchase the Company's products.  End user rebates are 
accrued when revenue is recorded.  These end user rebates have been offered 
on a limited basis and have not been material to the Company's results of 
operations or liquidity in fiscal 1996, 1995 or 1994.

INTERNATIONAL SALES

International revenues represented approximately 32%, 31% and 29% of 
Symantec's net revenues in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  At 
March 31, 1996, Symantec had approximately 125 sales, marketing and related 
personnel in its international sales organization.

The majority of Symantec's net revenues from certain European regions are 
derived from sales by affiliates of Symantec's major United States 
distributors.  In other countries, Symantec sells its products through 
authorized distributors.  In some countries, these distributors are 
restricted to specified territories.  Symantec typically adapts products for 
local markets, including translating the documentation and software where 
necessary, and prepares comprehensive marketing programs for each local 
market.

Symantec has established marketing offices in Australia, Brazil, Canada, 
France, Germany, Holland, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, 
Russia, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.  These 
local offices facilitate Symantec's marketing and distribution in 
international markets.  The Company's international operations are subject to 
certain risks common to international operations, such as government 
regulations, import restrictions, currency fluctuations, repatriation 
restrictions, seasonality in the retail software market in Europe and, in 
certain jurisdictions, reduced protection for the Company's copyrights and 
trademarks. Information with respect to international operations and export 
sales may be found in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Part IV, Item 14 of this Form 10-K.

CUSTOMER SUPPORT

During the quarter ended March 31, 1994, Symantec introduced a new product 
support program that provides a wide variety of free and fee-based technical 
support services to its customers.  Symantec provides its customers with free 
support via electronic and automated services as well as 90 days 
complimentary free telephone support for selected products.  Symantec accrues 
the cost of providing this free support at the time of product sale.  In 
addition, Symantec offers both individual users and corporate customers a 
variety of fee-based options designed to meet their individual technical 
support requirements.  Fee-based technical support services did not generate 
material revenues in fiscal 1996, 1995 or 1994 and are not expected to 
generate material revenues in the near future.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITIONS. 

Symantec uses a multiple products sourcing strategy that includes internal 
development, acquisitions of product lines or companies and licensing from 
third-parties.  Development of new products and enhancement of existing 
products are typically performed by Symantec in individual product groups.  
Each group's responsibilities include design, development, documentation and 
quality assurance.  Outside contractors are used for certain aspects of the 
product development process.

Symantec uses strategic acquisitions, as necessary, to provide certain 
technology and products for its overall product strategy.  The Company has 
completed a number of acquisitions of companies and products and expects to 
acquire 



other companies and products in the future.  In addition to the significant 
business risks associated with acquisitions, which include the successful 
combination of the companies in an efficient and timely manner, the 
coordination of research and development and sales efforts, the retention of 
key personnel and the integration of the acquired products, Symantec 
frequently incurs significant acquisition expenses for legal, accounting and 
financial advisory services and other costs related to the combination of the 
companies.  In the past these costs have had, and may, with respect to 
possible future acquisitions have, a significant adverse impact on the 
Company's profitability and financial resources.  There can be no assurance 
that any of the Company's acquisitions will be successfully assimilated into 
the Company's operations.  In addition, the comparison of future Company 
revenues, expenses and profitability to historical revenues, expenses and 
profitability on a pooled basis may be adversely impacted by the elimination 
of duplicative products and operating activities.

The Company is devoting substantial efforts to the development of software 
products that are designed to operate on Windows 95 and Windows NT, as well 
as the development of products for networked operating environments and 
network management.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of software 
development projects, there can be no assurance that any products currently 
being developed by Symantec will be technologically successful, that any 
resulting products will achieve market acceptance or that the Company will be 
effective in competing with products currently in the market.  There can also 
be no assurance that Symantec will elect to develop software products for the 
operating environments that ultimately are accepted by the marketplace, 
including Windows 95 and Windows NT.  Development for networked operating 
environments is more complex than development for the desktop and requires a 
higher level of research and development expenditures.  As a consequence of 
the complexity of developing products for networked operating environments 
and operating systems using graphical user interfaces and Symantec's emphasis 
on technical excellence, Symantec has experienced delays in the development 
and delivery of its products and is likely to experience such delays in the 
future.  Although such delays have undoubtedly had a material adverse effect 
on Symantec's business, Symantec is not able to quantify the magnitude of net 
revenues that were deferred or lost as a result of any particular delay 
because Symantec is not able to predict the amount of net revenues that would 
have been obtained had the original development expectations been met.  Due 
to the inherent uncertainties of software development projects, Symantec does 
not generally disclose or announce the specific expected shipment date of the 
Company's product introductions.

Symantec's total research and development expenses were approximately $94.7 
million, $70.7 million and $68.1 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively.  Research and development expenditures are charged to 
operations as incurred.  The increase in research and development expenses in 
fiscal 1996 was principally due to the development of products for the 
Windows 95 operating system. Financial accounting rules requiring 
capitalization of certain software development costs have not materially 
affected the Company, except for amounts capitalized by Delrina prior to its 
acquisition by Symantec.  Delrina did not capitalize any software development 
costs in fiscal 1996 and capitalized $6.3 million and $2.6 million in 
software development costs in fiscal years 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The 
related amortization expense was $5.6 million, $4.0 million and $1.9 million 
in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Elements of certain Company products are licensed from third-party developers.

COMPETITION.

The microcomputer software market is intensely competitive and is subject to 
rapid changes in both technology and the strategic direction of major 
microcomputer hardware manufacturers and operating system providers.  The 
Company's competitiveness depends on its ability to enhance its existing 
products and to offer new products on a timely basis.  The Company has more 
limited resources than certain of its competitors and must restrict its 
product development efforts to a relatively small number of projects.  
Further, the Company has less experience in the enterprise/network market 
than many of it competitors and fewer relationships and less experience with 
systems integrators and other third-party vendors that provide consulting and 
implementation services necessary to sell many of these products.

Price competition is significant in the microcomputer business software 
market and may continue to increase and become even more significant in the 
future, resulting in reduced profit margins.  Site and enterprise-wide 
licensing (permitting large volume customers to copy a program and its 
documentation for use within a particular site or within an enterprise at 
discounted prices), discount pricing for large volume distributors and 
retailers, product bundling promotions (whereby multiple products of one or 
more vendors are bundled and sold together at a price significantly 




more attractive to the purchaser than buying each product separately) and 
competitive upgrade programs are forms of price competition that have become 
more prevalent.  Additionally, should competitive pressures in the industry 
increase, Symantec may have to increase its spending on sales and marketing 
as a percentage of net revenues, resulting in lower profit margins.

With the introduction of Microsoft's Windows 95 and Windows NT operating 
systems, the Company's ability to generate revenue from many of its current 
products will depend on its ability to develop new versions and enhancements 
of those products in a timely manner for the Windows 95 and Windows NT 
operating systems and/or other operating systems that may gain market 
acceptance.  The Company has experienced delays in the development and 
delivery of its products and may experience such delays in the future, which 
would result in a loss of competitiveness of the Company's products and could 
adversely affect the Company and its financial results.

Operating system vendors such as Microsoft have added features to new 
versions of their products that provide some of the same functionality 
traditionally offered in Symantec's utility products.  Symantec believes this 
trend may continue.  Microsoft may incorporate advanced utilities and other 
features in future versions of Windows 95, Windows NT or other operating 
systems that may decrease the demand for certain of the Company's products, 
including those currently under development.  A number of software developers 
have integrated antivirus capabilities into their internet products.  While 
Symantec plans to continue to improve its utility products with a view toward 
providing enhanced functionality over what may be provided in operating 
systems, there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that 
such improved products will be accepted by software users.  Symantec will 
also attempt to work with operating system vendors in an effort to make its 
utility products compatible with those operating systems, yet differentiate 
those utility products from features included in the operating systems.  
However, there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful.

Because of the breadth of its product line, the Company competes with at 
least one product from many of the major independent software vendors, 
including Borland International, Inc. ("Borland"), DataStorm, Inc. 
("DataStorm"), DCA, Inc. ("DCA"), ELAN Software Corporation ("ELAN"), 
International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Intel Corporation 
("Intel"), JetForm Corporation ("JetForm"), McAfee Associates, Inc. 
("McAfee"), Microcom, Inc. ("Microcom"), Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft"), 
Norton-Lambert Corporation ("Norton-Lambert"), Novell, Inc. ("Novell"), 
Phoenix Technologies Ltd. ("Phoenix"), TouchStone Software Corporation 
("TouchStone"), Traveling Software, Inc. ("Traveling Software"), Starfish 
Software, Inc. ("Starfish") and SofNet, Inc. ("SofNet").

For example, The Norton Administrator for Networks competes with Microsoft 
System Management Server from Microsoft and LanDesk from Intel.  The Norton 
Utilities and The Norton Backup compete with operating systems, such as 
Microsoft's MS-DOS, IBM's DOS and Novell's DR-DOS, which offer file recovery, 
anti-virus and backup features as well as products from independent utilities 
vendors.  The Norton AntiVirus and Central Point Antivirus compete with 
PC-cillin 95 from TouchStone and Viruscan from McAfee.  Symantec's The Norton 
pcANYWHERE competes mainly with Laplink from Traveling Software, Carbon Copy 
from Microcom, Close Up from Norton Lambert and NetRemote from McAfee.  ACT! 
competes with Lotus Organizer for Windows from IBM, GoldMine from ELAN, 
Sidekick from Starfish and many other personal information managers produced 
by various software developers.  Symantec C++ competes with C++ compilers 
from Borland and Microsoft.  The Norton Desktop for Windows and PC Tools for 
Windows compete with Dashboard from Starfish.  Delrina WinFax PRO competes 
with products offered by Phoenix, Traveling Software and SofNet, as well as 
Microsoft's Windows 95 operating system.  WinComm and Delrina CommSuite 
compete with DataStorm's ProComm and DCA, Inc.'s Crosstalk.  FormFlow 
competes with products offered by JetForm, Novell, IBM and Microsoft.  In 
addition, these and other Company products compete less directly with a 
number of other products that offer levels of functionality different from 
those offered by Symantec's products or that were designed for a somewhat 
different group of end users.

Symantec also competes with microcomputer hardware manufacturers that develop 
their own software products.  Further, Symantec competes with other 
microcomputer software companies for access to the channels of retail 
distribution and for the attention of customers at the retail level and in 
corporate accounts.  Finally, Symantec competes with other software companies 
in its efforts to acquire products or companies and to publish software 
developed by third parties.  Symantec believes that, in the next few years, 
competition in the industry will intensify as most major software companies 
expand their product lines into additional product categories.  Some of the 
Company's competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and 
technological resources than Symantec.



Due to the rapid change in software distribution technology as demonstrated 
by the increase in software distributed through the Internet, there can be no 
assurance that Symantec will be able to develop an effective method of 
distributing its software products utilizing each of the available 
distribution channels or that Symantec will develop distribution channels for 
those channels which are ultimately accepted by the marketplace.  The 
presence of new channels could adversely impact existing channels and/or 
product pricing, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's 
net revenues as the Company moves to new channels.

MANUFACTURING AND BACKLOG.

Symantec's product development organization produces a set of master 
diskettes and documentation for each product.  Most of Symantec's domestic 
manufacturing is performed by outside contractors under the supervision of 
Symantec's manufacturing organization.  Purchasing of most raw materials and 
fulfillment of most orders is done by Symantec personnel in Symantec's 
Sunnyvale, California facility.  The manufacturing steps that are 
subcontracted to outside organizations include the duplication of diskettes 
and CD-ROM's, printing of documentation materials and assembly of the final 
package.  Symantec performs diskette duplication and assembly of the final 
package in its Dublin, Ireland manufacturing facility for most products 
distributed outside of the United States, Canada and Latin America.

Symantec is often able to acquire materials on a volume-discount basis and 
has multiple sources of supply for certain materials.  To date, Symantec has 
not experienced any material difficulties or delays in production of its 
software and related documentation and packaging.  However, shortages may 
occur in the future.  For example, shortages of certain materials may occur 
when Microsoft introduces new operating systems.

Symantec normally ships products within one week after receiving an order.  
Thus, Symantec does not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of 
future performance.

PRODUCT PROTECTION.

Symantec regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of 
copyright, patent and trademark laws and license agreements in an attempt to 
protect its rights.  Despite these precautions, it may be possible for 
unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of Symantec's products or to 
obtain and use information that Symantec regards as proprietary.  All of 
Symantec's products are protected by copyright, and Symantec has several 
patents and patent applications pending.  However, existing patent and 
copyright laws afford limited practical protection.  In addition, the laws of 
some foreign countries do not protect Symantec's proprietary rights in its 
products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.  Symantec's 
products are not copy protected.

As the number of software products in the industry increases and the 
functionality of these products further overlap, Symantec believes that 
software developers will become increasingly subject to infringement claims.  
This risk is potentially greater for companies, such as Symantec, that obtain 
certain of their products through publishing agreements or acquisitions, 
since they have less direct control over the development of those products.

In addition, an increasing number of patents are being issued that are 
potentially applicable to software, and allegations of patent infringement 
are becoming increasingly common in the software industry.  It is impossible 
to ascertain all possible patent infringement claims because new patents are 
being issued continually, the subject of patent applications is confidential 
until a patent is issued, and it may not be apparent even from a patent that 
has already been issued whether it is potentially applicable to a particular 
software product.  This increases the risk that Symantec's products may be 
subject to claims of patent infringement.  Although such claims may 
ultimately prove to be without merit, they are time consuming and expensive 
to defend.  Symantec has been involved in disputes claiming patent 
infringement in the past and may be involved in such disputes in the future.  
If Symantec is alleged to infringe one or more patents, it may choose to 
litigate the claim and/or seek an appropriate license.  If litigation were to 
commence, a license were not available on reasonable terms or if another 
party were found to have a valid patent claim against Symantec, it could have 
a material adverse effect on Symantec.

SEASONALITY.

While Symantec's diverse product line has tended to lessen fluctuations in 
quarterly net revenues, these fluctuations have occurred recently and are 
likely to occur in the future.  These fluctuations may be caused by a number 
of factors, including the timing of announcements and releases of new or 
enhanced versions of its products and product upgrades, the introduction of 
competitive products by existing or new competitors, reduced demand for any 
given product, seasonality in the retail software market in Europe, the 
market's transition between operating systems 



and the transition from a desktop PC environment to an enterprise-wide 
environment.  These factors may cause significant fluctuations in net 
revenues and, accordingly, operating results.

EMPLOYEES.

As of March 31, 1996, Symantec employed approximately 2,200 people, including 
1,100 in sales, marketing and related staff activities, 700 in product 
development and 400 in management, manufacturing, administration and finance. 
 None of the employees is represented by a labor union, and Symantec has 
experienced no work stoppages.  Symantec believes that its employee relations 
are good.

Competition in recruiting personnel in the software industry is intense.  
Symantec believes that its future success will depend in part on its ability 
to recruit and retain highly skilled management, marketing and technical 
personnel.




ITEM 2:PROPERTIES.

Symantec's principal locations, all of which are leased, are as follows:



Symantec's principal administrative and sales and marketing facility, as well 
as certain research and development and support facilities, are located in 
Cupertino, California.  The Company leases a number of additional facilities 
for marketing and research and development in the United States and for 
marketing in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan and 
Canada.  Symantec believes its facilities are adequate for its current needs 
and additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate 
any expansion of its operations.



ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Information with respect to this Item may be found in Note 11 of Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 14 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

On approximately March 26, 1996, the Company's stockholders were sent a proxy 
statement requesting a vote on approval of the 1996 Equity Incentive Plan 
(the "Plan"). (See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
Part IV, Item 14 of this Form 10-K). The Plan was approved by the 
stockholders at a special meeting held at Symantec's headquarters on May 14, 
1996.  20,950,968 shares were voted for approval of the Plan, 17,117,901 
shares were voted against approval of the Plan, and 167,155 shares abstained 
from voting.




PART II

ITEM 5:MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

   Symantec's common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq National Market 
under the Nasdaq symbol "SYMC" since the Company's initial public offering on 
June 23, 1989.  The high and low closing sales prices set forth below are as 
reported on the Nasdaq National Market.



   Delrina exchangeable stock has been traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange 
under the symbol "DE" since the acquisition of Delrina by Symantec on 
November 22, 1995.  The high and low closing sales prices set forth below are 
in Canadian dollars as reported on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Delrina 
exchangeable stock is exchangeable at the option of the stockholders on a 
one-for-one basis into Symantec common stock. 

                    Fiscal 1996
            -------------------
            Mar. 31,   Dec. 31,
                1996       1995
            --------   --------
            (In Canadian dollars)
High         $31.00     $37.25
Low           16.50      29.38

As of March 31, 1996, there were approximately 950 stockholders of record, 
including approximately 50 holders of record of Delrina exchangeable shares.  
The Company has never paid cash dividends on its stock with the exception of 
cash distributions to stockholders of acquired companies.  Symantec 
anticipates that it will continue to retain its earnings to finance the 
growth of its business.  In addition, the Company's bank line of credit and 
outstanding convertible subordinated debentures limit the payment of cash 
dividends on common stock (See Notes 4 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 14 of this Form 10-K).




ITEM 6:SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

   The following selected financial data is qualified in its entirety by and 
should be read in conjunction with the more detailed consolidated financial 
statements and related notes included elsewhere herein.  During fiscal 1996, 
Symantec acquired Delrina Corporation ("Delrina") in a transaction accounted 
for as a pooling of interests.  All financial information has been restated 
to reflect the combined operations of Symantec and Delrina.  Additional 
acquisitions accounted for as poolings of interest include Intec Systems 
Corporation, Central Point Software, Inc. and SLR Systems, Inc. in fiscal 
1995, Fifth Generation Systems, Inc. and Contact Software International, Inc. 
during fiscal 1994, Certus International Corporation, MultiScope, Inc., The 
Whitewater Group, Inc. and Symantec (UK) Ltd. during fiscal 1993, and Zortech 
Ltd., Dynamic Microprocessor Associates, Inc. and Leonard Development Group 
in fiscal 1992.  The Company has never paid cash dividends on its stock with 
the exception of distributions to stockholders of acquired companies.

FIVE YEAR SUMMARY






ITEM 7:MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY EFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject 
to significant risks and uncertainties.  There are several important factors 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results 
and percentages and results anticipated by the forward-looking statements 
contained in the following discussion.  Such factors and risks include, but 
are not limited to, competition in the application and enterprise software 
industry, including price and product feature competition, the introduction 
of new products by existing or new competitors, the economic environment, 
including government and corporate spending patterns, dependence on 
distributors and the emergence of new distribution channels, including the 
Internet, consumer acceptance of operating systems and the positioning of the 
Company's products in these markets, the timing and consumer acceptance of 
new or upgraded products, the ability to develop, market, support and acquire 
new products in an environment of rapidly changing technology and operating 
systems and the cost of such activities, acquisition risks, including 
increased costs and uncertain benefits and the ability to effectively 
integrate operations of acquired companies and manage growth, seasonality in 
the retail software market in Europe and risks associated with international 
operations, including currency conversion, taxes and other legal 
restrictions.  The release and subsequent customer acceptance of current or 
upgraded versions of Windows 95 and Windows NT are particularly important 
events that increase the uncertainty and will likely increase the volatility 
of Symantec's results over the next twelve months.  In addition, the Company 
operates in a complex legal environment where, for example, an increasing 
number of patents are being issued that are potentially applicable to 
software, and allegations of patent infringement are becoming increasingly 
common in the software industry.

OVERVIEW

Symantec develops, markets and supports a diversified line of application and 
system software products designed to enhance individual and workgroup 
productivity as well as manage networked computing environments.  Founded in 
1982, the Company has offices in the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia, 
Europe and Latin America.

The Company's earnings and stock price have been and may continue to be 
subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis.  
Symantec has previously experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from 
levels expected by securities analysts, which has had an immediate and 
significant adverse effect on the trading price of the Company's common 
stock.  This may occur again in the future.  Additionally, as a growing 
percentage of the Company's revenues are generated from network software 
products, which are frequently sold through site licenses that often occur 
late in the quarter, the Company may not learn of revenue shortfalls until 
late in the fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and 
adverse effect on the trading price of the Company's common stock.

Furthermore, the Company participates in a highly dynamic industry, which 
often results in significant volatility of the Company's common stock price.  
In particular, the impact of, and investors' assessment of the impact of, the 
market's acceptance and adoption rate of Microsoft's operating systems, 
Windows 95 and Windows NT, on Symantec's business may result in significant 
increases in the volatility of Symantec's stock price.  In addition, the 
trend towards server-based applications in networks and over the Internet 
could have a material adverse effect on sales of the Company's desktop-based 
products which may not be offset by sales of the Company's network-based 
products.




During the last three fiscal years, Symantec has acquired the following
companies:



* Includes Delrina exchangeable stock that is traded on the Toronto Stock 
  Exchange.  Delrina stockholders received Delrina exchangeable stock in 
  exchange for Delrina common stock at a rate of 0.61 per share.  Delrina 
  exchangeable stock may be converted into Symantec common stock on a 
  one-for-one basis at each stockholder's option.

All of these acquisitions were accounted for as poolings of interest.  
Accordingly, all financial information has been restated to reflect the 
combined operations of these companies and Symantec with the exception of 
Intec and SLR, which had results of operations that were not material to 
Symantec's consolidated financial statements.

Symantec has completed a number of acquisitions and expects to acquire other 
companies in the future.  While the Company believes that previous 
acquisitions were in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders, 
acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the diversion of 
management's attention to assimilation of the operations and personnel of the 
acquired companies in an efficient and timely manner, the retention of key 
employees, the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image, the 
coordination of research and development and sales efforts and the 
integration of the acquired products.  

The Company has lost certain employees of acquired companies whom it desired 
to retain, and, in some cases, the assimilation of the operations of acquired 
companies took longer than initially had been anticipated by the Company.  In 
addition, because the employees of acquired companies have frequently 
remained in their existing, geographically diverse facilities, the Company 
has not realized certain economies of scale that might otherwise have been 
achieved.

Symantec typically incurs significant acquisition expenses for legal, 
accounting and financial advisory services, the write-off of duplicative 
technology and other expenses related to the combination of the companies.  
These expenses may have a significant adverse impact on the Company's future 
profitability and financial resources.




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth each item from the consolidated statements of 
operations as a percentage of net revenues and the percentage change in the 
total amount of each item for the periods indicated.

                                                               Period-to-Period
                                                                     Percentage
                                                            Increase (Decrease)
                                                            -------------------
                                                               1996        1995
                                     Year Ended March 31,   Compared   Compared
                                     1996   1995   1994      to 1995    to 1994
                                    ------ ------ ------    ---------  --------
Net revenues . . . . . . . . . . . .  100%   100%   100%           3%      7%
Cost of revenues . . . . . . . . . .   25     21     25           20     (11)
                                    ------ ------ ------
   Gross margin. . . . . . . . . . .   75     79     75           (1)     13
Operating expenses:                                                         
 Research and development. . . . . .   21     17     17           34       4
 Sales and marketing . . . . . . . .   52     44     47           21       0
 General and administrative. . . . .    7      7      9           12     (14)
 Acquisition, restructuring and                                              
  other non-recurring expenses . . .    6      2     14          189     (83)
                                    ------ ------ ------
   Total operating expenses. . . . .   86     70     87           28     (14)
                                    ------ ------ ------
Operating income (loss). . . . . . .  (11)     9    (12)           *       *
Interest income. . . . . . . . . . .    2      1      1           33     132
Interest expense . . . . . . . . . .    --    --     --          (38)     (4)
Other income (expense), net. . . . .   (1)    --     --            *     (39)
                                    ------ ------ ------
Income (loss) before income taxes. .  (10)    10    (11)           *       *
Provision (benefit) for income taxes   (1)     2     --            *       *
                                    ------ ------ ------
Net income (loss). . . . . . . . . .   (9)%    8%   (11)%          *       *
                                    ------ ------ ------
                                    ------ ------ ------
- --------------------------------------
*  percentage change is not meaningful.

NET REVENUES.

Net revenues increased 3% from $431.3 million in fiscal 1995 to $445.4 
million in fiscal 1996.  During fiscal 1996, the Company experienced 
increased net revenues from its Network/Communications Utilities and Security 
Utilities products, offset in part by decreased revenues from its Fax and 
Consumer/Productivity Application products.  In addition, Symantec 
experienced an increase in net revenue from the introduction of several 
Windows 95 products; however, this increase was substantially offset by a 
decrease in net revenues related to Windows 3.1 and DOS products.

Net revenues for fiscal 1996 also include $7.2 million of international net 
revenue previously deferred by Central Point.  In March 1994, due to concerns 
regarding Central Point's long-term viability and the announced acquisition 
of Central Point by Symantec, Central Point was unable to reasonably estimate 
future product returns from its distributors and resellers.  In addition, 
there were high levels of inventory in the distribution channel that had been 
shipped into the channel prior to the acquisition.  Central Point believed 
that there was a high risk of this inventory being returned.  In accordance 
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 48, Central Point 
revenue and the related cost of revenue for fiscal 1994 for software 
shipments to Central Point's distributors and resellers was deferred until 
sold by the distributors or resellers to end users.  Since the acquisition, 
Symantec analyzed sell-through and product return information related to the 
Central Point products to determine when such products were sold-through. 
Symantec believes its sales and marketing programs were successful in selling 
the remaining deferred inventory to end users. Accordingly, in the quarter 
ended June 30, 1995, Symantec was able to estimate the remaining Central 
Point product returns in the international distribution channel and, as a 
result, recognized




approximately $7.2 million of international net revenues and $1.7 million of 
international cost of revenues previously deferred by Central Point.

Net revenues increased 7% from $403.2 million in fiscal 1994 to $431.3 
million in fiscal 1995.  The increase in fiscal 1995 net revenues from the 
prior year was principally due to an increase in unit sales of Fax and 
Communications software products resulting from the release of new and 
upgraded products in these categories, as well as an increase in site license 
and distribution revenues, which was partially offset by a decrease in 
upgrade and OEM revenues.  The increase in site license revenues during 
fiscal 1995 was primarily due to the release of several new network products 
which were generally sold through site licenses.  The decrease in upgrade 
revenues was primarily due to several products which were intentionally not 
upgraded in anticipation of the release of products designed for the Windows 
95 operating systems.

In fiscal 1994, the deferral of Central Point revenue discussed above 
resulted in a decrease in North American net revenues of approximately $5.0 
million and international net revenues of approximately $10.0 million and an 
increase in the fiscal 1994 loss before provision for income taxes of 
approximately $12.3 million.  As a result of Symantec's further analysis of 
returns related to the Central Point products during fiscal 1995, in the 
March 1995 quarter Symantec was able to assess the remaining Central Point 
product returns in the North American distribution channel and, as a result, 
recognized approximately $3.0 million of North American net revenues 
previously deferred by Central Point.

Net revenues from international sales grew from approximately $116.4 million 
in fiscal 1994 to $134.6 million in fiscal 1995 and to $142.2 million in 
fiscal 1996 and represented 29%, 31% and 32% of net revenues, respectively.  
The increase in international net revenues from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 
resulted primarily from increased Delrina international net revenues and 
growth in Symantec's Asia/Pacific region, product upgrade sales of 
international versions of Symantec's Windows 95 products and recognition of 
the Central Point deferred revenue discussed above.  The increase in 
international net revenues from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995 was largely due to 
the favorable impact of the change in foreign currency exchange rates during 
fiscal 1995.

Enhanced product releases typically result in an increase in net revenues 
during the first three to six months following their introduction due to 
purchases by existing users, usually at discounted prices, and initial 
inventory purchases by Symantec's distributors.  In addition, between the 
date Symantec announces a new version or new product and the date of release, 
distributors, dealers and end users often delay purchases, cancel orders or 
return products in anticipation of the availability of the new version or new 
product.

The Company's pattern of revenues and earnings may also be affected by a 
phenomenon known as "channel fill."  Channel fill occurs following the 
introduction of a new product or a new version of a product as distributors 
buy significant quantities of the new product or version in anticipation of 
sales of such product or version.  Following such purchases, the rate of 
distributors' purchases often declines in a material amount, depending on the 
rates of purchases by end users or "sell-through."  The phenomenon of channel 
fill may also occur in anticipation of price increases or in response to 
sales promotions or incentives, some of which may be designed to encourage 
customers to accelerate purchases that might otherwise occur in later 
periods.  Channels may also become filled simply because the distributors are 
unable to, or do not, sell their inventories to retail distribution or end 
users as anticipated.  If sell-through does not occur at a sufficient rate, 
distributors will delay purchases or cancel orders in later periods or return 
prior purchases in order to reduce their inventories.  Such order delays or 
cancellations can cause material fluctuations in revenues from one quarter to 
the next.  The impact is somewhat mitigated by the Company's deferral of 
revenue associated with inventories estimated to be in excess of levels 
deemed appropriate in the distribution channel; however, net revenues may 
still be materially affected favorably or adversely by the effects of channel 
fill.  Channel fill did not have a material impact on the Company's revenues 
in fiscal 1996, 1995 or 1994 but may have a material impact in future 
periods, especially in periods where a large number of new products are 
introduced.

Symantec believes that many of its customers are moving toward an 
enterprise-wide computing environment where more desktop personal computers 
will be interconnected into large local-area and wide-area networks 
administered by corporate MIS departments as well as the Internet.  
Symantec's entry into the enterprise software market is relatively new and, 
as a result, Symantec is beginning to compete with companies with which it 
has not previously competed.  As a result, there is uncertainty regarding 
customer acceptance of the Company's products as Symantec has not been a 
major supplier in the enterprise market.  These factors increase the 
uncertainty of forecasting




financial results.  While the Company expects the market's shift toward 
enterprise and Internet products to continue, there can be no assurance that 
the Company's enterprise products will be successful or will gain customer 
acceptance.

With the expansion to enterprise-wide computing systems markets, Symantec 
believes that it must continue to develop relationships with systems 
integrators and other third-party vendors that provide consulting and 
integration services to customers and deliver products developed for this 
market segment.  Furthermore, the sales cycle with respect to enterprise 
products is lengthy and may be subject to integration and acceptance by the 
customer.  In addition, a very high proportion of enterprise product sales 
are completed in the last few days of each quarter, in part because customers 
are able, or believe that they are able, to negotiate lower prices and more 
favorable terms.  Each of these factors increases the risk that forecasts of 
quarterly financial results will not be achieved.

Enterprise products are frequently sold through site licenses where a license 
for multiple workstations is sold to a customer at a negotiated price.  
Desktop software products are generally sold through the distribution channel 
or directly to end-users.  Enterprise product revenues are typically 
comprised of lower volume, high dollar site license transactions compared to 
desktop product revenues which are typically comprised of higher volume, low 
dollar pre-packaged product transactions.  The prices of site licenses tend 
to vary based upon the individual products purchased, the number of units 
licensed and the number of workstations at the customer's site.

Price competition is significant in the microcomputer business software 
market and may continue to increase and become even more significant in the 
future, resulting in reduced profit margins.  Should competitive pressures in 
the industry continue to increase, Symantec may be required to reduce 
software prices and/or increase its spending on sales, marketing and research 
and development as a percentage of net revenues, resulting in lower profit 
margins.  In addition, aggressive pricing strategies of competitors in other 
software markets, some of whom have significantly more financial resources 
than Symantec, may cause the Company to further reduce software prices and/or 
increase sales and marketing expenses on a number of the Company's products.  
There was no material impact to net revenues resulting from changes in 
product pricing in fiscal 1996, 1995 or 1994.

Approximately 37% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 1996 were from 
sales to two large distributors.  These customers tend to make the majority 
of their purchases at the end of the fiscal quarter, in part because they are 
able, or believe that they are able, to negotiate lower prices and more 
favorable terms.  This end-of-period buying pattern means that forecasts of 
quarterly and annual financial results are particularly vulnerable to the 
risk that they will not be achieved, either because expected sales do not 
occur or because they occur at lower prices or on less favorable terms to the 
Company.  The Company's distribution customers also carry the products of 
Symantec's competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than 
the Company.  The distributors have limited capital to invest in inventory, 
and their decisions to purchase the Company's products is partly a function 
of pricing, terms and special promotions offered by Symantec as well as by 
its competitors over which the Company has no control and which it cannot 
predict.

While Symantec's diverse product line has tended to lessen fluctuations in 
quarterly net revenues, these fluctuations have occurred recently and are 
likely to occur in the future.  These fluctuations may be caused by a number 
of factors, including the timing of announcements and releases of new or 
enhanced versions of its products and product upgrades, the introduction of 
competitive products by existing or new competitors, reduced demand for any 
given product, seasonality in the retail software market in Europe, the 
market's transition between operating systems and the transition from a 
desktop PC environment to an enterprise-wide environment.  These factors may 
cause significant fluctuations in net revenues and, accordingly, operating 
results.

The Company is devoting substantial efforts to the development of software 
products that are designed to operate on Microsoft's Windows 95 and/or 
Windows NT operating systems.  Microsoft has incorporated advanced utilities 
including telecommunications, facsimile and data recovery utilities in 
Windows 95 and may include additional product features in future releases of 
Windows 95 or Windows NT that may decrease the demand for certain of the 
Company's products, including those currently under development.  Should 
Windows 95 or Windows NT not achieve timely market acceptance, or should the 
Company be unable to successfully or timely develop products that operate 
under these operating systems, the Company's future net revenues and 
operating results would be immediately and significantly adversely affected.  
In addition, as the timing of delivery and adoption of many of Symantec's 
products is dependent on the adoption rate of these operating systems, which 
the Company and securities analysts are unable to predict, the ability of 
Symantec and securities analysts to forecast the Company's




net revenues has been and will continue to be adversely impacted.  As a 
result, there is a heightened risk that net revenues and profits will not be 
in line with analysts' expectations in the periods following the introduction 
of or upgrades to Windows 95 and Windows NT.

The length of Symantec's product development cycle has generally been greater 
than Symantec originally expected.  Although such delays have undoubtedly had 
a material adverse effect on Symantec's business, Symantec is not able to 
quantify the magnitude of net revenues that were deferred or lost as a result 
of any particular delay because Symantec is not able to predict the amount of 
net revenues that would have been obtained had the original development 
expectations been met.  Delays in product development, including products 
being developed for Windows 95 or Windows NT, are likely to occur in the 
future and could have a material adverse effect on the amount and timing of 
future revenues.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of software development 
projects, Symantec does not generally disclose or announce the specific 
expected shipment date of the Company's product introductions.  In addition, 
there can be no assurance that any products currently being developed by 
Symantec, including products being developed for Windows 95 or Windows NT, 
will be technologically successful, that any resulting products will achieve 
market acceptance or that the Company's products will be effective in 
competing with products either currently in the market or introduced in the 
future.

During fiscal 1993, Symantec believes net revenues were adversely affected by 
an unexpected substantial price reduction in 486-based personal computers 
that caused a shift in customer spending from software to personal computer 
hardware.  Symantec also believes that the shift was caused by the 
introduction of Windows 3.1, which required more computing capability.  If 
the next class of personal computers, including those based on Intel's 
P6/Pentium Pro microprocessor or Motorola, Inc.'s Power PC, are also rapidly 
reduced in price, there may be another unexpected shift in customer buying 
away from software and Symantec's products, which could result in 
significantly reduced revenues and a material adverse effect on operating 
results.  In addition, Windows 95 and Windows NT requires significantly more 
computer memory and hard disk space than Windows 3.1, and if there is a shift 
from software to hardware spending, there could be an adverse effect on the 
sales of computer hardware and software.  Either of these events could result 
in significantly reduced net revenues and have a material adverse effect on 
Symantec's operating results.  Symantec has noted that P6/Pentium Pro 
microprocessors have been reduced in price and are being marketed 
aggressively by Intel.

The Company estimates and maintains reserves for product returns.  Symantec's 
return policy allows its distributors, subject to certain limitations, to 
return purchased products in exchange for new products or for credit towards 
future purchases.  End users may return products through dealers and 
distributors within a reasonable period from the date of purchase for a full 
refund, and retailers may return older versions of products.  Various 
distributors and resellers may have different return policies that may 
negatively impact the level of products which are returned to Symantec.  
Product returns occur when the Company introduces upgrades and new versions 
of products or when distributors order too much product.  In addition, 
competitive factors often require the Company to offer rights of return for 
products that distributors or retail stores are unable to sell.  Symantec has 
experienced, and may experience in the future, significant increases in 
product returns above historical levels from customers of acquired companies 
after an acquisition is completed.  Symantec prepares detailed analyses of 
historical return rates when estimating anticipated returns and maintains 
reserves for product returns.  In addition to detailed historical return 
rates, the Company's estimation of return reserves takes into consideration 
upcoming product upgrades, current market conditions, customer inventory 
balances and any other known factors that could impact anticipated returns.  
Based upon returns experienced, the Company's estimates have been materially 
accurate.  The impact of actual returns on net revenues, net of such 
provisions, has not had a material effect on the Company's liquidity as the 
returns typically result in the issuance of credit towards future purchases 
as opposed to cash payments to the distributors.  However, there can be no 
assurance that future returns will not exceed the reserves established by the 
Company or that future returns will not have a material adverse effect on the 
operating results of the Company.

The Company's product return reserve balances typically fluctuate from period 
to period based upon the level and timing of product upgrade releases.  
Product return reserve balances at March 31, 1996 were higher than reserve 
balances at March 31, 1995.  The increase was primarily related to the 
introduction of Symantec's Windows 95 products during the last three quarters 
of fiscal 1996, which had high sell-in volumes.  The level of actual product 
returns and related product return reserves is largely a factor of the level 
of product sell-in (gross revenue) from normal sales activity and the 
replacement of obsolete quantities with the current version of the Company's 
product.  As a result, gross revenues generally move in the same direction as 
product returns.  Changes in the levels of




product returns and related product return reserves are generally offset by 
changing levels of gross revenue and, therefore, do not typically have a 
material impact on reported net revenues.

The Company operates with relatively little backlog; therefore, if near-term 
demand for the Company's products weakens in a given quarter, there could be 
an immediate, material adverse effect on net revenues and on the Company's 
operating results.

Symantec maintains a research and development facility in Santa Monica, 
California that was damaged during the January 1994 earthquake in Southern 
California.  Much of the Company's administration, sales and marketing, 
manufacturing and research and development facilities are located on the west 
coast of the United States.  Future earthquakes or other natural disasters 
could cause a significant disruption to the Company's operations and may 
cause delays in product development that could adversely impact future 
revenues of the Company.

Also, Symantec's order entry department is located in Oregon, with shipments 
being made from a warehouse in California.  Order entry and shipping is 
similarly separated in Europe.  A disruption in communications between these 
facilities, particularly at the end of a fiscal quarter, would likely result 
in an unexpected shortfall in net revenues and could result in an adverse 
impact on operating results.

During the March 1994 quarter, Symantec introduced a new product support 
program that provides a wide variety of free and fee-based technical support 
services to its customers.  Symantec provides its customers with free support 
via electronic and automated services as well as 90 days complimentary free 
telephone support for certain of the Company's products.  In addition, 
Symantec offers both individual users and corporate customers a variety of 
fee-based support options for certain of the Company's products, designed to 
meet their individual technical support requirements.  Fee-based technical 
support services did not generate significant revenues in fiscal 1996, 1995 
and 1994, and are not expected to generate material revenues in the near 
future.

GROSS MARGIN.

Gross margin represents net revenues less cost of revenues.  Cost of revenues 
consists primarily of manufacturing expenses, costs for producing manuals, 
packaging costs, royalties paid to third parties under publishing contracts 
and amortization and write-off of capitalized software.  Amortization of 
capitalized software, including amortization and the write-off of both 
purchased product rights and capitalized software development expenses, 
totaled $19.1 million, $13.4 million and $20.5 million for fiscal 1996, 1995 
and 1994, respectively.  The significant increase in amortization and 
write-off of purchased product rights and capitalized software development 
expenses in fiscal 1996 over fiscal 1995 was the result of Symantec's 
decision to de-emphasize its continued development and marketing efforts 
related to certain products as well as Delrina's write-off of previously 
capitalized software development costs of software designed to operate on 
Windows 3.1.  The decrease in such costs in fiscal 1995 from fiscal 1994 was 
due to the write-off of certain previously capitalized software costs by 
Central Point during fiscal 1994.

Gross margins decreased to 75% of net revenues in fiscal 1996 from 79% in 
fiscal 1995 and remained level with 75% in fiscal 1994.  The decline in the 
gross margin percentage in fiscal 1996 compared to fiscal 1995 was due to an 
increase in the amortization and write-off of purchased product rights and 
capitalized software development expenses noted above and increased reserves 
related to Delrina products designed to operate on Windows 3.1, as well as 
other products de-emphasized by Symantec during fiscal 1996.  The increase in 
the gross margin percentage in fiscal 1995 compared to fiscal 1994 was 
largely due to the growth in higher margin enterprise products, which are 
typically sold through site licenses, as well as Symantec's ability to 
manufacture Central Point products with a lower cost structure than Central 
Point.  Due to reduced amortization and write-off of purchased product 
rights, Symantec believes that the gross margin percentage will increase to 
approximately 80% to 83% in Fiscal 1997 unless there is a significant change 
in Symantec's net revenues.

The microcomputer business software market has been subject to rapid changes 
that can be expected to continue.  Future technology or market changes may 
cause certain products to become obsolete more quickly than expected and thus 
may result in capitalized software write-offs and an increase in required 
inventory reserves and, therefore, reduced gross margins and net income.  In 
addition, the modifications to computer software, including the correction of 
software bugs, may result in significant inventory rework costs, including 
the cost of replacing inventory in the distribution channel.




RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES.

Research and development expenses increased 34% to $94.7 million or 21% of 
net revenues in fiscal 1996 from $70.7 million or 16% of net revenues in 
fiscal 1995 and was $68.1 million or 17% of net revenues in fiscal 1994.  The 
increase in research and development expenses in fiscal 1996 as compared to 
fiscal 1995 was primarily the result of increased product development efforts 
associated with Symantec's and Delrina's development of new Windows 95 
products.  The increase in research and development expenses in fiscal 1995 
in absolute dollars as compared to fiscal 1994 was principally due to an 
increase in the number and scope of development projects undertaken by 
Delrina, including localization of products for international markets and new 
product development in anticipation of the launch of Windows 95, offset in 
part by savings from the consolidation of product development efforts 
resulting from the acquisition of Central Point.

Symantec believes increased research and development expenditures will be 
necessary in order to remain competitive.  The Company expects research and 
development expenses to increase in dollar amount but may decline as a 
percentage of net revenues should net revenues increase more quickly than 
research and development expenses.  While the Company believes its research 
and development expenditures will result in successful product introductions, 
including products being developed for Windows 95 and Windows NT, the 
uncertain outcome of software development projects means that increased 
research and development efforts will not necessarily result in successful 
product introductions due to technical difficulties, market conditions, 
competitive products and other factors, such as customer acceptance of new 
operating systems.

Research and development expenditures are charged to operations as incurred.  
Financial accounting rules requiring capitalization of certain software 
development costs have not materially affected the Company, except for 
amounts capitalized by Delrina prior to its acquisition by Symantec.  Delrina 
did not capitalize any software development costs in fiscal 1996 and 
capitalized $6.3 million and $2.6 million in software development costs in 
fiscal years 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The related amortization expense 
was $5.6 million, $4.0 million and $1.9 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 
1994, respectively.

SALES AND MARKETING EXPENSES.

Sales and marketing expenses increased 21% to $229.7 million or 52% of net 
revenues in fiscal 1996 from $190.4 million or 44% of net revenues in fiscal 
1995 and from $190.0 million or 47% of net revenues in fiscal 1994.  The 
increase in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 1996 as compared to fiscal 
1995 was principally due to an increase in marketing development expenses and 
an increase in sales and marketing expenses primarily associated with the 
release of Symantec's Windows 95 products.  The decrease in fiscal 1995 as a 
percent of net revenues as compared to fiscal 1994 was principally due to the 
elimination of duplicative sales organizations subsequent to the acquisition 
of Central Point, offset in part by increased sales and marketing expenses 
associated with Delrina's expansion in Europe.

Symantec believes substantial sales and marketing efforts are essential to 
achieve revenue growth and to maintain and enhance Symantec's competitive 
position.  Accordingly, with the introduction of new and upgraded products, 
including products currently being developed for Windows 95 and Windows NT, 
Symantec expects the expenses associated with these efforts to increase in 
dollar amount and to continue to constitute its most significant operating 
expense.  There can be no assurance that these increased sales and marketing 
efforts will be successful.  Symantec believes that the Company's sales and 
marketing expenses may decrease as a percentage of net revenues in the near 
term following the high expenses associated with the launch of Windows 95 
products but may increase as a percentage of net revenues should net revenues 
not increase.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

In fiscal 1996, general and administrative expenses increased in absolute 
dollars by 12% to $32.7 million or 7% of net revenues from $29.4 million or 
7% of net revenues in fiscal 1995, and decreased from $34.3 million or 9% of 
net revenues in fiscal 1994.  The increase in general and administrative 
expenses in absolute dollars in fiscal 1996 as compared to fiscal 1995 was 
principally due to significant general and administrative expenses incurred 
by Delrina in the three month period ended September 30, 1995, as well as 
certain legal fees incurred by Delrina.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 
1996, general and administrative expenses decreased to 5% of net revenues 
from 8% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995.  This decrease resulted 
primarily from the elimination of duplicative general and administrative 
functions subsequent to the acquisition of Delrina.  The decrease in fiscal 
1995 as compared to fiscal 1994 was principally due to benefits resulting 
from the consolidation of the general and administrative functions of 




Symantec and Central Point.  Subsequent to the acquisition of Central Point 
by Symantec in fiscal 1995, various duplicative general and administrative 
functions were eliminated as a result of the combination of the companies.  
In addition, general and administrative expenses decreased due to the 
settlement of two class action lawsuits in fiscal 1994 resulting in a 
decrease in legal expenses during fiscal 1995.

While future growth of the Company is expected to result in an increase in 
the dollar amount of general and administrative spending from current levels, 
the Company expects general and administrative expenses to decrease as a 
percent of net revenues in fiscal 1997 as compared to fiscal 1996 as benefits 
are achieved from the elimination of duplicative functions subsequent to the 
acquisition of Delrina. 

ACQUISITION, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER EXPENSES.

ACQUISITION EXPENSES.   In connection with the various acquisitions completed 
in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994 (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), significant 
acquisition expenses were incurred.  These acquisition expenses principally 
included fees for legal, accounting and financial advisory services, the 
write-off of duplicative capitalized technology, the modification of certain 
development contracts and expenses related to the combination of the 
companies, including the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities and 
personnel.  These charges approximated $19.7 million, $9.5 million and  $25.9 
million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

In connection with the acquisition of Delrina in fiscal 1996, Symantec 
recorded total acquisition charges of $22.0 million, which included $8.8 
million for legal, accounting and financial advisory services, $6.4 million 
for the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities and equipment, $3.7 
million for personnel severance and outplacement expenses and $3.1 million 
for the consolidation and discontinuance of certain operational activities 
and other acquisition-related expenses.

In connection with the acquisitions of Central Point and SLR, Symantec 
recorded total acquisition charges of $9.5 million in fiscal 1995.  The 
charges included $3.2 million for legal, accounting and financial advisory 
services, $1.0 million for the write-off of duplicative product-related 
expenses and modification of certain development contracts, $0.9 million for 
the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities, $3.1 million for 
personnel severance and outplacement expenses and $1.3 million for the 
consolidation and discontinuance of certain operational activities and other 
acquisition-related expenses.  During fiscal 1996, the Company recognized a 
reduction in accrued acquisition, restructuring and other expenses of $2.3 
million as actual costs incurred were less than costs previously accrued by 
the Company.

Symantec has completed a number of acquisitions and expects to acquire other 
companies in the future.  While the Company believes that previous 
acquisitions were in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders, 
acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the diversion of 
management's attention to assimilation of the operations and personnel of the 
acquired companies in an efficient and timely manner, the retention of key 
employees, the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image, the 
coordination of research and development and sales efforts and the 
integration of the acquired products.  

The Company has lost certain employees of acquired companies whom it desired 
to retain, and, in some cases, the assimilation of the operations of acquired 
companies took longer than initially had been anticipated by the Company.  In 
addition, because the employees of acquired companies have frequently 
remained in their existing, geographically diverse facilities, the Company 
has not realized certain economies of scale that might otherwise have been 
achieved.

Symantec typically incurs significant acquisition expenses for legal, 
accounting and financial advisory services, the write-off of duplicative 
technology and other expenses related to the combination of the companies.  
These expenses may have a significant adverse impact on the Company's future 
profitability and financial resources.

RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES.  In February 1995, Symantec announced a plan to 
consolidate certain research and development activities.  This plan was 
designed to gain greater synergy between the Company's Third Generation 
Language and Fourth Generation Language development groups.  During fiscal 
1996, the Company completed the combination and incurred $2.2 million for the 
relocation costs of moving equipment and personnel.

During fiscal 1994, Symantec implemented a plan to consolidate and centralize 
certain operational activities (See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements).  This plan was designed to reduce operating expenses 
and enhance operational efficiencies by centralizing certain order 
administration, technical support and customer service




activities in Eugene, Oregon.  In fiscal 1994, the Company recorded a charge 
of $4.7 million, which included $1.1 million for the elimination of 
duplicative and excess facilities, $1.5 million for the relocation of the 
Company's existing operations and equipment, $1.1 million for employee 
relocation expenses and $1.0 million for employee severance payments.  This 
centralization has been completed.

During fiscal 1994, Central Point incurred $16.0 million of expenses related 
to the restructuring of its operations in order to reduce its overall cost 
structure and to redirect its software development and marketing efforts away 
from the personal desktop computer market toward personal computer network 
markets.  The charge included $6.2 million for employee severance, 
outplacement and relocation expenses, $5.6 million for the write-off of 
certain excess fixed and intangible assets, $1.8 million for lease 
abandonments and facility relocation and $2.4 million for the consolidation 
and discontinuance of certain operational activities and other related 
expenses.  This restructuring has been completed.

OTHER EXPENSES.  In fiscal 1996, Symantec sold the assets of Time Line 
Solutions Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary, to a group comprised of 
Time Line Solutions Corporation's management and incurred a $2.7 million loss 
on the sale.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company recorded $2.0 
million in estimated legal fees expected to be incurred in connection with a 
securities class action complaint filed in March 1996 and other legal 
expenses (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

During fiscal 1994, Symantec reached an agreement with the plaintiffs and 
Symantec's insurance carriers to settle two securities class actions and a 
related derivative lawsuit brought by stockholders of Symantec (See Note 10 
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).  The combined settlement 
amount of the cases was $19.0 million, approximately $12.5 million of which 
was paid by Symantec's insurance carriers.  Symantec recorded a charge in 
fiscal 1994 of $6.5 million, representing Symantec's portion of the 
settlement.

In fiscal 1994, Central Point purchased from unrelated parties certain 
in-process software technologies for $3.0 million which was immediately 
expensed. (See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Symantec is involved in a number of other judicial and administrative 
proceedings incidental to its business (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements).  The Company intends to defend all of these lawsuits 
vigorously and, although an unfavorable outcome could occur in one or more of 
the cases, the final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the 
aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial 
position of the Company.  However, depending on the amount and timing of an 
unfavorable resolution of these lawsuits, it is possible that the Company's 
future results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely 
effected in a particular period.

As of March 31, 1996, total accrued cash related acquisition and 
restructuring expenses were $7.8 million and included $2.0 million for legal 
fees, $3.5 million for the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities 
and $2.3 million for the consolidation and discontinuance of certain 
operational activities and other acquisition-related expenses.

INTEREST INCOME, INTEREST EXPENSE AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE).

Interest income was $7.5 million, $5.6 million and $2.4 million in fiscal 
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The increase in interest income in fiscal 
1996 over fiscal 1995, and in fiscal 1995 over fiscal 1994 was due to higher 
average invested cash balances.  Interest expense was $1.5 million, $2.4 
million and $2.5 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The 
decrease in interest expense in fiscal 1996 from fiscal 1995 and 1994 was 
principally due to reduced interest expense on convertible subordinated 
debentures that were issued on April 2, 1993.  On April 26, 1995, convertible 
subordinated debentures totaling $10.0 million were converted into 833,333 
shares of Symantec common stock, resulting in the decrease in fiscal 1996 
interest expense.  Other income (expense) is primarily comprised of foreign 
currency exchange gains and losses from fluctuations in currency exchange 
rates.

The Company conducts business in various foreign currencies and is therefore 
subject to the transaction exposures that arise from foreign exchange rate 
movements between the dates that foreign currency transactions are recorded 
and the dates that they are settled. Symantec utilizes some natural hedging 
to mitigate the Company's transaction exposures and, effective December 31, 
1993, the Company commenced hedging some residual transaction exposures 
through the use of one-month forward contracts.  At March 31, 1996, there was 
a total of approximately $96.5 million of outstanding forward exchange 
contracts.  The net liability of forward contracts was approximately




$85.5 million at March 31, 1996.  There have been no significant gains or 
losses to date with respect to these activities.  Gains or losses would occur 
on forward contracts held by the Company when changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates occur.  These gains and losses should be largely offset by the 
transaction gains and losses resulting from foreign currency denominated 
cash, accounts receivable, intercompany balances and trade payables.  There 
can be no assurance that these strategies will continue to be effective or 
that transaction gains or losses can be minimized or forecasted accurately.  
The Company does not hedge its translation risk.

INCOME TAXES.
The effective income tax benefit for fiscal 1996 was 10%, which compares to 
an effective income tax provision of 25% in fiscal 1995 and an effective tax 
benefit of 3% in fiscal 1994.  The 1996 income tax benefit of 10% is lower 
than the statutory rate primarily due to the unbenefitted losses related to 
the Delrina acquisition.

A net deferred tax asset of approximately $12.8 million is reflected in the 
financial statements.  Approximately $35.0 million of future U.S. taxable 
income will be necessary to realize this deferred tax asset.  While there can 
be no assurance that future income will be sufficient to realize this 
benefit, management is of the opinion that this benefit will be realized in 
the near future based on projected income from new and existing products.  A 
valuation allowance of $45.7 million was provided in the financial 
statements. Approximately $19.7 million of the valuation allowance for 
deferred tax assets is attributable to stock option deductions, the benefit 
of which will be credited to equity when realized.  Approximately $18.1 
million of the valuation allowance relates to losses and temporary 
differences associated with Delrina and the remaining $7.9 million of the 
valuation allowance represents net operating loss and tax credit 
carryforwards of other acquired companies that are limited by separate return 
limitations and under the "change of ownership" rules of Internal Revenue 
Code Section 382.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash and short-term investments decreased $2.6 million from $131.8 million at 
March 31, 1995 to $129.2 million at March 31, 1996.  This decrease was 
largely due to cash expenditures for capital equipment, which was partially 
offset by cash provided from operating activities and proceeds from the 
exercise of stock options.  Net cash provided by operating activities was 
$11.0 million and was primarily due to the change in net assets and 
liabilities and non-cash related expenses, offset in part by the Company's 
net loss of $39.8 million.

Trade accounts receivable decreased $9.0 million from $81.3 million at March 
31, 1995 to $72.3 million at March 31, 1996 primarily due to an increase in 
reserves for product returns at March 31, 1996.

The Company has a $10.0 million line of credit that expires in March 1998.  
The line of credit is available for general corporate purposes and bears 
interest at the bank's reference (prime) interest rate (8.25% at March 31, 
1996), the U.S. offshore rate plus 1.25%, a CD rate plus 1.25% or LIBOR plus 
1.25%, at the Company's discretion.  The line of credit requires bank 
approval for the payment of cash dividends.  Borrowings under this line are 
unsecured and are subject to the Company maintaining certain financial ratios 
and profits.  At March 31, 1996, there was approximately $ 0.4 million of 
outstanding standby letters of credit under this line of credit. There were 
no borrowings outstanding under this line at March 31, 1996.  The Company was 
in compliance with the debt covenants at March 31, 1996.  Future acquisitions 
by the Company may cause the Company to be in violation of the line of credit 
covenants; however, the Company believes that if the line of credit were 
canceled or amounts were not available under the line, there would not be a 
material adverse impact on the financial results, liquidity or capital 
resources of the Company.

The Company may utilize significant amounts of cash in connection with the 
potential acquisition of additional companies, capital equipment and software 
product rights in the future.  However, if the Company were to sustain 
significant losses, there can be no assurance that the bank line of credit, 
which is available through March 1998, would remain available.  Additionally, 
the Company could be required to reduce operating expenses, which could 
result in further product delays, reassess acquisition opportunities, which 
could negatively impact the Company's growth objectives, and/or pursue 
further financing options.  The Company believes existing cash and short-term 
investments will be sufficient to fund operations for the next year.




ITEM 8:FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  See Part IV, Item 14 of this Form 10-K.

SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA.  During fiscal 1996, Symantec acquired Delrina in a 
transaction accounted for as a pooling of interest.  All financial 
information has been restated to reflect the combined operations of Symantec 
and Delrina.



*See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 9:CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

Not Applicable.





PART III

ITEM 10:DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

Information required by this Item with respect to Directors may be found in 
the section captioned "Election of Symantec Directors" appearing in the 
definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in connection with 
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September 25, 1996.  Such 
information is incorporated herein by reference.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT:

The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

NAME                     AGE   POSITION
- ----------------------  ----   ------------------------------------------------
Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.    49   President and Chief Executive Officer
Robert R. B. Dykes        46   Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations
                                and Chief Financial Officer
John C. Laing             45   Executive Vice President, Desktop Products
Dennis Bennie             43   Executive Vice President, Communications Products
Mark Bailey               37   Senior Vice President, Business Development
Ted Schlein               32   Vice President, Networking and Client/Server
                                Technology Group
Dana E. Siebert           36   Vice President, Worldwide Sales
Christopher Calisi        36   Vice President, Communication Products
Derek Witte               39   Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Executive officers are chosen by and serve at the discretion of the Board of 
Directors.  There is no family relationship between any director or executive 
officer of Symantec and any other director or executive officer of Symantec. 

GORDON E. EUBANKS, JR. is the President and Chief Executive Officer of 
Symantec. He has served as a director of Symantec since November 1983 and as 
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Symantec since October 1986.  
Mr. Eubanks also served as Symantec's Chairman of the Board from November 
1983 to October 1986 and from November 1990 to January 1993.  Previously, Mr. 
Eubanks was Vice President of Digital Research, Inc.'s  commercial systems 
division where he was responsible for the development and marketing of all 
system software products.  He left Digital Research, Inc. in September 1983.  
Mr. Eubanks founded Compiler Systems, Inc. and authored its products:  
CBASIC, one of the first successful languages on personal computers, and 
CB80, a compiled version of CBASIC.  Compiler Systems, Inc. was acquired by 
Digital Research, Inc. in August of 1981.  Mr. Eubanks received his Bachelor 
of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Oklahoma State University.  
He received his Masters degree in Computer Science from Naval Postgraduate 
School in Monterey, California.  Mr. Eubanks was a commissioned officer in 
the United States Navy from 1970 to 1979 serving in the Nuclear Submarine 
Force.  Mr. Eubanks is also a director of NetFrame and RasterOps Corporation. 
He is a member of the IEEE and ACM.

On February 26, 1993, criminal indictments were filed against Mr. Eubanks for 
allegedly violating various California Penal Code Sections relating to the 
misappropriation of trade secrets and unauthorized access to a computer 
system.  Symantec believes that the charges have no merit.

ROBERT R. B. DYKES is Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and 
Chief Financial Officer of Symantec.  Mr. Dykes joined Symantec in October 
1988.  From April 1984 to October 1988, Mr. Dykes was the Chief Financial 
Officer at Adept Technology, Inc., a robotics firm where he oversaw all 
financial procedures and reporting and developed venture capital and funding 
strategies.  From July 1983 to April 1984, Mr. Dykes was with Xebec, a 
publicly held Winchester disk drive controller manufacturer, most recently as 
Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to Xebec, Mr. Dykes spent 12 years in various 
financial positions at Ford Motor Company in New Zealand and Australia and 
with its Finance Staff in Dearborn, Michigan, most recently as manager of the 
marketing budgets




for the Ford and Lincoln Mercury car divisions.  Mr. Dykes holds a Bachelor 
of Commerce and Administration degree from Victoria University in Wellington, 
New Zealand.  Mr. Dykes is on the board of directors of Flextronics 
International, Ltd.

JOHN C. LAING is Executive Vice President, Desktop Products of Symantec.  
Prior to serving in this position, Mr. Laing served as Executive Vice 
President, Worldwide Sales of Symantec.  Mr. Laing joined Symantec in March 
1989 as Vice President/Sales.  Before joining Symantec, Mr. Laing served as 
Regional Director for Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple"), a microcomputer 
manufacturer, in the Midwest.  In that position his responsibilities included 
managing Apple's sales, marketing and support activities within Illinois, 
Wisconsin and Northern Indiana.  Prior to joining Apple in July 1986, Mr. 
Laing served as Vice President and General Manager at ECZEL Corporation, a 
division of Crown Zellerbach Corporation.  Mr. Laing spent the majority of 
his earlier career at Xerox Corporation, where he served in a variety of 
sales and sales management positions over a ten-year period.  Mr. Laing is a 
director of Macromedia, Inc., a multimedia software developer, and the 
Software Publishers Association.

DENNIS BENNIE was Executive Vice President, Communications Products of 
Symantec and served as a Director of Symantec from November 1995 until April 
1996.  Mr. Bennie co-founded Delrina and served as Chairman of the Board of 
Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Delrina from June 1988 until 
November 1995.  He oversaw all international expansion and financial 
activities.  Prior to joining Delrina, Mr. Bennie co-founded and served as 
President of Ingram Software Ltd., one of Canada's largest software 
distributors, from 1984 to 1988.

MARK BAILEY is Senior Vice President, Business Development of Symantec.  Mr. 
Bailey has led Symantec's mergers and acquisitions effort since December 
1989.  Prior to that, Mr. Bailey was an associate partner with one of the 
early investors in Symantec, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.  Before 
attending graduate school, Mr. Bailey worked at Hewlett Packard.  Mr. Bailey 
received a Bachelor of Science degree cum laude in electrical engineering and 
computer science from Princeton University and an MBA from Harvard 
University's Graduate School of Business Administration.

TED SCHLEIN is Vice President, Networking and Client/Server Technology Group 
of Symantec.  Prior to serving in this position, Mr. Schlein was Vice 
President and General Manager, Client/Server Technology Group.  Mr. Schlein 
has been an employee of Symantec since June 1986, and during that time, he 
has served in a variety of management positions including Vice President, 
European Business Development; Vice President, Data Management Group; and 
Director, Utilities Group.  Mr. Schlein holds a Bachelor of Science degree in 
economics from the University of Pennsylvania.

DANA E. SIEBERT is Vice President, Worldwide Sales of Symantec.  Previously, 
Mr. Siebert served as Vice President, Worldwide Services at Symantec.  Mr. 
Siebert joined Symantec in September 1987.  From 1985 to 1987, Mr. Siebert 
was a Sales Manager at THINK Technologies where he was responsible for U.S. 
corporate, OEM and international sales.  Previously, Mr. Siebert held a 
number of sales management positions in high technology companies including 
Wang Laboratories, Computerland Corporation and Burroughs Corporation.  Mr. 
Siebert holds a Bachelor of Science degree in business administration from 
the University of New Hampshire and is a member of the Software Publishers 
Association.

CHRISTOPHER CALISI is Vice President, Communication Products of Symantec.  
From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Calisi held several positions within Symantec's Remote 
Access Business Unit, including Development Manager, Director of Development 
and, most recently, General Manager. Mr. Calisi joined Symantec in 1992 from 
Unify Corporation, a relational database and 4GL tools vendor where he served 
as the Manager of Sales Engineers.  Prior to Unify Corporation, Mr. Calisi 
held development positions with several relational database vendors, 
including Britton Lee, Oracle and Computer Associates.  Mr. Calisi holds a 
Bachelor of Science degree from the State University of New York at Empire 
State and has received executive training at the Wharton School.  Mr. Calisi 
holds several copyrights for software innovations from 1981 through 1986 and 
is an associate of the IEEE Committee.  Mr. Calisi became an executive 
officer of Symantec in May 1996.

DEREK WITTE is Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Symantec.  
Mr. Witte joined Symantec in October 1990.  From October 1987 until joining 
Symantec, Mr. Witte was Associate General Counsel and later Director of Legal 
Services for Claris Corporation, a software subsidiary of Apple.  Between 
January and October 1987, Mr. Witte was Assistant General Counsel at Worlds 
of Wonder, Inc. Previously, Mr. Witte practiced law with the San 




Francisco-based law firms of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison and Heller Ehrman 
White and McAuliffe during the periods between 1981 and 1983 and 1983 and 
1987, respectively.  Mr. Witte holds a law degree and a Bachelor of Arts 
degree in Economics from the University of California at Berkeley.  Mr. Witte 
has been a member of the California bar since 1981.





ITEM 11:EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

Information with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned 
"Executive Compensation" appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be 
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of 
Stockholders to be held on September 25, 1996.  Such information is 
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12:SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

Information with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned 
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" appearing in 
the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in connection 
with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September 25, 1996.  
Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13:CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

Information with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned 
"Executive Compensation - Certain Transactions" appearing in the definitive 
Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September 25, 1996.  Such information 
is incorporated herein by reference.





PART IV

ITEM 14:EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

Upon written request, the Company will provide, without charge, a copy of the 
Company's annual report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial 
statements, financial statement schedules and any exhibits for the Company's 
most recent fiscal year.  All requests should be sent to:

    Lori A. Barker
    Investor Relations
    Symantec Corporation
    10201 Torre Avenue
    Cupertino, California  95014-2132
    408-446-8990

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

                                                                    PAGE
                                                                   NUMBER
1.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.                             ------
    Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . . . . . .   40
    Report of Price Waterhouse, Independent Auditors . . . . . . .   41
    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1996 and 1995. . .   42
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended 
       March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
       Ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the Years Ended 
       March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to 
    Consolidated Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46


2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.  The following financial statement schedule 
   of Symantec Corporation for the years ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 
   is filed as part of this Form 10-K and should be read in conjunction with 
   the Consolidated Financial Statements of Symantec Corporation.

  SCHEDULE
     II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts . . . . . . . . . . .    61

   Schedules other than that listed above have been omitted since they are 
   either not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise 
   included.

3. EXHIBITS.  The following exhibits are filed as part of, or incorporated by 
   reference into, this Form 10-K:

  3.01  The Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  (Incorporated 
            by reference to Annex G filed with the Registrant's Joint 
            Management Information Circular and Proxy  Statement (No. 000-17781)
            dated October 17, 1995.)

  3.02  The Registrant's Bylaws, as currently in effect.  (Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 3.02 filed with the Registrant's Registration 
            Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-28655) originally filed May 19, 1989,
            and amendment No. 1 thereto filed  June 21, 1989, which Registration
            Statement became effective June 22, 1989.)

  4.01  Registration Rights Agreement.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            4.02 filed with the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4
            (No. 33-35385) initially filed June 13, 1990.)

  4.02  Amendment No. One to Registration Rights Agreement  (Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 4.03 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended April 2, 1993.)




  4.03  Amendment No. Two to Registration Rights Agreement  (Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 4.04 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended April 2, 1993.)

  4.04  Plan of Arrangement and Exchangeable Share Provisions related to the 
            acquisition of Delrina.  (Incorporated by reference to Annex D 
            filed with the Registrant's Joint Management Information Circular 
            and Proxy Statement dated October 17,    1995.)

  4.05  Support Agreement dated July 5, 1995 between Symantec and Delrina. 
            (Incorporated by reference to Annex E filed with the Registrant's 
            Joint Management Information Circular and Proxy Statement dated 
            October 17, 1995.)

  4.06  Form of Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated July 5, 1996 between 
            Symantec and Delrina. (Incorporated by reference to Annex F filed 
            with the Registrant's Joint Management Information Circular and 
            Proxy Statement dated October 17, 1995.)

 10.01  Amended Agreement Respecting Certain Rights of Publicity.  (Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.04 filed with the Registrant's 
            Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-35385) initially filed 
            June 13, 1990.)

 10.02  Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement between Registrant and 
            Peter Norton and Ronald Posner.  (Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.06 filed with the Registrant's Registration Statement 
            on Form S-4 (No. 33-35385) initially filed June 13, 1990.)

 10.03* 1988 Employees Stock Option Plan, as amended to date.  (Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.02 filed with the Registrant's Registration 
            Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-88694) filed January 23, 1995.)

 10.04* 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended to date.  (Incorporated 
            by reference to Exhibit 4.01 filed with the Registrant's 
            Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No.33-88694) filed January 23, 
            1995.)

 10.05* Form of Stock Option Agreement and Form of Stock Option Exercise 
            Request, as currently in effect, under the Registrant's 1988 
            Employees Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.10 filed with the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 
            S-4 (No. 33-35385) initially filed June 13, 1990.)

 10.06* 1988 Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended to date.  (Incorporated 
            by reference to Exhibit 10.09 filed with the Registrant's Annual 
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 2, 1993.)

 10.07* 1993 Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended.  (Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 10.07 filed with the Registrant's Quarterly 
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994)

 10.08* Form of Stock Option Grant and Stock Option Exercise Notice and 
            Agreement under the Registrant's 1988 Directors Stock Option Plan.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 filed with the 
            Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.33-35385) 
            initially filed June 13, 1990.)

 10.09*  1994 Patent Incentive Plan.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            4.01 filed with the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8
            (No. 33-60141) filed June 9, 1995.)

 10.10* 1996 Equity Incentive Plan.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A 
            filed with the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 26, 1996.)

 10.11  Office building lease dated as of August 1, 1991, between Lincoln Town
            Center and Symantec Corporation regarding property located in 
            Cupertino, California. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11
            filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended April 2, 1993.)

 10.12  Addendum No. 4 to Office Building Lease By and Between Lincoln Property
            Company N.C., Inc. and Symantec Corporation Dated August 1, 1991. 
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 filed with the 
            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
            December 31, 1993.)

 10.13  Office building lease dated as of April 10, 1991, between the Registrant
            and Maguire Thomas Partners Colorado Place regarding property 
            located in Santa Monica, California.  (Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.25 filed with the Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 
            10-K for the year ended March 31, 1991.)

- ------------------------
*Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




 10.14  Office building lease dated as of February 27, 1991, between the 
            Registrant and Kim Camp No. VII regarding property located in 
            Sunnyvale, California.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26
            filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended March 31, 1991.)

 10.15  Office building lease dated as of April 19, 1995, between the Registrant
            and CIGNA Property and Casualty Insurance Company regarding property
            located in Cupertino, California. (Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.16 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the year ended March 31, 1995.)

 10.16  Office building lease, as amended, dated as of December 1, 1995 between
            Delrina (Canada) Corporation and Sherway Centre Limited regarding 
            property located in Toronto, Canada.  (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.01 filed with the Registrants Quarterly Report on Form 
            10-Q for the quarter ended December 29, 1995.)

 10.17  Form of Indemnity Agreement with Officers and Directors.  (Incorporated 
            by reference to Exhibit 10.17 filed with the Registrant's 
            Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No.33-28655) originally filed 
            May 19, 1989, and amendment No. 1 thereto filed June 21, 1989, which
            Registration Statement became effective June 22, 1989.)

 10.18* Full Recourse Promissory Note and Pledge Agreement between the Company 
            and Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.19 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
            the year ended April 2, 1993.)

 10.19* Form of Promissory Note and Pledge Agreement between the Company and 
            certain executives.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 
            filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
            year ended April 2, 1993.)

 10.20* Form of Housing Assistance Agreement between the Company and certain 
            executives. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 filed with 
            the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-35385) 
            initially filed June 13, 1990.)

 10.21  Agreement and Plan of Reorganization between Symantec Acquisition Corp.
            and Fifth Generation Systems, Inc. dated August 30, 1993 and related
            Agreement of Merger. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.01 
            filed with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
            October 19, 1993.)

 10.22  Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among Symantec 
            Corporation, Symantec Acquisition Corp. and Central Point Software,
            Inc. dated March 31, 1994. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.27 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
            year ended April 1, 1994.)

 10.23  Agreement of Purchase and Sale of Assets among DataEase International, 
            Inc., DataEase Sapphire International Group, N.V. and Symantec 
            Corporation dated September 2, 1993. (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.31 filed with the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 
            10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1993.)  (Confidential 
            treatment has been granted with respect to portions of this 
            exhibit.)

 10.24  Note Purchase Agreement, dated April 2, 1993, among Symantec 
            Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee,
            J. P. Morgan Investments Management, Inc., as Investment Manager
            and The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, including Form 
            of Convertible Subordinated Notes.  (Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.30 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
            10-K for the year ended April 2, 1993.)

 10.25* The Registrant's Section 401(k) Plan, as amended.  (Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 10.25 filed with the Registrants Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 1995.)

 10.26* Form of Executive Compensation Agreement between the Company and certain
            executives.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 filed with
            the Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March
            31, 1995.)

 10.27  Assignment of Copyright and Other Intellectual Property Rights. 
            (Incorporated by reference to appendix to Prospectus/Proxy Statement
            filed with the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-4 
            (No. 33-35385) initially filed June 13, 1990.)

- ------------------------
*Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




 10.28* Employment and Consulting Agreement among Symantec Corporation, 
            Symantec Acquisition Corp. and Charles M. Boesenberg.  
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 filed with the 
            Registrant's Annual Report of Form 10-K for the year ended April 1,
            1994.) (Confidential treatment has been granted with respect to 
            portions of this exhibit.)

 10.29* Stock Option Grant between the Company and Charles Boesenberg.  
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 filed with the 
            Registrants Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
            March 31, 1995.)

 10.30  Authorized Distributor Agreement between Symantec Corporation and 
            Ingram Micro, Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 
            filed with the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the 
            quarter ended July 1, 1994.) (Confidential treatment has been 
            granted with respect to portions of this exhibit.)

 10.31  Authorized Distributor Agreement between Symantec Corporation and 
            Merisel Americas, Inc.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.35 filed with the Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q 
            for the quarter ended July 1, 1994.) (Confidential treatment has 
            been granted with respect to portions of this exhibit.)

 10.32  Stipulation of Settlement in the case of Ayln J. Scheatzle, et al. vs. 
            Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr., et al. and Symantec Corporation. 
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 filed with the 
            Registrant's Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
            July 1, 1994.)

 10.33* Employment and Non-competition Agreement between Symantec Corporation 
            and Dennis Bennie.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.02 
            filed with the Registrants Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 
            quarter ended December 29, 1995.)

 10.34  Combination Agreement between Symantec Corporation and Delrina 
            Corporation dated July 5, 1995.  (Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.01 filed with the Registrants Quarterly Report on 
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.)

 10.35  Class action complaint filed by the law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad 
            Hynes & Lerach in Superior Court of the State of California, County
            of Santa Clara against the Company and several of its current and 
            former officers and directors.

 11.01  Computation of Net Income (Loss) Per Share.

 21.01  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

 23.01  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

 23.02  Consent of Price Waterhouse, Independent Auditors.

 27.01  Financial Data Schedule.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K
    None

(c) Exhibits:
    The Registrant hereby files as part of this Form 10-K the exhibits listed 
    in Item 14(a)3, as set forth above.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules:
    The Registrant hereby files as part of this Form 10-K the schedule listed 
    in Item 14(a)2, as set forth on page 61.

- -------------------------
*Indicates a management contract or compensatiory plan or arrangement.




INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . . . . . . . . . . .     40

Report of Price Waterhouse, Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . .     41

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1996 and 1995. . . . . . . .     42

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     43

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     44

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended
March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     45

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     46

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     49




REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Symantec Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Symantec 
Corporation as of March 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated 
statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the 
three years in the period ended March 31, 1996.  Our audits also included the 
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a).  These 
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's 
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our audits.  We did 
not audit the financial statements or schedule of Delrina Corporation, which 
statements reflect total assets and net income constituting 29% and 14%, 
respectively, of the related 1995 consolidated financial statement totals, 
and which statements reflect net income of approximately $12.7 million 
related to the 1994 consolidated net loss.  Those statements were audited by 
other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, 
insofar as it relates to data included for Delrina Corporation, is based 
solely on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the 
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material 
respects, the consolidated financial position of Symantec Corporation at 
March 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of its operations and 
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 
1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in 
our opinion, based upon our audits and the report of other auditors, the 
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the 
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material 
respects the information set forth therein.

                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Jose, California
April 24, 1996




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

August 8, 1995

Auditors' Report

To the Shareholders of Delrina Corporation

We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of Delrina Corporation as at June
30, 1995 and the consolidated statements of operations, retained earnings
(deficit) and changes in financial position for the years ended June 30, 1995
and 1994, all expressed in Canadian dollars.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform an audit to obtain reasonable
assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.

In our opinion, these consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Delrina Corporation as at June 30,
1995 and the results of its operations and the changes in its financial position
for the years ended June 30, 1995 and 1994 in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in Canada.

PRICE WATERHOUSE
Chartered Accountants




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.





SYMANTEC CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS




The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.






SYMANTEC CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY





The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.







SYMANTEC CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW




The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.





SYMANTEC CORPORATION
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

BUSINESS

Symantec develops, markets and supports a diversified line of application and
system software products designed to enhance individual and workgroup
productivity as well as manage networked computing environments.  Principal
products include advanced utilities, security utilities, network/communications
utilities, fax, contact management, development tools and consumer/productivity
applications.  Customers consist primarily of corporations, higher education
institutions, government agencies and individual users, which are mainly located
in North America, Europe, Asia/Pacific and Latin America.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Symantec Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries ("Symantec" or the
"Company").  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

During fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, Symantec acquired various companies in
transactions accounted for as poolings of interest.  Accordingly, all financial
information has been restated to reflect the combined operations of Symantec and
the acquired companies with the exception of Intec Systems Corporation and SLR
Systems, Inc.  The results of operations of Intec and SLR were not material to
Symantec's consolidated financial statements, and therefore, amounts prior to
the year of acquisition were not combined with Symantec's financial statements.

Symantec has a 52/53-week fiscal accounting year.  Accordingly, all references
as of and for the periods ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 reflect amounts as
of and for the periods ended March 29, 1996, March 31, 1995 and April 1, 1994,
respectively.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

In general, the functional currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is the
local currency.  Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated using the exchange rate on the balance sheet dates.  The cumulative
translation adjustments resulting from this process are shown separately as a
component of stockholders' equity.  Revenues and expenses are translated using
average exchange rates prevailing during the year.  Foreign currency transaction
gains and losses are not material and are included in the determination of net
income (loss).

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Symantec recognizes revenue upon shipment when no significant vendor obligations
remain and collection of the receivable, net of provisions for estimated future
returns, is probable.  Prior to fiscal 1994, Central Point generally recognized
revenue upon shipment, along with a provision for estimated returns.  Due to
significant changes in the market's perception of Central Point's long-term
viability and the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization signed by Symantec and
Central Point in fiscal 1994, Central Point was no longer able to reasonably
estimate future returns from distributors and resellers.  In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 48, revenue and the related cost
of revenue for 1994 for software shipments to these distributors and resellers
was deferred until sold by the distributor or reseller to the end user. This
revenue and cost of revenue deferral resulted in a decrease in North American
net revenues of approximately $5.0 million and international net revenues of
approximately $10.0 million and an increase in the fiscal 1994 loss before
provision for income taxes of approximately $12.3 million.  Symantec later
analyzed returns related to the Central Point products for the prior eight
quarters to determine when such products were being sold through to end users. 
As the result of this analysis of the remaining Central Point products in the
distribution channel, Symantec recognized approximately $3.0 million of North
American net revenues in the March 1995 quarter and $7.2 million of
international net revenues in the June 1995 quarter that had been previously
deferred by Central Point.

Revenues related to significant post-contract support agreements (generally
product maintenance agreements) are deferred and recognized over the period of
the agreements.  The estimated cost of providing insignificant post-




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

contract support (generally telephone support) is accrued at the time of the
sale and is included in sales and marketing expense.  Technical support costs
included in sales and marketing expense were $34.5 million, $28.0 million and
$26.8 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

Symantec considers investments in highly liquid instruments purchased with an
original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents.  All of the
Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments, consisting principally of
commercial paper, corporate notes and certificates of deposit, are classified as
available-for-sale as of the balance sheet date.  These securities are reported
at amortized cost, which approximates fair value, and therefore, there are no
unrealized gains and losses included in stockholders' equity.  Realized gains
and losses and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary are included
in interest income.  The cost of securities sold is based upon the specific
identification method.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is principally
determined using currently adjusted standards, which approximate actual cost on
a first-in, first-out basis.

EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS

Equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization is provided on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets,
generally the shorter of the lease term or three to seven years.

PURCHASED INTANGIBLES

Purchased intangibles are comprised of acquired software ("product rights") and
are stated at cost less accumulated amortization.  Amortization is provided on
the greater of the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
respective assets, generally three to five years, or on the basis of the ratio
of current revenues to current revenues plus anticipated future revenues.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES

Research and development expenditures are charged to operations as incurred. 
Financial accounting rules requiring capitalization of certain software
development costs have not materially affected the Company, except for amounts
capitalized by Delrina prior to its acquisition by Symantec.  Delrina did not
capitalize any software development costs in fiscal 1996 and capitalized $6.3
million and $2.6 million in software development costs in fiscal years 1995 and
1994, respectively.  The related amortization expense was $5.6 million, $4.0
million and $1.9 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are computed in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."

NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

Net income (loss) per share is calculated using the treasury stock or the
modified treasury stock method, as applicable, if dilutive.  Common stock
equivalents are attributable to outstanding stock options.  Fully diluted
earnings per share includes the assumed conversion of all of the outstanding
convertible subordinated debentures.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

The Company's product revenues are concentrated in the personal computer
software industry, which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. 
Significant technological changes in the industry or customer requirements, or
the emergence of competitive products with new capabilities or technologies,
could adversely affect operating results.  In addition, a significant portion of
the Company's revenue and net income is derived from international sales and
independent agents and distributors.  Fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against
foreign currencies, changes in local regulatory or economic conditions, piracy
or nonperformance by independent agents or distributors could adversely affect
operating results.

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of short-term investments and trade accounts
receivable.  The Company's investment portfolio is diversified and




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

consists of investment grade A-1/P-1 securities.  The credit risk in the
Company's trade accounts receivable is substantially mitigated by the Company's
credit evaluation process, reasonably short collection terms and the
geographical dispersion of sales transactions.

ADVERTISING

Advertising expenditures are charged to operations as incurred except for
certain direct mail campaigns which are capitalized and amortized over the
expected period of benefit or twelve months, whichever is shorter.  Capitalized
advertising costs have not been material in all periods presented.  Advertising
expense for fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994 was approximately $43.0 million, $41.0
million and $38.6 million, respectively.

RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS

During March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS No. 121"), which requires the review for
impairment of long-lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles and goodwill
related to those assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  In certain
situations, an impairment loss would be recognized.  The Company does not
believe that adoption of SFAS No. 121, which will become effective for the
Company's 1997 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its financial
condition or operating results.

During October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123").  This
standard, which establishes a fair value-based method for stock-based
compensation plans, also permits an election to continue following the
requirements of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
with disclosures of pro-forma net income and earnings per share under the new
method.  The Company will continue following the requirements of APB Opinion No.
25, with disclosure of pro-forma information.  The disclosure requirements of
SFAS No. 123 will be effective for the Company's 1997 fiscal year.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
current presentation format.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION






SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


NOTE 2.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND PURCHASED PRODUCT RIGHTS

During the three fiscal years ended March 31, 1996, Symantec completed
acquisitions of the following companies: 



*    Includes Delrina exchangeable stock that is traded on the Toronto Stock
     Exchange.  Delrina stockholders received Delrina exchangeable stock in
     exchange for Delrina common shares at a rate of 0.61 per share.  Delrina
     exchangeable stock may be converted at any time into Symantec common stock
     on a one-for-one basis at each stockholder's option.

All of these acquisitions were accounted for as poolings of interest.  In
connection with the acquisitions of the companies listed above, Symantec
incurred significant acquisition expenses (See Note 10).  Due to differing year
ends of Symantec, Delrina and Fifth Generation, financial information for
dissimilar fiscal year ends was combined.  Delrina's fiscal years ended June 30,
1995 and 1994 were combined with Symantec's fiscal years ended March 31, 1995
and 1994, respectively.  Accordingly, Delrina's results of operations for the
quarter ended June 30, 1995 were duplicated in the combined statements of
operations for fiscal 1996 and 1995 and Delrina's net loss for the quarter ended
June 30, 1995 was credited to stockholder's equity.  Delrina reported net
revenues of $19.8 million and net loss of $4.8 million in the quarter ended June
30, 1995.  Fifth Generation's fiscal year ended December 31, 1992 was combined
with Symantec's fiscal year ended March 31, 1993.  Accordingly, Fifth
Generation's results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 1993 were
charged to stockholders' equity.  Fifth Generation's net loss of $16.4 million
for the quarter ended March 31, 1993 was largely due to the decline in net
revenues to $1.9 million and the write-off of previously capitalized software
costs.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

The table below sets forth the composition of combined net revenues and net
income (loss) for the pre-acquisition periods indicated.  Information for the
year ended March 31, 1996 with respect to Delrina reflects the period ended
November 22, 1995, the date Delrina was acquired.



On December 31, 1993, Symantec acquired certain technology for developing an
architecture and tools to build client-server applications from DataEase
International, Inc. in exchange for 391,456 shares of Symantec common stock and
cancellation of the principal and accrued interest on a $1.0 million outstanding
note receivable.  The Company capitalized approximately $7.7 million of
purchased product rights as a result of this transaction.  During fiscal 1996
the Company wrote off the remaining unamortized cost and licensed the product
rights for an immaterial amount.

NOTE 3.  CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

All cash equivalents and short-term investments have been classified as
available-for-sale securities and are reported at amortized cost, which
approximates fair value, and therefore, no material unrealized gains and losses
have been included in stockholders' equity.  As of March 31, 1996 and 1995, the
estimated fair value of these securities consisted of the following:



All of the Company's available-for-sale securities as of March 31, 1996 have a
contractual maturity of one year or less.  For the year ended March 31, 1996,
there were no material sales of available-for-sale securities.  Fair values of
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments approximate cost due to the
short period to maturity.

Symantec utilizes some natural hedging to mitigate the Company's transaction
exposures, and effective December 31, 1993, the Company commenced hedging some
residual transaction exposures through the use of one-month foreign exchange
forward contracts.  The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts
with financial institutions primarily to protect against currency exchange risks
associated with certain firmly committed transactions.  Fair value of foreign
exchange forward contracts are based on quoted market prices.  At
March 31, 1996, there was a total notional amount of approximately $96.5 million
of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts all of which mature in 35 days
or less.  The net liability of forward contracts was a notional amount of
approximately $85.5 million at March 31, 1996.  The fair value of foreign
currency exchange forward contracts approximates cost due to the short maturity
periods and the minimal fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate.  The
Company does not hedge its translation risk.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

NOTE 4.  CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES

On April 2, 1993, the Company issued convertible subordinated debentures
totaling $25.0 million.  The debentures bear interest at 7.75% payable
semiannually and are convertible into Symantec common stock at $12 per share at
the option of the investor.  The debentures are due in three equal annual
installments beginning in 1999 and are redeemable at the option of the investors
in the event of a change in control of Symantec or the sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company.  Symantec, at its option, may
redeem the notes at any time on 30 to 60 days notice.  The holders are entitled
to certain registration rights relating to the shares of common stock resulting
from the conversion of the debentures.  The Company reserved 2,083,333 shares of
common stock to be issued upon conversion of these debentures.  The debentures
limit the payment of cash dividends and the repurchase of capital stock to a
total of $10.0 million plus 25% of cumulative net income subsequent to April 2,
1993.

On April 26, 1995, convertible subordinated debentures totaling $10.0 million
were converted into 833,333 shares of Symantec common stock, leaving 1,250,000
shares of common stock reserved for future conversion as of March 31, 1996.

The estimated fair value of the $15.0 million convertible subordinated
debentures was approximately $16.1 million at March 31, 1996.  The estimated
fair value was based on the total shares of common stock reserved for issuance
upon conversion of the debentures at the closing price of the Company's common
stock at March 31, 1996, which exceeded the conversion price of $12 per share.

NOTE 5.  LINE OF CREDIT

The Company has a $10.0 million bank line of credit that expires in March 
1998. The line of credit is available for general corporate purposes and 
bears interest at the banks' reference (prime) interest rate (8.25% at March 
31, 1996), the U.S. offshore rate plus 1.25%, a CD rate plus 1.25% or LIBOR 
plus 1.25%, at the Company's discretion.  The line of credit requires bank 
approval for the payment of cash dividends.  Borrowings under this line are 
unsecured and are subject to the Company maintaining certain financial ratios 
and profits. The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants 
as of March 31, 1996.  At March 31, 1996, there was approximately $0.4 
million of standby letters of credit outstanding under this line of credit.  
There were no borrowings outstanding under this line at March 31, 1996.

NOTE 6.  COMMITMENTS

Symantec leases all of its facilities and certain equipment under operating
leases that expire at various dates through 2026.

The future fiscal year minimum operating lease commitments were as follows at
March 31, 1996:

(In thousands)
- ---------------------------------------
1997                                          $  12,749
1998                                             11,738
1999                                              8,257
2000                                              6,980
2001                                              3,883
Thereafter                                       12,006
                                              ---------
                                              $  55,613
                                              ---------
                                              ---------

Rent expense charged to operations totaled $11.3 million, $9.7 million and $9.8
million for the years ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

NOTE 7.  INCOME TAXES

The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes were as follows:



The difference between the Company's effective income tax rate and the federal 
statutory income tax rate as a percentage of income (loss) before income taxes 
was as follows:



The principal components of deferred tax assets were as follows:







SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
 Approximately $19.7 million of the valuation allowance for deferred tax 
assets is attributable to stock option deductions, the benefit of which will 
be credited to equity when realized.  Approximately $18.1 million of the 
valuation allowance relates to losses and temporary differences associated 
with Delrina and the remaining $7.9 million of the valuation allowance 
represents net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of other acquired 
companies that are limited by separate return limitations and under the 
"change of ownership" rules of Internal Revenue Code Section 382.  The change 
in the valuation allowance for the years ended March 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 
were net increases of $14.8 million, $1.6 million and $27.4 million, 
respectively. 

Pretax income (loss) from international operations was approximately $(4.1) 
million, $25.9 million and $18.8 million for the years ended March 31, 1996, 
1995 and 1994, respectively. 

At March 31, 1996, the Company had tax credit carryforwards of $7.9 million 
that expire in fiscal 1997 through 2011 and net operating loss carryforwards 
of $50.8 million that expire in fiscal 1999 through 2011.

NOTE 8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

401(K) PLAN

Symantec maintains a salary deferral 401(k) plan for all of its domestic
employees.  The plan allows employees to contribute up to 15% of their pretax
salary up to the maximum dollar limitation prescribed by the Internal Revenue
Code.  Symantec matches 50% of employees' contributions up to 6% of the
employees' eligible compensation.  Company contributions under the plan were
$1.5 million, $1.2 million and $1.1 million for the years ended March 31, 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.

STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

In October 1989, the Company established the 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
and has reserved 2.0 million shares of common stock for issuance under the plan,
including an increase of 500,000 shares approved by Symantec stockholders in
fiscal 1996.  Subject to certain limitations, Symantec employees may purchase,
through payroll deductions of 2 to 10% of compensation, shares of common stock
at a price per share that is the lesser of 85% of the fair market value as of
the beginning of the offering period or the end of the purchase period.  As of
March 31, 1996, approximately 1.4 million shares had been issued under the plan.

STOCK OPTION PLANS

As of March 31, 1996, the Company has reserved 14.8 million shares of its common
stock for issuance as incentive and nonqualified stock options to employees,
officers, directors, consultants and independent contractors, including an
increase of 1.0 million shares approved in fiscal 1996 by Symantec's
stockholders for issuance under the 1988 Employees Stock Option Plan.  Options
under the Company's option plans may be granted at prices not less than 100% of
fair market value on the date of grant, have a maximum term of ten years and
generally vest over a four-year period.  In addition, the Company has reserved
an additional 1.2 million shares of its common stock for issuance under acquired
company option plans and acquired company warrants.

During March 1996, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to offer to
each employee with stock options having an exercise price greater than $13.10
(the "Old Options") the opportunity to cancel the affected grants and receive a
new grant for the same number of shares dated March 4, 1996 (the "New Options").
The New Options have an exercise price equal to $13.10.  Under the terms of this
stock option cancellation and regrant, all options began vesting as of the new
grant date and no portion of any regranted option may be exercised until
March 4, 1997.  Options representing a total of approximately 2.3 million shares
of common stock were canceled and regranted.  The President and Chief Executive
Officer, the Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Chief Financial
Officer, the majority of the members of the Executive Staff, and all members of
the Board of Directors elected to exclude themselves from this stock option
cancellation and regrant.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

On March 4, 1996, the Board of Directors also approved the 1996 Equity Incentive
Plan (the "Plan"), the purpose of which is to provide incentives to attract,
retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions
are important to the success of Symantec by offering them an opportunity to
participate in the Company's future performance through awards of options and
stock bonuses.  This Plan is intended to replace the 1988 Option Plan, which the
Board terminated as of stockholder approval of the Plan.  The Plan will be
administered by either the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the
Board of Directors.  Awards under the Plan may be granted to employees,
officers, directors, consultants, independent contractors and advisors of
Symantec (or of any parent, subsidiary or affiliate of Symantec as the Board of
Directors or committee may determine).  On May 14, 1996, the stockholders of
Symantec approved the Plan, including the allocation of approximately 2.7
million shares to be made available for the grant of such awards.  As of
March 31, 1996, no awards were outstanding under the Plan.

During fiscal 1996, Symantec also registered 400,000 shares to be issued under
the terms of the 1994 Patent Incentive Plan.  The purpose of this plan is to
increase awareness of the increasing importance of patents to Symantec's
business and to provide employees with incentives to pursue patent protection
for new technologies that may be valuable to the Company.  The Company's
executive officers are not eligible for awards under the 1994 Patent Incentive
Plan.  As of March 31, 1996, approximately 4,000 shares had been issued under
this plan.

Stock option and warrant activity was as follows:





NOTE 9.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

As part of the acquisition of Peter Norton Computing, Incorporated ("Norton") in
fiscal 1991, Symantec assumed Norton's perpetual exclusive license agreement
with Mr. Norton, a member of Symantec's Board of Directors until his resignation
on September 27, 1994, to use his name and image for computer software products.
Under the terms of the license, Mr. Norton is entitled to receive a royalty
equal to the greater of 1% of net sales or 0.4% of the suggested retail price of
products bearing Mr. Norton's name.  Mr. Norton may terminate the agreement if
Symantec fails to pay Mr. Norton an average of at least $30,000 of royalties in
any three consecutive years.  Royalty expense under the agreement was $2.9
million, $1.9 million and $1.6 million for the years ended March 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively.




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

Additionally, in connection with certain indemnification agreements entered into
as part of the acquisition of Norton, Mr. Norton agreed to reimburse Symantec
for certain litigation and acquisition costs in excess of specified amounts.

The net amount payable to Mr. Norton pursuant to these agreements at
March 31, 1996 and 1995 was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

NOTE 10.  ACQUISITION, RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER EXPENSES

Acquisition, restructuring and other expense consists of the following:



In connection with the acquisition of Delrina (See Note 2) in fiscal 1996,
Symantec recorded total acquisition charges of $22.0 million, which included
$8.8 million for legal, accounting and financial advisory services, $6.4 million
for the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities and equipment, $3.7
million for personnel severance and outplacement expenses and $3.1 million for
the consolidation and discontinuance of certain operational activities and other
acquisition-related expenses.

In November, 1995, Symantec sold the assets of Time Line Solutions Corporation,
a wholly-owned subsidiary, to a group comprised of Time Line Solution
Corporation's management and incurred a $2.7 million loss on the sale.

During fiscal 1996, Symantec expensed $1.0 million, which included a loss on the
sale of certain assets and liabilities of a subsidiary and other expenses.

In February 1995, Symantec announced a plan to consolidate certain research and
development activities.  This plan was designed to gain greater synergy between
the Company's Third Generation Language and Fourth Generation Language
development groups.  During fiscal 1996, the Company incurred $2.2 million for
the relocation costs of moving equipment and personnel.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company recorded $2.0 million in
estimated legal fees expected to be incurred in connection with a securities
class action complaint filed in March 1996 and other legal expenses (See
Note 11).

In connection with the acquisitions of Central Point and SLR (See Note 2),
Symantec recorded total acquisition charges of $9.5 million in fiscal 1995.  The
charges included $3.2 million for legal, accounting and financial advisory
services, $1.0 million for the write-off of duplicative product-related expenses
and modification of certain development contracts, $0.9 million for the
elimination of duplicative and excess facilities, $3.1 million for personnel
severance and outplacement expenses and $1.3 million for the consolidation and
discontinuance of certain operational activities and other acquisition related
expenses.  During fiscal 1996, the Company recognized a 




SYMANTEC CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

reduction in accrued acquisition, restructuring and other expenses of $2.3
million as actual costs incurred were less than costs previously accrued by the
Company.

In connection with the acquisitions of Fifth Generation and Contact by Symantec
and the acquisition of XTree by Central Point (See Note 2), the Company recorded
total charges of $25.9 million in fiscal 1994.  The charges included $4.3
million for legal, accounting and financial advisory services, $7.6 million for
the write-off of duplicative product related expenses and modification of
certain development contracts, $3.6 million for the elimination of duplicative
and excess facilities, $5.3 million for personnel severance and outplacement
expenses and $5.1 million for the consolidation and discontinuance of certain
operational activities and other acquisition related expenses.

During fiscal 1994, Symantec implemented a plan to consolidate and centralize
certain operational activities.  This plan was designed to reduce operating
expenses and enhance operational efficiencies by centralizing certain order
administration, technical support and customer service activities in Eugene,
Oregon.  The Company recorded a charge of $4.7 million, which included $1.1
million for the elimination of duplicative and excess facilities, $1.5 million
for the relocation of the Company's existing operations and equipment, $1.1
million for employee relocation expenses and $1.0 million for employee severance
payments.  This centralization has been completed.

During fiscal 1994, Central Point incurred $16.0 million of expenses related to
the restructuring of its operations in order to reduce its overall cost
structure and to redirect its software development and marketing efforts away
from the personal desktop computer market toward personal computer network
markets.  The charge included $6.2 million for employee severance, outplacement
and relocation expenses, $5.6 million for the write-off of certain excess fixed
and intangible assets, $1.8 million for lease abandonments and facility
relocation and $2.4 million for the consolidation and discontinuance of certain
operational activities and other related expenses.  Of the total charges, $5.9
million resulted from the write-off of assets and $10.1 million involved cash
outflows.  This restructuring has been completed.

As of March 31, 1996, total accrued cash related acquisition and restructuring
expenses were $7.8 million and included $2.0 million for estimated legal fees
and expenses, $3.5 million for the elimination of duplicative and excess
facilities and $2.3 million for the consolidation and discontinuance of certain
operational activities and other acquisition related expenses.

During fiscal 1994, Central Point purchased from unrelated parties certain in-
process software technologies for approximately $3.0 million which was
immediately expensed.

During fiscal 1994, Symantec reached an agreement with the plaintiffs and
Symantec's insurance carriers to settle two securities class action lawsuits and
a related derivative lawsuit brought by stockholders of Symantec.  The combined
settlement amount of the cases was $19.0 million, approximately $12.5 million of
which was paid by Symantec's insurance carriers.  Symantec recorded a charge of
$6.5 million representing Symantec's portion of the class action settlement.

NOTE 11.  LITIGATION

On March 18, 1996, a class action complaint was filed by the law firm of Milberg
Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach in Superior Court of the State of California,
County of Santa Clara against the Company and several of its current and former
officers and directors.  The complaint alleges that Symantec insiders inflated
the stock price and then sold stock based on inside information that sales were
not going to meet analysts' expectations.  The complaint seeks damages in an
unspecified amount.  Symantec believes the complaint has no merit and will
vigorously defend itself.  The Company has accrued certain estimated legal fees
and expenses related to this matter; however, actual amounts may differ
materially from those estimated amounts.

On December 30, 1994, Software Engineering Carmel ("Carmel") filed a lawsuit in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon against Central Point, a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  Carmel developed and maintains the
anti-virus program distributed by Central Point.  The complaint alleges that
Central Point breached its contract with Carmel by not fulfilling an implied
obligation under the contract to use its best efforts or alternatively, its
reasonable efforts, to market the anti-virus program developed by Carmel.  The
complaint also alleges that Central Point violated the non-competition provision
in its agreement by selling a competing anti-virus program, 




apparently based on Symantec's sale of its own anti-virus product.  The
complaint seeks damages in the amount of $6.75 million and a release of Carmel
from its obligation not to sell competing products.  A trial date has been set
for July 1996.  Symantec believes the complaint has no merit.

On September 3, 1992, Borland International, Inc. ("Borland") filed a lawsuit in
the Superior Court for Santa Cruz County, California against Symantec, Gordon E.
Eubanks, Jr. (Symantec's President and Chief Executive Officer) and Eugene Wang
(a former Executive Vice President of Symantec who is a former employee of
Borland).  The complaint, as amended, alleges misappropriation of trade secrets,
unfair competition, including breach of contract, interference with prospective
economic advantage and unjust enrichment.  Borland alleged that prior to joining
Symantec, Mr. Wang transmitted to Mr. Eubanks confidential information
concerning Borland's product and marketing plans.  Borland claims damages in an
unspecified amount.  Symantec has denied the allegations of Borland's complaint
and contends that Borland has suffered no damages from the alleged actions. 
Borland obtained a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction
prohibiting the defendants from using, disseminating or destroying any Borland
proprietary information or trade secrets.  Symantec filed a cross complaint
against Borland alleging that Borland had committed abuse of process and
defamation in publishing statements that Symantec had acted in contempt of a
temporary restraining order.  The case is not being actively prosecuted at this
time pending the outcome of the criminal proceedings, discussed below.  Symantec
believes that Borland's claims have no merit.

On September 2, 1992, the Scotts Valley, California police department, operating
with search warrants for Borland proprietary and trade secret information,
searched Symantec's offices and the homes of Messrs. Eubanks and Wang and
removed documents and other materials.  On February 26, 1993, criminal
indictments were filed against Messrs. Eubanks and Wang for allegedly violating
various California Penal Code Sections relating to the misappropriation of trade
secrets and unauthorized access to a computer system.  On August 23, 1993, the
Court recused the District Attorney's Office from prosecution of the action.  On
October 5, 1993, the State Attorney General and the District Attorney's Office
filed a Notice of Appeal of the Order, and that appeal was argued on July 11,
1995.  On September 8, 1995, the Court of Appeals reversed the recusal order.  A
petition for review of this decision by the California Supreme Court was granted
on December 14, 1995.   Symantec believes the criminal charges against Messrs.
Eubanks and Wang have no merit.

On June 11, 1992, Dynamic Microprocessor Associates, Inc. ("DMA"), a former
wholly-owned subsidiary of Symantec which has since been merged into Symantec,
commenced an action against EKD Computer Sales & Supplies Corporation ("EKD"), a
former licensee of DMA and Thomas Green, a principal of EKD, for copyright
infringement, violations of the Lanham Act, trademark infringement,
misappropriation, deceptive acts and practices, unfair competition and breach of
contract.  On July 14, 1992, the Suffolk County, New York sheriff's department
conducted a search of EKD's premises and seized and impounded thousands of
infringing articles.  On July 21, 1992, the Court issued a preliminary
injunction against EKD and Mr. Green, enjoining them from manufacturing,
marketing, distributing, copying or purporting to license DMA's pcANYWHERE III
or using DMA's marks.

On July 20, 1992 and in a subsequent amendment, EKD and Mr. Green answered
Symantec's complaint denying all liability and asserting counterclaims against
Symantec and Lee Rautenberg, a former principal of DMA.  In May 1993, EKD and
Mr. Green were granted permission to file a Second Amended Answer and
Counterclaims that dropped every previously raised claim and instead alleged
that DMA obtained the temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction in
bad faith and that DMA, Symantec and Mr. Rautenberg breached certain license
agreements and violated certain federal and New York State antitrust laws.  In
February 1995, DMA was granted leave to file an Amended Complaint, which EKD
subsequently responded to by a Third Amended Answer and Counterclaims virtually
identical to EKD's Second Amended pleading.  Symantec believes the charges made
by EKD and Mr. Green have no merit.

Symantec is involved in a number of other judicial and administrative
proceedings incidental to its business.  The Company intends to defend all of
the aforementioned pending lawsuits vigorously and although adverse decisions
(or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, the final resolution of
these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.  However,
depending on the amount and timing of an unfavorable resolution of these
lawsuits, it is possible that the Company's future results of operations or cash
flows could be materially adversely affected in a particular period.




NOTE 12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

Symantec operates in the microcomputer software industry business segment.  The
Company markets its products in North America and international countries
primarily through retail and distribution channels.

INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA



Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
representative of unaffiliated party transactions.

SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS

The following customers accounted for more than 10% of net revenues during
fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994:







                                   SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   SYMANTEC CORPORATION

                                        (Registrant)
                                   By   /s/ Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.    
                                        ------------------------------
                                        (Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.,
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer)

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated below.

       Signature                  Title                           Date
- ------------------------------    --------------------------     --------------
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

/s/ Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.        President, Chief Executive      June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------    Officer and Director
(Gordon E. Eubanks, Jr.)

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER:

/s/ Robert R. B. Dykes            Executive Vice President/       June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------    Worldwide Operations and
 (Robert R. B. Dykes)             Chief Financial Officer

CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

/s/ Howard A. Bain III            Vice President Finance and      June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------    Chief Accounting Officer
 (Howard A. Bain III)             

DIRECTORS:

/s/ Charles M. Boesenberg         Director                        June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------
(Charles M. Boesenberg)


/s/ Walter W. Bregman             Director                        June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------
  (Walter W. Bregman)

                                  Chairman of the Board           June __, 1996
- ------------------------------
   (Carl D. Carman)

/s/ Robert S. Miller              Director                        June 24, 1996
- ------------------------------
  (Robert S. Miller)

- ------------------------------    Director                        June __, 1996
  (Leslie L. Vadasz)






                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                              SYMANTEC CORPORATION
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)









 

