Item 1.  Business



Emerson
was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer
of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having
expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisitions, Emerson
today is designing and supplying product technology and delivering engineering
services and solutions in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer
markets around the world.



Emerson
is organized into the following business segments, based on the nature of the
products and services rendered:



·Process
      Management- providing measurement, control and diagnostic
      capabilities for automated industrial processes producing items such as
      foods, fuels, medicines and power.



·Industrial
      Automation- bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse
      industries worldwide.



·Network Power-
      providing power conditioning and reliability and environmental control to
      help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and other critical
      business applications continuously
operating.



·Climate
      Technologies- enhancing household and commercial comfort as well
      as food safety and energy efficiency through air conditioning and
      refrigeration technology.



·Tools and
      Storage- providing tools for professionals and homeowners, home
      and commercial storage systems, and appliance
  solutions.



Sales,
earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each
segment for the three years ended September 30, 2010, are set forth in Note 16
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference. Sales by segment in 2010 were Process
Management 28 percent, Industrial Automation 20 percent, Network Power 27
percent, Climate Technologies 17 percent, and Tools and Storage 8 percent. Sales
by geographic destination in 2010 were United States 43 percent, Europe 21
percent, Asia 23 percent and other regions 13 percent. Information with respect
to acquisition and divestiture activities and rationalization of operations by
Emerson is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by
reference.



PROCESS
MANAGEMENT



The
Process Management segment offers customers product technology as well as
engineering and project management services for precision control, monitoring
and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and plants that produce power
or that process or treat such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food
and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies.
This array of products and services helps customers optimize their plant
capabilities in the areas of plant safety and reliability, and product quality
and output. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for this segment were
United States 33 percent, Europe 23 percent, Asia 23 percent and other regions
21 percent.



Process
Management Systems and Software



Process
Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and
analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then using that
information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware
for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also
include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for
production






optimization.
Emerson’s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile
workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking
of people and assets, enable video monitoring and communicate with wireless
field devices, thereby increasing the information available to
operators.



Measurement
and Analytical Instrumentation



Measurement
instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a
process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, or rate and amount of
flow, and communicates this information to the control system. Measurement
technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic
flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid
measurement, temperature sensors and radar-based tank gauging. Emerson
measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such
as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise
metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset
management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase
meters, wetgas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion
instruments.



Analytical
instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and
emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental
compliance. Emerson’s analytical technologies include process gas
chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid
analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH,
conductivity and water quality.



Emerson
also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability.
This allows customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not
measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the
cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants.



Valves,
Actuators and Regulators



Control
valves respond to commands from the control system by continuously and precisely
modulating the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and
product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves, butterfly
valves and related valve actuators and controllers. Emerson also provides a line
of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the
pressure of fluids such as liquid natural gas and liquid petroleum gas for
transfer from high-pressure supply lines to lower pressure systems.



PlantWeb®Digital
Plant Architecture



Emerson’s
PlantWebdigital
plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages
of “intelligent” plant devices (valves and measurement instruments that have
advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (non-proprietary
wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the control
system to “talk” with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to
better control the process but also to collect and analyze valuable information
about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the ability to
detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the impact
they can have on plant operations. The PlantWebarchitecture
provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also
furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards
compliance, and to reduce startup, operations and maintenance
costs.



Industry
Services and Solutions



Emerson’s
array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve
automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability
and productivity, and reduce total cost of ownership. Global industry centers
offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract
maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation
assets. These centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper,
chemical, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist
customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant
inefficiencies.






Distribution



The
principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is a
direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives, and
to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for
resale are also utilized. The majority of sales in the United States are made
through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent
sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are almost exclusively made
through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent
sales representatives and distributors.



Brands



Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process
Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV,
EIM, El-O-Matic, Enable, Epro, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion,
Ovation, PlantWeb, RMS, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService,
Tescom, TopWorx and Valvetop.



INDUSTRIAL
AUTOMATION



The
Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to our
customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include
motors, power transmission solutions, alternators, fluid controls and materials
joining equipment. Through these offerings, Emerson brings technology and
enhanced quality to the customer’s final product. In 2010, sales by geographic
destination for this segment were United States 37 percent, Europe 38 percent,
Asia 16 percent and other regions 9 percent.



Motors
and Drives



Emerson
provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in a wide
variety of manufacturing operations and products, including production assembly
lines, escalators in shopping malls and supermarket checkout stations. Products
in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC)
electrical variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control
systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower
motors (less than 1 HP), hermetic motors and gear drives.



Power
Transmission



Emerson’s
power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm
gearing, gear motors, motor sheaves, pulleys, mounted and unmounted bearings,
couplings, chains and sprockets. They are used to transmit power mechanically in
a wide range of manufacturing and material handling operations and products. Our
design and application experience enable us to provide both standard and
customized automation and power transmission solutions to our
customers.



Power
Generation



Emerson
provides alternators (low, medium and high voltage) for use in diesel or gas
powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC
motor/generator sets, traction generators, wind power generators, wind turbine
pitch control systems and solar photovoltaic converters.



Fluid
Power and Fluid Control



Products
in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in
manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile
manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic
valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation
equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches.






Materials
Joining and Precision Cleaning



Emerson
supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and
joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including
automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision
cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial
manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment;
linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding,
spin welding and laser welding; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning
systems.



Electrical
Distribution



Emerson’s
majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation
manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying
electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable
fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, and enclosures and
controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial,
commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and
production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants.



Distribution



On a
worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation
segment is through direct sales forces. Most products sold worldwide to original
equipment manufacturers are through a direct sales force. Independent
distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end
users. To a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized,
particularly for electrical distribution products in the United
States.



Brands



Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson
Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson
Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Emerson Power Transmission, Kato
Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, O-Z/Gedney, SSB Wind Systems,
System Plast and Trident.



NETWORK
POWER



Emerson’s
Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products
providing “grid to chip” electric power conditioning, power reliability and
environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other
critical applications, and also provides comprehensive data center
infrastructure management solutions. Products in this segment include
uninterruptible power systems, embedded power supplies, precision cooling and
inbound power systems, integrated data center monitoring and control devices and
software, plus 24-hour service. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for
this segment were United States 40 percent, Europe 16 percent, Asia 34 percent
and other regions 10 percent.



Power
Systems



Emerson
supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable,
conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical
equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems’
products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating
rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system
supervision.



Embedded
Power



Embedded
power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or
condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of
telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using
standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer
products for chargers and power adaptors.






Embedded
Computing



Embedded
Computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment
manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense,
aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from
communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and
professional services.



Precision
Cooling



Emerson’s
precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for
computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment. These products
range from 14,000 to 4 million BTUs in capacity and are available in up-flow,
down-flow and overhead configurations.



Inbound
Power Systems



Emerson
inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically
transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup
generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic
transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution
equipment and control systems.



Data
Center Infrastructure Management



Emerson
provides comprehensive data center management solutions through server access
technologies that enable access, monitoring and control of the information
technology infrastructure and provide linkage with data center
operations.



Connectivity
Solutions



Emerson’s
connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephone
and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and
other industrial customers globally with a broad range of radio frequency,
microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies.



Service
and Site Operations



Emerson
staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries, and deploys field
service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network
support systems. Our services include on-site operations management, energy
consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote
monitoring and management and 24-hour service capability.



Distribution



The
Network Power segment sells primarily through worldwide direct sales forces,
particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales is handled by
independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and
independent distributors.



Brands



Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power,
Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Avocent, Chloride, Knürr,
Liebert, Liebert Services, Netspan, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos and
Trompeter.






CLIMATE
TECHNOLOGIES



The
Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the
climate control industry, including residential, commercial and industrial
heating and air conditioning, and commercial and industrial refrigeration. Our
technology enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and lower energy
bills. This segment also provides services that digitally control and remotely
monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution
outlets to enhance freshness and food safety. In 2010, sales by geographic
destination for this segment were United States 54 percent, Europe 13 percent,
Asia 23 percent and other regions 10 percent.



Residential
and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning



Emerson
provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce
operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of
buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air conditioning
compressors, including an ultra-efficient residential scroll compressor with two
stages of cooling capacity; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring
equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas
valves for furnaces and water heaters; nitride ignition systems for furnaces;
sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and
controls.



Commercial
and Industrial Refrigeration



Emerson’s
technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in
supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations and refrigerated
trucks and transport containers. Our refrigeration products are also used in a
wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food
processing and cold storage. These products include reciprocating, scroll and
screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that
provide precise temperature management; and environmental control
systems.



Services
and Solutions



Emerson
services and solutions enable global customers to optimize the performance of
facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and
food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning,
refrigeration and lighting control, Emerson performs as a complete facility
manager for its customers. The Company’s expertise allows customers to reduce
energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In
addition to industry-leading controls, products include facility design and
project management, commissioning services, facility monitoring services and
energy modeling and consultancy.



Distribution



Climate
Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and
end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales force networks.
The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks
throughout the world.



Brands



Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate
Technologies, Clive Samuels & Associates, Computer Process Controls,
Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies
Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services,
Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and
White-Rodgers.






TOOLS
AND STORAGE



Emerson’s
Tools and Storage segment (formerly Appliance and Tools; renamed subsequent to
the Company’s sale of its appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial
motors businesses) includes a broad range of tools, storage products and
appliance solutions. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for this segment
were United States 80 percent, Europe 7 percent, Asia 4 percent and other
regions 9 percent.



Professional
and Do-It-Yourself Tools



Our
pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install
and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe
threading and roll grooving equipment; a time-saving system that joins tubing
through mechanical crimping; drain cleaners; diagnostic systems including
closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment; and tubing
tools. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums,
commercial vacuums, rolling storage boxes, truck work boxes, bolt cutters, and
van and truck ladder racks. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement
retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools,
and wet-dry vacuums.



Storage
Solutions



Emerson
provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for
residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Our products
for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and
closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers,
available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our storage solutions also help
commercial customers utilize space in the most efficient manner. These solutions
include storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets,
totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks.
Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and
treatment; they include emergency and operating room carts, medication carts,
polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our food service
equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality
industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and
wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and
workstations.



Appliances
and Components



Emerson
provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial
food waste disposers, ceiling fans, instant hot water dispensers and compact
electric water heaters.



Distribution



The
principal worldwide distribution channels for the Tools and Storage segment are
distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold almost
exclusively worldwide through distributors. Independent sales representatives
are utilized to a lesser extent, particularly for storage solutions. Appliance
solutions are sold almost exclusively through direct sales force
networks.



Brands



Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Tools and Storage segment include Emerson, Emerson
Appliance Solutions, Emerson Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions,
ClosetMaid, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Knaack, Lionville, MedDispense, METRO,
ProTeam, RIDGID and Weather Guard.






PRODUCTION



Emerson
utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production
operations are metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating,
heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized
production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated
material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining and special
furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the
equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design
and well maintained.



RAW
MATERIALS



Emerson's
major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron,
electronics, aluminum and brass, and to a lesser extent, plastics and other
petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of
its major requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or a few
suppliers. Although recent high prices for some raw materials have caused
pricing pressures for some of our businesses, the raw materials and various
purchased components required for the Company’s products have generally been
available in sufficient quantities.



PATENTS,
TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES



The
Company has many patents, trademarks and licenses obtained over a number of
years which expire at various dates in the future. While proprietary
intellectual property is important to the Company, management believes the loss
of any intellectual property right would not materially impact the Company or
any of its segments.



BACKLOG



The
Company’s estimated consolidated order backlog was $5,616 million and $4,615
million at September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Nearly the entire
September 30, 2010 consolidated backlog amount is expected to be shipped within
one year. The estimated backlog by business segment at September 30, 2010 and
2009 follows (dollars in millions):



20092010Process
      Management$2,6092,868Industrial
      Automation385619Network
      Power1,0661,641Climate
      Technologies373395Tools
      and Storage18293Total
      Backlog$4,6155,616






COMPETITION



Emerson's
businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and the Company
competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the
industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's
competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing
high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single
company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines,
various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of
competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater
sales and assets than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller
companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many
of its product lines.



RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT



Costs
associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were $473
million, $460 million and $458 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.



ENVIRONMENT



The
Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage,
transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign
and/or local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment
or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not had a
material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures
for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year.



EMPLOYEES



Emerson
and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately 127,700 employees during
2010. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable.
Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining
agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information.



DOMESTIC
AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS



International
sales were $11,938 million in 2010, $11,416 million in 2009 and $13,307 million
in 2008, including U.S. exports of $1,317 million, $1,211 million and $1,449
million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although there are additional
risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization of
facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds,
Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date.
See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual
Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information
with respect to foreign operations.



INTERNET
ACCESS



Emerson's
Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without
charge through Emerson's website on the Internet as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows:
www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson’s
website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K.



The
information set forth under, “Item 1A.  Risk Factors” is hereby
incorporated by reference.






