
10-K
dkm305.txt
FORM 10-K F/Y/E 12/31/2002

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549
                                   FORM 10 - K

(X)  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

( )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 For the transition period from ______ to ______

                         Commission File Number 1-12298
                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          FLORIDA                                        59-3191743
(State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       identification No.)

121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200                    (904) 598-7000
Jacksonville, Florida    32202                  (Registrant's telephone No.)
(Address of principal executive offices)  (zip code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value
                                (Title of Class)

                             New York Stock Exchange
                     (Name of exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
                                                                    ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  YES  (X)          NO  (  )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  IS (X)      IS NOT (  )

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
                                YES (X ) NO ( )

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the Registrant's most recently completed second fiscal
quarter.  $743,145,673

The approximate number of shares of Registrant's voting common stock outstanding
was 60,346,171 as of March 13, 2003.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 2003 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.




                                

                                                                       Form 10-K
Item No.                                                             Report Page
- -------                                                              -----------

                                     PART I

1.   Business..............................................................1

2.   Properties............................................................4

3.   Legal Proceedings....................................................20

4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..................20

                                     PART II

5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
     Matters..............................................................20

6.   Selected Consolidated Financial Data.................................22

7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
     Results of Operations................................................24

7a.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk...........32

8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............33

9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
     Financial Disclosure.................................................33

                                    PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...................33

11.  Executive Compensation...............................................34

12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.......34

13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.......................34

14.  Controls and Procedures..............................................34

                                     PART IV

15.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K....34





Forward Looking Statements
- --------------------------

         In addition to historical information, the following information
contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. These
statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about
the industry and markets in which Regency operates, and management's beliefs and
assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance
and involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such
statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
changes in national and local economic conditions; financial difficulties of
tenants; competitive market conditions, including pricing of acquisitions and
sales of properties and out-parcels; changes in expected leasing activity and
market rents; timing of acquisitions, development starts and sales of properties
and out-parcels; weather; the ability to obtain governmental approvals; and
meeting development schedules.

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

         Regency Centers Corporation ("Regency" or the "Company") completed its
initial public offering in 1993 (NYSE: REG) and became a qualified
self-administered, self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Through a
series of strategic acquisitions in 1997, 1998 and 1999, we expanded the scope
of our operations and became a nationally based owner, operator, and developer
of grocery-anchored retail shopping centers.

         Currently, our assets total approximately $3.1 billion with 262
shopping centers in 21 states. At December 31, 2002, our gross leasable area
("GLA") totaled 29.5 million square feet and was 94.8% leased. Geographically,
21.0% of our GLA is located in Florida, 17.4% in California, 17.4% in Texas,
8.3% in Georgia, 6.5% in Ohio, and 29.4% spread throughout 16 other states.

         We invest in retail shopping centers through Regency Centers, L.P.,
("RCLP") an operating partnership in which Regency currently owns approximately
98% of the outstanding common partnership units ("Common Units"). The
acquisition, development, operations and financing activity of Regency including
the issuance of Common Units or Preferred Units is executed by RCLP, its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and joint ventures with third parties.

Operating and Investment Philosophy

         Regency's primary operating and investment goal is to compound long
term growth in per share earnings and total shareholder return through:

           o      focusing on a strategy of owning, operating, and developing
                  grocery-anchored community and neighborhood shopping centers
                  that are anchored by market leading supermarkets and are
                  located in markets with attractive demographics,

           o      sustaining growth in the profits and intrinsic value of the
                  operating portfolio by:

           o      increasing net operating income from the high-quality
                  centers through intense leasing and management and
                  industry leading operating systems like Regency's premier
                  customer initiative,

           o      recycling the proceeds from lower quality properties and
                  non-core developments into high yielding, higher quality
                  new developments and acquisitions,

           o      utilizing joint ventures to cost efficiently expand the
                  portfolio and increase fee based income,

           o      realizing significant value from Regency's customer-driven
                  development program,

           o      using conservative financial management to maintain a strong
                  balance sheet with access to substantial capital, and

           o      attracting and motivating a top notch, talented, management
                  team that is committed to achieving Regency's strategic goals.





Grocery-Anchored Strategy

         We focus our investment strategy on grocery-anchored retail shopping
centers that are located in attractive trade areas and are anchored by a
dominant grocer in the local market. A neighborhood center is a convenient,
cost-effective distribution platform for food retailers. Grocery-anchored
centers generate substantial daily traffic and offer sustainable competitive
advantages to their tenants. This high traffic generates increased sales,
thereby driving higher occupancy, higher rental rates, and higher rental rate
growth for Regency -- meaning that we can sustain our cash flow growth and
increase the value of our portfolio over the long term.

Research Driven Market Selection

         Grocery-anchored centers are best located in neighborhood trade areas
with attractive demographics. For a typical Regency grocery-anchored center, we
target a 3-mile population of approximately 72,000 people with an average
household income in excess of $85,000 and a projected 5-year population growth
of approximately 8%. The trade areas of our centers are growing nearly twice as
fast and household incomes are more than 35% greater than the national averages,
translating into more retail buying power. Once we select specific markets, we
seek the best location within the best neighborhoods, preferably occupying the
dominant corner, close to residential communities, with excellent visibility for
our tenants and easy access for neighborhood shoppers.

Premier Customer Initiative

         For the same reason we choose to anchor our centers with leading
grocers, we also seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty
tenants. We have created a formal partnering process -- the Premier Customer
Initiative ("PCI") -- to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our
non-grocer specialty retailers. The objective of PCI is for Regency to build a
base of specialty tenants who represent the "best-in-class" operators in their
respective merchandising categories. Such tenants reinforce the consumer appeal
and other strengths of a center's grocery-anchor, help to stabilize a center's
occupancy, reduce releasing downtime, lower tenant turnover and yield higher
sustainable rents.

Customer-driven Development

         Development is customer-driven, meaning we generally have an executed
lease from the anchor before we purchase the land and begin construction.
Developments serve the growth needs of our grocery and specialty retail
customers, result in modern shopping centers with long-term leases from the
grocery-anchors and produce attractive returns on invested capital.

Capital Strategy

         We intend to maintain a conservative capital structure designed to fund
our growth programs without compromising our investment-grade ratings. This
approach is founded on our self-funding business model. This model utilizes
center "recycling" as a key component. Our recycling strategy calls for us to
re-deploy the proceeds from the sales of outparcels, developments and low
growth, lower quality operating properties into new higher-quality developments
and acquisitions that we expect will generate sustainable revenue growth and
more attractive returns on invested capital. Our commitment to maintaining a
high-quality portfolio dictates that we continually assess the value of all of
our properties and sell those that no longer meet our long-term investment
standards to third parties. Joint venturing of assets will also provide Regency
with a capital source for new investments and market based fees that we may earn
as the asset manager.

Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Regency Common Stock

         We are subject to business risks arising in connection with owning real
estate which include, among others:

o    the bankruptcy or insolvency of, or a downturn in the business of, any of
     our major tenants could reduce cash flow,

o    the possibility that major tenants will not renew their leases as they
     expire or renew at lower rental rates could reduce cash flow,

o    risks related to the internet and e-commerce reducing the demand for
     shopping centers,





o    vacated anchor space will affect the entire shopping center because of the
     loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power,

o    poor market conditions could create an over supply of space or a reduction
     in demand for real estate in markets where Regency owns shopping centers,

o    risks relating to leverage, including uncertainty that we will be able to
     refinance our indebtedness, and the risk of higher interest rates,

o    unsuccessful development activities could reduce cash flow,

o    Regency's inability to satisfy its cash requirements from operations and
     the possibility that Regency may be required to borrow funds to meet
     distribution requirements in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT,

o    potential liability for unknown or future environmental matters and costs
     of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act,

o    the risk of uninsured losses, and

o    unfavorable economic conditions could also result in the inability of
     tenants in certain retail sectors to meet their lease obligations which
     could adversely affect Regency's ability to attract and retain desirable
     tenants.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

         Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain
hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required
remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely
affect the owner's ability to sell or rent the property or borrow using the
property as collateral. We have a number of properties that will require or are
currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. These
remediations are not expected to have a material financial effect on Regency due
to financial statement reserves, insurance programs designed to mitigate the
cost of remediation and various state-regulated programs that shift the
responsibility and cost to the state.

Competition

         We believe the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented.
Regency faces competition from other REITs in the development, acquisition,
ownership and leasing of shopping centers as well as from numerous local,
regional and national real estate developers and owners.

Changes in Policies

         Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that govern our
investment and operating strategies including, among others, debt and equity
financing policies, quarterly distributions to shareholders, and REIT tax
status. The Board of Directors may amend these policies at any time without a
vote of Regency's shareholders.

Employees

         Our headquarters are located at 121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200,
Jacksonville, Florida. Regency presently maintains nineteen offices in thirteen
states where it may conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment
activities. At December 31, 2002, Regency had approximately 387 employees and
believes that relations with its employees are good.

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

         The Company's website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com. All of
the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission can be
accessed through our website; however, in the event that the website is
inaccessible, the Company will provide paper copies of its most recent annual
report on Form 10-K, the four previous quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and
current reports on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits,
free of charge upon request.





Item 2. Properties

          A list of our shopping centers including those partially owned through
joint ventures, summarized by state and in order of largest holdings, including
their GLA follows:



          * Excludes pre-stabilized properties under development






Item 2. Properties (continued)

         The following table summarizes the largest tenants occupying our
shopping centers based upon a percentage of total annualized base rent exceeding
..5% at December 31, 2002. The table includes 100% of the base rent from leases
of properties owned by joint ventures.


           Summary of Principal Tenants > .5% of Annualized Base Rent
                    (including Properties Under Development)




        Regency's leases have terms generally ranging from three to five years
for tenant space under 5,000 square feet. Leases greater than 10,000 square feet
generally have lease terms in excess of five years, mostly comprised of anchor
tenants. Many of the anchor leases contain provisions allowing the tenant the
option of extending the term of the lease at expiration. The leases provide for
the monthly payment in advance of fixed minimum rentals, additional rents
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's sales, the tenant's pro rata share of
real estate taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance expenses, and
reimbursement for utility costs if not directly metered.





Item 2. Properties (continued)

        The following table sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for the
        next ten years, assuming no tenants renew their leases:



(1) leased currently under month to month rent or in process of renewal
(2) total minimum rent includes current minimum rent and future contractual rent
    steps for all properties, but excludes additional rent such as percentage
    rent, common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance
    reimbursements

         See the property table below and also see Item 7, Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further information about Regency's properties.











- --------------------------------------------------------

(1)     Or latest renovation
(2)     Includes development properties. If development properties are excluded,
        the total percentage leased would be 94.8% for Company shopping centers.
(3)     Property under development or redevelopment. (4) Tenant owns its own
        building.
(5)     Owned by a partnership with outside investors in which the Partnership
        or an affiliate is the general partner.




Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         Regency is a party to various legal proceedings, which arise, in the
ordinary course of its business. Regency is not currently involved in any
litigation nor, to management's knowledge, is any litigation threatened against
Regency, the outcome of which would, in management's judgement based on
information currently available, have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of Regency.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         No matters were submitted for stockholder vote during the fourth
quarter of 2002.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

         Regency's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". Regency currently has approximately 4,000
shareholders. The following table sets forth the high and low prices and the
cash dividends declared on Regency's common stock by quarter for 2002 and 2001.




         Regency intends to pay regular quarterly distributions to its common
stockholders. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion
of the Board of Directors, and will depend upon cash generated by operating
activities, Regency's financial condition, capital requirements, annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. Regency anticipates that for the foreseeable future, cash available
for distribution will be greater than earnings and profits due to non-cash
expenses, primarily depreciation and amortization, to be incurred by Regency.
Distributions by Regency to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings
and profits for federal income tax purposes will be taxable to stockholders as
either ordinary dividend income or capital gain income if so declared by
Regency. Distributions in excess of earnings and profits generally will be
treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Such distributions have the effect
of deferring taxation until the sale of a stockholder's common stock. In order
to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Regency must make annual distributions
to stockholders of at least 90% of its taxable income. Under certain
circumstances, which management does not expect to occur, Regency could be
required to make distributions in excess of cash available for distributions in
order to meet such requirements. Regency currently maintains the Regency Centers
Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan which enables its
stockholders to automatically reinvest distributions, as well as, make voluntary
cash payments towards the purchase of additional shares.

         Under the loan agreement with the lenders of Regency's line of credit,
distributions may not exceed 95% of Funds from Operations ("FFO") based on the
immediately preceding four quarters. FFO is defined in accordance with the
NAREIT definition as described in Regency's consolidated financial statements.
Also, in the event of any monetary default, Regency may not make distributions
to stockholders.

        There were no sales of unregistered securities during the periods
covered by this report.







                      Equity Compensation Plan Information



- ------------------------------------

(1)      The Company's 1993 Long Term Omnibus Plan provides for the issuance of
         up to 12% of Regency's outstanding common stock and common stock
         equivalents, but not to exceed 8.5 million shares. The shares shown in
         column (c) as available for issuance at December 31, 2002 are based on
         this 12% formula.

         Regency's Stock Grant Plan for non-key employees is the only equity
compensation plan that our shareholders have not approved. This Plan provides
for the award of a stock bonus of a specified value to each non-key employee on
the 1st anniversary date and every 5th anniversary date of their employment. For
example, each non-manager employee receives $500 in shares at the specified
anniversary dates based on the average fair market value of Regency's common
stock for the most recent quarter prior to the anniversary date. A total of
30,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under this Plan,
of which 11,992 shares were available for issuance at December 31, 2002.





Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data
         (in thousands, except per share data and number of properties)

         The following table sets forth Selected Financial Data for Regency on a
historical basis for the five years ended December 31, 2002. This information
should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of Regency
(including the related notes thereto) and Management's Discussion and Analysis
of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations, each included elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. This historical Selected Financial Data has been derived from
the audited financial statements.













Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

         In addition to historical information, the following information
contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. These
statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about
the industry and markets in which Regency operates, and management's beliefs and
assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance
and involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such
statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
changes in national and local economic conditions; financial difficulties of
tenants; competitive market conditions, including pricing of acquisitions and
sales of properties and out-parcels; changes in expected leasing activity and
market rents; timing of acquisitions, development starts and sales of properties
and out-parcels; weather; the ability to obtain governmental approvals; and
meeting development schedules. The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto of Regency Centers Corporation ("Regency" or "Company") appearing
elsewhere in the Annual Report.

Organization
- ------------

         Regency is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which
began operations in 1993. We invest in retail shopping centers through our
partnership interest in Regency Centers, L.P., ("RCLP") an operating partnership
in which Regency currently owns approximately 98% of the outstanding common
partnership units ("Common Units"). Regency's acquisition, development,
operations and financing activities, including the issuance of Common Units or
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Preferred Units"), are generally
executed by RCLP.

Shopping Center Business
- ------------------------

          We are a national owner, operator and developer of grocery-anchored
neighborhood retail shopping centers. A list of our shopping centers including
those partially owned through joint ventures, summarized by state and in order
of largest holdings, including their GLA follows:



          * Excludes pre-stabilized properties under development






          We are focused on building a portfolio of grocery-anchored
neighborhood shopping centers that are positioned to withstand adverse economic
conditions by providing consumers with convenient shopping for daily necessities
and adjacent local tenants with foot traffic. Regency's current investment
markets are stable, and we expect to realize growth in net income as a result of
increasing occupancy in the portfolio, increasing rental rates, development and
acquisition of shopping centers in targeted markets, and redevelopment of
existing shopping centers.

          The following table summarizes the four largest grocery-tenants
occupying our shopping centers, including those partially owned through joint
ventures at December 31, 2002:

(a) Includes grocery-tenant-owned stores

         On January 22, 2002, Kmart Corporation, a tenant in four of our
shopping centers, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code. Under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, Kmart has the ability to reject
pre-petition lease agreements and cease paying rent. Kmart rejected two leases
representing $942,000 of annual base rent and closed both stores. We have two
other leases with Kmart representing $883,000 of annual base rent. Both of these
stores are open and operating, however, we have no assurance that Kmart will be
able to continue rental payments on these two stores in the future.

         As a result of the Kmart store closing at one of our shopping centers,
combined with an earlier closing of an adjacent Winn-Dixie grocery store, we
determined that the value of this shopping center had been permanently impaired.
As a result, we recorded a provision for loss on operating properties of $2.4
million during 2002.

Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers
- -----------------------------------------------

         We have implemented a growth strategy dedicated to developing and
acquiring high-quality shopping centers. Our development program makes a
significant contribution to our overall growth. Development is customer-driven,
meaning we generally have an executed lease from the grocery-anchor before we
begin construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our grocery and
specialty retail customers, result in modern shopping centers with 20-year
leases from the grocery anchors, and produce either attractive returns on
invested capital or profits from sale. This development process can require 12
to 36 months from initial land or redevelopment acquisition through
construction, lease-up and stabilization, depending upon the size and type of
project. Generally, anchor tenants begin operating their stores prior to
construction completion of the entire center, resulting in rental income during
the development phase.

         During 2002, we acquired the land and began development on 21 new
projects representing estimated total costs at completion of $335 million,
compared with starting 11 new projects during 2001 with estimated costs at
completion of $156 million. At December 31, 2002, we had 34 projects under
construction or undergoing major renovations, which, when completed, are
expected to represent an investment of $635.8 million before the estimated
reimbursement of certain tenant-related costs and projected sales proceeds from
adjacent land and out-parcels of $131 million. Costs necessary to complete these
developments will be $326 million, are generally already committed as part of
existing construction contracts, and will be expended through 2005. These
developments are approximately 49% completed and 64% pre-leased.

         Regency has a 20% equity interest in and serves as property manager for
Columbia Regency Retail Partners, LLC ("Columbia"), a joint venture with the
Oregon State Treasury that was formed for the purpose of investing in retail
shopping centers. During 2002, Columbia acquired a shopping center from the
Company for $19.5 million, for which the Company received net proceeds of $17.5
million. At December 31, 2002, Columbia owned 12 shopping centers with a net
book value of $284.9 million.



         Regency has a 25% equity interest in and serves as property manager for
Macquarie CountryWide-Regency, LLC, ("MCWR") a joint venture with an affiliate
of Macquarie CountryWide Trust of Australia, a Sydney, Australia-based property
trust focused on investing in grocery-anchored shopping centers. During 2002,
MCWR acquired 11 shopping centers from the Company for $145.2 million, for which
the Company received net proceeds of $94.9 million and a note receivable of
$25.1 million. MCWR is currently in the process of placing third-party
fixed-rate mortgages on the properties, the proceeds of which will be used to
repay the note receivable. In January 2003, the note was reduced by $5.7
million, and we expect the balance of the note receivable to be repaid during
2003. The Company recognized gains on these sales of $11.1 million, which
represents $5.3 million related to operating properties, recorded as a gain on
the sale of operating properties, and $5.8 million related to development
properties, recorded as service operations revenue. The recognition of gain is
recorded on only that portion of the sale to MCWR not attributable to the
Company's 25% joint venture interest. At December 31, 2002, MCWR owned 16
shopping centers with a net book value of $180.7 million.

         Columbia and MCWR intend to continue to acquire retail shopping
centers, some of which they may acquire directly from Regency. For those
properties acquired from third parties, Regency is required to provide its pro
rata share of the purchase price.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

         We expect that the cash generated from revenues will provide the
necessary funds on a short-term basis to pay our operating expenses, interest
expense, scheduled principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, recurring
capital expenditures necessary to maintain our shopping centers properly, and
distributions to stock and unit holders. Net cash provided by operating
activities was $173 million and $185.9 million for the years ended December 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively. During 2002 and 2001, respectively, we incurred
capital expenditures of $18.5 million and $15.8 million to improve our shopping
center portfolio, paid scheduled principal payments of $5.6 million and $6.1
million to our lenders, and paid dividends and distributions of $158.5 million
and $154.4 million to our share and unit holders.

         Although base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants
who file bankruptcy have the right to cancel their leases and close the related
stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our
shopping centers files bankruptcy and cancels its leases, we could experience a
significant reduction in our revenues. We are not currently aware of any current
or pending bankruptcy of any of our tenants that would cause a significant
reduction in our revenues, and no tenant represents more than 10% of our annual
base-rental revenues.

         We expect to meet long-term capital requirements for maturing debt, the
acquisition of real estate, and the renovation or development of shopping
centers from: (i) cash generated from operating activities after the payments
described above, (ii) proceeds from the sale of real estate, (iii) joint
venturing of real estate, (iv) increases in debt, and (v) equity raised in the
private or public markets. Additionally, the Company has the right to call and
repay outstanding preferred units five years after their issuance date, at the
Company's discretion, which could begin during 2003. The sources of repaying
preferred units would include those listed above.

         Our commitment to maintaining a high-quality portfolio dictates that we
continually assess the value of all of our properties and sell to third parties
those operating properties that no longer meet our long-term investment
standards. We may also sell a portion of an operating or development property to
one of our joint ventures, which may provide Regency with a capital source for
new development and acquisitions, as well as market-based fees that we may earn
as the asset manager. By selling a property to a joint venture, Regency owns
less than 100% of the property, generally 20% to 50%, and shares the risks and
rewards of the property with its partner.

         Proceeds from the sale or joint venturing of properties are included in
net investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. During
2002, net proceeds from the sale or joint venturing of real estate was $425
million, compared with $142 million during 2001, and were used primarily to
reduce the balance of the unsecured line of credit (the "Line"). Net cash
provided by investing activities was $110.6 million for the year ended December
31, 2002, and generally means that the net proceeds from the sale or joint
venturing of real estate was greater than the cash invested in new acquisitions
or developments. Net cash used in investing activities was $164.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 2001 and generally means that cash invested in new



acquisitions or developments was greater than the net proceeds from selling or
joint venturing real estate. Net cash used in financing activities was $255
million and $94.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.
Outstanding debt at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consists of the following (in
thousands):

         Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, and may
be prepaid, but could be subject to a yield-maintenance premium. Mortgage loans
are generally due in monthly installments of interest and principal, and mature
over various terms through 2019. Variable interest rates on mortgage loans are
currently based on LIBOR plus a spread in a range of 130 basis points to 175
basis points. Fixed interest rates on mortgage loans range from 6.64% to 9.5%.

         Interest rates paid on the Line, which are based on LIBOR plus .85%, at
December 31, 2002 and 2001 were 2.288% and 2.913%, respectively. The spread that
we pay on the Line is dependent upon maintaining specific investment-grade
ratings. We are also required to comply, and are in compliance, with certain
financial and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing.
The Line is used primarily to finance the acquisition and development of real
estate, but is also available for general working-capital purposes.

         During 2002, the Company assumed debt with a fair value of $46.7
million related to the acquisition of five properties, which includes debt
premiums of $2.7 million based upon above-market interest rates of the debt
instruments. Debt premiums are being amortized over the terms of the related
debt instruments.

         On January 15, 2002, the Company completed a $250 million unsecured
debt offering with an interest rate of 6.75%. These notes were priced at 99.85%,
are due on January 15, 2012. We used the net proceeds of these offerings to
reduce the balance of the Line. During 2001, the Company completed $240 million
of unsecured debt offerings with an interest rate of 7.25% to 7.95% that are due
in 2011. During 2000, the Company completed $160 million of unsecured debt
offerings with an interest rate of 8.0% to 8.45%, which are due in 2010.

         As of December 31, 2002, scheduled principal repayments on notes
payable and the Line were as follows (in thousands):

         Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which we have an
investment had notes and mortgage loans payable of $167.1 million at December
31, 2002, and the Company's proportionate share of these loans was $38.8
million.

         RCLP has issued Preferred Units in various amounts since 1998, the net
proceeds of which we used to reduce the balance of the Line. RCLP sold the
issues primarily to institutional investors in private placements. The Preferred
Units, which may be called by RCLP after certain dates ranging from 2003 to



2005, have no stated maturity or mandatory redemption, and they pay a
cumulative, quarterly dividend at fixed rates ranging from 8.125% to 9.125%. At
any time after 10 years from the date of issuance, the Preferred Units may be
exchanged by the holders for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Preferred
Stock") at an exchange rate of one share for one unit. The Preferred Units and
the related Preferred Stock are not convertible into Regency common stock. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the face value of Preferred Units issued was $384
million with an average fixed distribution rate of 8.72%.

         We intend to continue growing our portfolio through acquisitions and
developments, either directly or through our joint venture relationships.
Because acquisition and development activities are discretionary in nature, they
are not expected to burden the capital resources we have currently available for
liquidity requirements. Regency expects that cash provided by operating
activities, unused amounts available under the Line, and cash reserves are
adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
- ------------------------------------------

         Knowledge about our accounting policies is necessary for a complete
understanding of our financial results, and discussions and analysis of these
results. The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make
certain estimates that impact the balance of assets and liabilities at a
financial statement date and the reported amount of income and expenses during a
financial reporting period. These accounting estimates are based upon our
judgments and are considered to be critical because of their significance to the
financial statements and the possibility that future events may differ from
those judgments, or that the use of different assumptions could result in
materially different estimates. We review these estimates on a periodic basis to
ensure reasonableness. However, the amounts we may ultimately realize could
differ from such estimates.

         Capitalization of Costs - We have an investment services group with an
established infrastructure that supports the due diligence, land acquisition,
construction, leasing and accounting of our development properties. All direct
and indirect costs related to these activities are capitalized. Included in
these costs are interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction as
well as estimates for the portion of internal costs that are incremental, and
deemed directly or indirectly related to our development activity. If future
accounting standards limit the amount of internal costs that may be capitalized,
or if our development activity were to decline significantly without a
proportionate decrease in internal costs, we could incur a significant increase
in our operating expenses.

         Valuation of Real Estate Investments - Our long-lived assets, primarily
real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We review
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate such an evaluation is warranted. The review involves a number of
assumptions and estimates used in determining whether impairment exists.
Depending on the asset, we use varying methods such as i) estimating future cash
flows, ii) determining resale values by market, or iii) applying a
capitalization rate to net operating income using prevailing rates in a given
market. These methods of determining fair value can fluctuate up or down
significantly as a result of a number of factors including changes in the
general economy of those markets in which we operate, tenant credit quality, and
demand for new retail stores. If we determine that impairment exists due to the
inability to recover an asset's carrying value, a provision for loss is recorded
to the extent that the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value.

         Income Tax Status - The prevailing assumption underlying the operation
of our business is that we will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT,
defined under the Internal Revenue Code. Certain income and asset tests are
required to be met on a periodic basis to ensure we continue to qualify as a
REIT. As a REIT, we are allowed to reduce taxable income by all or a portion of
our distributions to stockholders. As we evaluate each transaction entered into,
we determine the impact that these transactions will have on our REIT status.
Determining our taxable income, calculating distributions, and evaluating
transactions requires us to make certain judgments and estimates as to the
positions we take in our interpretation of the Internal Revenue Code. Because
many types of transactions are susceptible to varying interpretations under
federal and state income tax laws and regulations, our positions are subject to
change at a later date upon final determination by the taxing authorities.





Results from Operations
- -----------------------

Comparison of 2002 to 2001

         At December 31, 2002, we were operating or developing 262 shopping
centers. We identify our shopping centers as either development properties or
stabilized properties. Development properties are defined as properties that are
in the construction and initial lease-up process that are not yet fully leased
(fully leased generally means greater than 90% leased) and occupied. Stabilized
properties are those properties that are generally greater than 90% leased and,
if they were developed, are more than three years beyond their original
development start date. At December 31, 2002, we had 228 stabilized shopping
centers that were 94.8% leased.

         Revenues increased $22.2 million, or 6%, to $380.2 million in 2002.
This increase was due primarily to our realization of a full year of revenues
from new 2001 developments and from growth in rental rates of the operating
properties. In 2002, rental rates grew by 10.8% from renewal leases and new
leases replacing previously occupied spaces in the stabilized properties.
Minimum rent increased $24 million, or 10%, and recoveries from tenants
increased $7.6 million, or 11%.

         Service operations revenue includes management fees, commission income,
and gains or losses from the sale of land and development properties without
significant operations. Service operations revenue does not include gains or
losses from the sale of non-development operating properties. The Company
accounts for profit recognition on sales of real estate in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 66, "Accounting for
Sales of Real Estate." Profits from sales of real estate will not be recognized
by the Company unless a sale has been consummated; the buyer's initial and
continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a commitment to pay for the
property; the Company has transferred to the buyer the usual risks and rewards
of ownership; and the Company does not have substantial continuing involvement
with the property.

         Service operations revenue decreased $11.2 million to $20.3 million in
2002, or 36%. The decrease was due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("Statement
144"), which requires $15.6 million of gains related to 2002 sales to be
presented under discontinued operations.

         Operating expenses increased $15.9 million, or 9%, to $184.3 million in
2002. Combined operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $8.7
million, or 11%, during 2002 to $89.7 million. The increase was primarily due to
new developments that incurred expenses for only a portion of the previous year,
and general increases in operating expenses on the stabilized properties.
General and administrative expenses were $22.6 million during 2002 compared with
$20.6 million in 2001, or 10% higher, as a result of the Company opening several
branch offices in new markets, and general salary and benefit increases.
Depreciation and amortization increased $8 million during 2002 related to higher
acquisition and development activity and the depreciation of operating
properties classified as held for sale in 2001 that no longer met the criteria
under Statement 144.

         We review our real estate portfolio for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the
carrying amount of an asset. Regency determines whether impairment has occurred
by comparing the property's carrying value to an estimate of fair value based
upon the methods described above in our Critical Accounting Policies. In the
event the properties are impaired, we write down assets to fair value for "held-
and-used" assets, and fair value less costs to sell for "held-for-sale" assets.
During 2002, we recorded a provision for loss of $4.4 million.

         Net interest expense increased to $81.3 million in 2002 from $63.7
million in 2001, or 28%. The increase was primarily due to average outstanding
debt balances during 2002 exceeding 2001 by $131 million and lower interest
capitalization on new developments. Average interest rates on outstanding debt
declined to 6.93% at December 31, 2002 from 7.27% at December 31, 2001.

         Income from discontinued operations was $28.7 million in 2002 compared
with $12.1 million in 2001, primarily due to $18.7 million in gains we
recognized on the sale of operating properties and stabilized properties in our
development portfolio. Operating income and gains on sales in discontinued




operations are shown net of minority interest of exchangeable partnership units
totaling $726,560 and $312,743 for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

         Net income for common stockholders was $107.7 million in 2002 compared
with $97.7 million in 2001, or a 10% increase. Diluted earnings per share were
$1.84 in 2002 compared with $1.69 in 2001, or 9% higher as a result of the
increase in net income.

Results from Operations
- -----------------------

Comparison of 2001 to 2000

         Revenues increased $21.6 million, or 6%, to $358 million in 2001. The
increase was due primarily to our realization of a full year of revenues from
new 2000 developments and from growth in rental rates at the operating
properties. In 2001, rental rates grew by 10.5% from renewal leases and new
leases replacing previously occupied spaces in the stabilized properties.
Minimum rent increased $11.3 million, or 5%, and recoveries from tenants
increased $5.2 million, or 8%. At December 31, 2001, we were operating or
developing 272 shopping centers of which we had 231 stabilized shopping centers
that were 94.9% leased. At December 31, 2000, these same stabilized properties
were 95.4% leased.

         Service operations revenue increased by $4.3 million to $31.5 million
in 2001, or 16%. The increase was primarily due to a $12.4 million increase in
gains from the sale of land and out-parcels, a $1.7 million increase in
management fees primarily related to the Columbia and MCWR joint ventures,
offset by a $9.8 million reduction in development profits. The reduction in
development profits was a result of selling fewer developments during 2001
compared with 2000.

         Operating expenses increased $15.2 million, or 10%, to $168.4 million
in 2001. Combined operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $5.2
million, or 7%, during 2001 to $81 million. The increase was primarily due to
new developments that incurred expenses for only a portion of the previous year,
and general increases in operating expenses on the stabilized properties.
General and administrative expenses were $20.6 million during 2001 compared with
$19.9 million in 2000, or 3% higher, as a result of general salary and benefit
increases. Depreciation and amortization increased $6.9 million during 2001, or
12%, primarily due to developments that only operated for part of the year
during 2000.

         During 2001 and 2000, we recorded a provision for loss on operating
properties held for sale of $1.6 million and $13 million, respectively. The
provision in 2000 was directly related to an agreed-upon sale price associated
with a contract for sale of seven shopping centers.

         Interest expense decreased to $63.7 million in 2001 from $63.9 million
in 2000. Regency had $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion of outstanding debt at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Average interest rates on outstanding
debt declined to 7.27% at December 31, 2001 from 7.94% at December 31, 2000.

         Preferred unit distributions increased $3.9 million to $33.5 million
during 2001 as a result our issuance of preferred units in 2000.

         Income from discontinued operations was $12.1 million in 2001, compared
with $11.2 million in 2000. Operating income is shown net of minority interest
of exchangeable partnership units totaling $312,743 and $315,129 for the years
ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

         Net income for common stockholders was $97.7 million in 2001 compared
with $84.8 million in 2000, or a 15% increase. Diluted earnings per share was
$1.69 in 2001 compared with $1.49 in 2000, or 13% higher as a result of the
increase in net income.

Stock Purchase Loans
- --------------------

         In previous years, as part of our long-term incentive compensation
plan, the Company structured stock purchase plans whereby executives could
acquire common stock at fair market value by investing their own capital in
combination with loans provided by Regency. These interest-bearing,




full-recourse loans were secured by stock, which was held as collateral by
Regency. As part of the executive's compensation program, the Company granted
partial forgiveness of the unpaid principal balance based upon specified
performance criteria and the passage of time. The Company ceased making these
types of loans after 1998 and has not originated any new personal loans to our
employees since that date. As of September 30, 2002, all participants agreed to
repay the entire balance of their loans outstanding with a portion of the common
shares held as collateral, valued at fair market value on that day. The Company,
in return, granted the participants restricted stock and stock options that are
intended to provide them with the same level of compensation benefits that they
would have received under existing agreements for specified forgiveness amounts.

New Accounting Standards and Accounting Changes
- -----------------------------------------------

         In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 "Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities" ("Interpretation 46"), which is intended to
clarify the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated
Financial Statements", to certain entities in which equity investors do not have
the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have
sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or variable
interest entities, as defined in the Interpretation. Interpretation 46 will
require that certain variable interest entities be consolidated into the
majority variable interest holder's financial statements and is applicable
immediately to all variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003,
and as of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003 to those
variable interest entities created before February 1, 2003. The Company has not
yet completed its evaluation of the applicability of this Interpretation to its
current structures, but does not believe its adoption will have a material
effect on the financial statements.

         In November 2002, FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 "Guarantor's
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others," ("Interpretation 45") which addresses the
disclosure to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about its obligations under guarantees. The Interpretation also
requires the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the inception of
certain guarantees. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of
Interpretation 45 and will apply the recognition and measurement provisions for
all guarantees the Company entered into or modified after December 31, 2002.

         In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure ("Statement 148").
Statement 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change
to the fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. In addition, Statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of
SFAS Statement No.123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("Statement
123"), to require more prominent and frequent disclosures in financial
statements about the effects of stock-based compensation. The transition
guidance and annual disclosure provisions of Statement 148 are effective for
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and the interim disclosure
provisions are effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2002. As
permitted under Statement 123 and Statement 148, the Company will continue to
follow the accounting guidelines pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" for stock-based compensation
and to furnish the pro forma disclosures as required under Statement 148.

         In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 145, " Rescission of
FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 62, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and
Technical Corrections" ("Statement 145"). Statement 145 rescinds FASB Statement
No. 4, "Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt" ("Statement 4"),
which required all gains and losses from extinguishments of debt to be
aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of related
income tax effect. Upon adoption of Statement 145, classification of these gains
and losses will be evaluated under the criteria set forth in APB Opinion No. 30,
"Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring
Events and Transactions." The Company elected to adopt the provisions related to
the rescission of Statement 4 during the second quarter, and reported a gain on
early extinguishment of debt totaling $2.4 million, which is included in other
income on the accompanying statements of operations.




         In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 146, "Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" ("Statement 146"). Statement
146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit
or disposal activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition
for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). Statement 146 is
effective for exit and disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002.
The Company has not initiated any such exit and disposal activities since the
effective date and does not believe it will have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

         Regency, like others in the commercial real estate industry, is subject
to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The operation of dry cleaning
plants at our shopping centers is the principal environmental concern. We
believe that the tenants who operate these plants do so in accordance with
current laws and regulations and have established procedures to monitor their
operations. Additionally, we use all legal means to cause tenants to remove dry
cleaning plants from our shopping centers. Where available, we have applied and
been accepted into state-sponsored environmental programs. We have a blanket
environmental insurance policy that covers Regency against third-party
liabilities and remediation costs on shopping centers that currently have no
known environmental contamination. We have also placed environmental insurance
on specific properties with known contamination in order to mitigate Regency's
environmental risk. We believe that the ultimate disposition of currently known
environmental matters will not have a material effect on Regency's financial
position, liquidity, or operations.

Inflation
- ---------

         Inflation has remained relatively low and has had a minimal impact on
the operating performance of our shopping centers; however, substantially all of
our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact
of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage
rentals based on tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise;
and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the
terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in
the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of our
leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits us to seek increased
rents upon re-rental at market rates. Most of our leases require tenants to pay
their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real
estate taxes, and insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to
increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market Risk
- -----------

         Regency is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of
the line of credit and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity, fund capital
expenditures and expand Regency's real estate investment portfolio. Regency's
interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate
changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. To
achieve its objectives, Regency borrows primarily at fixed rates and may enter
into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and
treasury locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related
financial instrument. Regency has no plans to enter into derivative or interest
rate transactions for speculative purposes.

         Regency's interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of
techniques. The table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands),
weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total
debt (in thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash
flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.








         As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2002, it does not consider those exposures or positions, which
could arise after that date. Moreover, because firm commitments are not
presented in the table above, the information presented therein has limited
predictive value. As a result, Regency's ultimate realized gain or loss with
respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise
during the period, its hedging strategies at that time, and interest rates.


Item 8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

          The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included
in this Report are listed in Part IV, Item 14(a).


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

          None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         Information concerning the directors of Regency is incorporated herein
by reference to Regency's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2003 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. Information concerning the executive officers of Regency is
provided below.

         MARTIN E. STEIN, JR.  Mr. Stein, age 50, is Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of Regency.  He served as President of Regency from its
initial public offering in October 1993 until December 31, 1998. Mr. Stein also
served as President of Regency's predecessor real estate division since 1981 and
Vice President from 1976 to 1981. He is a director of Florida Rock Industries,
Inc., a publicly held producer of construction aggregates, Patriot
Transportation Holdings, Inc., a publicly held transportation and real estate
company, and Stein Mart, Inc., a publicly held upscale discount retailer.

         MARY LOU FIALA.  Mrs. Fiala, age 51, became President and Chief
Operating Officer of Regency in January 1999.  Before joining Regency she was
Managing Director - Security Capital U.S. Realty Strategic Group from March 1997
to January 1999.  Mrs. Fiala was Senior Vice President and Director of Stores,
New England - Macy's East/ Federated Department Stores from 1994 to March 1997.
From 1976 to 1994, Mrs. Fiala held various merchandising and store operations
positions with Macy's/Federated Department Stores.

         BRUCE M. JOHNSON.  Mr. Johnson, age 55, has been Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer of Regency since its initial public offering in October
1993.  Mr. Johnson also served as Executive Vice President of Regency's
predecessor real estate division since 1979.  He is a director of Brooks
Rehabilitation Hospital, a private not for profit rehabilitation hospital, and
it's private parent company Brooks Health Systems.

         Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. Information
concerning filings under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the directors or
executive officers of Regency is incorporated herein by reference to Regency's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.




Item 11.   Executive Compensation

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 12.   See Item 5 above for information on Equity Compensation Plans,
           Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
           Related Stockholder Matters

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 14. Controls and Procedures

         Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's
management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness
of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures within 90
days of the filing date of this quarterly report, and, based on their
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
are effective. There were no significant changes in our internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the
date of their evaluation.

                                     PART IV

Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a)   Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

           Regency's 2002 financial statements and financial statement schedule,
           together with the report of KPMG LLP are listed on the index
           immediately preceding the financial statements at the end of this
           report.

     (b)   Reports on Form 8-K:

           None

     (c)   Exhibits:

3.       Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

                  (i)      Restated Articles of Incorporation of Regency Centers
                           Corporation as amended to date (incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Company's Form 10-K
                           filed March 22, 2002).

                  (ii)     Restated Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation,
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
                           Company's Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2000).

4.          (a)   See exhibits 3(i) and 3(ii) for provisions of the Articles
                  of Incorporation and Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation
                  defining rights of security holders.

            (b)   Indenture dated July 20, 1998 between Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                  trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  registration statement on Form S-4 of Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  No. 333-63723).





            (c)   Indenture dated March 9, 1999 between Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                  trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  registration statement on Form S-3 of Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  No. 333-72899)

            (d)   Indenture dated December 5, 2001 between Regency Centers,
                  L.P., the guarantors named therein and First Union National
                  Bank, as trustee (incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 4.4 of
                  Form 8-K of Regency Centers, L.P. filed December 10, 2001,
                  File No. 0-24763)

10.      Material Contracts

       ~*(a) Regency Centers Corporation 1993 Long Term Omnibus Plan, as
             amended.

             (i)   Amendment No. 1 to Regency Centers Corporation 1993 Long Term
                   Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to
                   the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 11, 1999)

        ~(b) Form of Stock Rights Award Agreement

        ~(c) Form on Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement

        ~(d) Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002 between
             the Company and Martin E. Stein, Jr.

        ~(e) Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002 between
             the Company and Mary Lou Fiala

        ~(f) Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002 between
             the Company and Bruce M. Johnson

      ~*(g)  Form of Option Award Agreement for Key Employees

- ------------------------
~        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
         to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*        Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
         (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference

++       Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated
         August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

@        Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 1997 and
         incorporated herein by reference.

      ~*(h)  Form of Option Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors

      ~*(i)  Annual Incentive for Management Plan

      ~*(j)  Form of Director/Officer Indemnification Agreement

      ~*(k)  Form of Non-Competition Agreement between Regency Centers
             Corporation and Joan W. Stein, Robert L. Stein, Richard W.
             Stein, the Martin E. Stein Testamentary Trust A and the Martin
             E. Stein Testamentary Trust B.

        (l)  The following documents relating to the purchase by Security
             Capital U.S. Realty and Security Capital Holdings, S.A. of up
             to 45% of the Registrant's outstanding common stock:

             ++       (i)      Stock Purchase Agreement dated June 11, 1996.

             ++       (ii)     Stockholders' Agreement dated July 10, 1996.

                               (A)     First Amendment of Stockholders'
                                       Agreement dated February 10, 1997
                                       (incorporated by reference to the
                                       Company's Form 8-K report filed
                                       March 14, 1997)





                               (B)     Amendment No. 2 to Stockholders'
                                       Agreement dated December 4, 1997
                                       (incorporated by reference to
                                       Exhibit 6.2 to Schedule 13D/A filed
                                       by Security Capital U.S. Realty on
                                       December 11, 1997)

                               (C)     Amendment No. 3 to Stockholders
                                       Agreement dated September 23, 1998
                                       (incorporated by reference to
                                       Exhibit 8.2 to Schedule 13D/A filed
                                       by Security Capital U.S. Realty on
                                       October 2, 1998)

                               (D)     Letter Agreement dated June 14, 2000
                                       to Stockholders Agreement dated
                                       September 23, 1998 (incorporated by
                                       reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                                       Schedule 13D/A filed by Security
                                       Capital U.S. Realty on September 27,
                                       2000)

             ++       (iii)    Registration Rights Agreement dated July 10,
                               1996.

        (n)  Stock Grant Plan adopted on January 31, 1994 to grant
             stock to employees (incorporated by reference to the
             Company's Form 10-Q filed May 12, 1994).


        (o)  Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
             Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P., as amended
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Regency
             Centers, L.P.'s Form 10-K filed March 26, 2002).


- --------------------------
~        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
         to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*        Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
         (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference

++       Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated
         August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

@        Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 1997 and
         incorporated herein by reference.

        (p)  Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
             of July 21, 2000 by and among Regency Centers, L.P.,
             a Delaware limited partnership (the "Borrower"),
             Regency Realty Corporation, a Florida corporation
             (the "Parent"), each of the financial institutions
             initially a signatory hereto together with their
             assignees, (the "Lenders"), and Wells Fargo Bank,
             National Association, as contractual representative
             of the Lenders to the extent and in the manner
             provided, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of
             the Company's Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2000).

       ~(q)  Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control
             Agreement dated as of March, 2002 by and between the
             Company and Martin E. Stein, Jr. (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(r) of the Company's Form
             10-K/A filed April 15, 2002)

       ~(r)  Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control
             Agreement dated as of March, 2002 by and between the
             Company and Mary Lou Fiala (incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 10(s) of the Company's Form 10-K/A filed
             April 15, 2002)




       ~(s)  Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control
             Agreement dated as of March, 2002 by and between the
             Company and Bruce M. Johnson (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the Company's Form
             10-K/A filed April 15, 2002)

21.      Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.      Consent of KPMG LLP

         99.1     Written Statement of Chief Executive Officer

         99.2     Written Statement of Chief Financial Officer

         99.3     Written Statement of Chief Operating Officer

- --------------------------
~        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
         to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*        Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
         (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference

++       Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated
         August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

@        Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 1997 and
         incorporated herein by reference.





                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

Date:    March 13, 2003                 By:   /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                              ----------------------------------
                                               Martin E Stein, Jr., Chairman of
                                               the Board and Chief Executive
                                               Officer

Date:    March 13, 2003                 By:   /s/ Bruce M. Johnson
                                              ----------------------------------
                                               Bruce M. Johnson, Managing
                                               Director and Principal Financial
                                               Officer

Date:    March 13, 2003                 By:   /s/ J. Christian Leavitt
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                J. Christian Leavitt, Senior
                                                Vice President, Finance and
                                                Principal Accounting Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Martin E. Stein, Jr., Chairman of the
                                        Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Mary Lou Fiala
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Mary Lou Fiala, President, Chief
                                        Operating Officer and Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Raymond L. Bank
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Raymond L. Bank, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ C. Ronald Blankenship
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        C. Ronald Blankenship, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ A. R. Carpenter
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        A. R. Carpenter, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ J. Dix Druce, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        J. Dix Druce, Jr., Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Douglas S. Luke
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Douglas S. Luke, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Joseph E. Parsons
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Joseph E. Parsons, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ John C. Schweitzer
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        John C. Schweitzer, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Thomas G. Wattles
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Thomas G. Wattles, Director

Date:    March 13, 2003                 /s/ Terry N. Worrell
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Terry N. Worrell, Director



                                  CERTIFICATION



I, Martin E. Stein, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Regency Centers
Corporation (the "registrant"), certify that:

1.       I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Regency Centers
         Corporation;

2.       Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
         statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
         such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
         covered by this annual report;

3.       Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
         information included in this annual report, fairly present in all
         material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
         cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
         this annual report;

4.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
         establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
         defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and
         have:

         a)       designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure
                  that material information relating to the registrant,
                  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
                  by others within those entities, particularly during the
                  period in which this annual report is being prepared;

         b)       evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to
                  the filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation Date");
                  and

         c)       presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
                  effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based
                  on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
         on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the
         audit committee of registrant's Board of Directors (or persons
         performing the equivalent function):

         a)       all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
                  internal controls which could adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial data and have identified for the registrant's
                  auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

         b)       any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal controls; and

6.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
         annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
         controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
         controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation,
         including any corrective actions with regard to significant
         deficiencies and material weaknesses.



/s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
- ------------------------
Martin E. Stein, Jr.
March 13, 2003





                                  CERTIFICATION


I,  Bruce M. Johnson, Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of Regency
Centers Corporation (the "registrant"), certify that:

1.       I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Regency Centers
         Corporation;

2.       Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
         statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
         such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
         covered by this annual report;

3.       Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
         information included in this annual report, fairly present in all
         material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
         cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
         this annual report;

4.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
         establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
         defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and
         have:

         a)       designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure
                  that material information relating to the registrant,
                  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
                  by others within those entities, particularly during the
                  period in which this annual report is being prepared;

         b)       evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to
                  the filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation Date");
                  and

         c)       presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
                  effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based
                  on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
         on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the
         audit committee of registrant's Board of Directors (or persons
         performing the equivalent function):

         a)       all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
                  internal controls which could adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial data and have identified for the registrant's
                  auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

         b)       any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal controls; and

6.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
         annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
         controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
         controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation,
         including any corrective actions with regard to significant
         deficiencies and material weaknesses.


/s/ Bruce M. Johnson
- --------------------
Bruce M. Johnson
March 13, 2003





                                  CERTIFICATION


I, Mary Lou Fiala, President and Chief Operating Officer of Regency Centers
Corporation (the "registrant"), certify that:

1.       I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Regency Centers
         Corporation;

2.       Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
         statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which
         such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
         covered by this annual report;

3.       Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
         information included in this annual report, fairly present in all
         material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
         cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
         this annual report;

4.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
         establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
         defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and
         have:

         a)       designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure
                  that material information relating to the registrant,
                  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
                  by others within those entities, particularly during the
                  period in which this annual report is being prepared;

         b)       evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to
                  the filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation Date");
                  and

         c)       presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
                  effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based
                  on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
         on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the
         audit committee of registrant's Board of Directors (or persons
         performing the equivalent function):

         a)       all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of
                  internal controls which could adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial data and have identified for the registrant's
                  auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

         b)       any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal controls; and

6.       The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
         annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
         controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
         controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation,
         including any corrective actions with regard to significant
         deficiencies and material weaknesses.



/s/ Mary Lou Fiala
- ------------------
Mary Lou Fiala
March 13, 2003





                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




Regency Centers Corporation

  Independent Auditors' Report                                               F-2
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001               F-3
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
        December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000                                    F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000                                     F-5
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
        December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000                                    F-6
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                 F-8

Financial Statement Schedule

  Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule               S-1

  Schedule III - Regency Centers Corporation Combined Real Estate and
        Accumulated Depreciation - December 31, 2002                         S-2



  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
  information required therein is shown in the consolidated financial statements
  or notes thereto.




















                                       F-1


                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2002. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 1(c) to the financial statements, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" effective January 1, 2002.




                                  /s/ KPMG LLP





Jacksonville, Florida
January 31, 2003














                                       F-2


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                           December 31, 2002 and 2001




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-3


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
              For the Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-4


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
              For the Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000





                                      F-6


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
                                    continued





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-7

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

1.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

         (a)      Organization and Principles of Consolidation

                  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
                  accounts of Regency Centers Corporation, its wholly-owned
                  qualified REIT subsidiaries, and partnerships in which it has
                  voting control (the "Company" or "Regency"). All significant
                  intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
                  the consolidated financial statements. The Company owns
                  approximately 98% of the outstanding common units ("Units") of
                  Regency Centers, L.P., ("RCLP"). Regency invests in real
                  estate through its partnership interest in RCLP. All of the
                  acquisition, development, operations and financing activity of
                  Regency, including the issuance of Units or preferred units,
                  are executed by RCLP. The equity interests of third parties
                  held in RCLP and the majority owned or controlled partnerships
                  are included in the consolidated financial statements as
                  preferred or exchangeable operating partnership units and
                  limited partners' interest in consolidated partnerships. The
                  Company is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"),
                  which began operations in 1993 as Regency Realty Corporation.
                  In February 2001, the Company changed its name to Regency
                  Centers Corporation.

         (b)      Revenues

                  The Company leases space to tenants under agreements with
                  varying terms. Leases are accounted for as operating leases
                  with minimum rent recognized on a straight-line basis over the
                  term of the lease regardless of when payments are due. Accrued
                  rents are included in tenant receivables. Minimum rent has
                  been adjusted to reflect the effects of recognizing rent on a
                  straight-line basis.

                  Substantially all of the lease agreements contain provisions
                  that provide additional rents based on tenants' sales volume
                  (contingent or percentage rent) and reimbursement of the
                  tenants' share of real estate taxes and certain common area
                  maintenance ("CAM") costs. Percentage rents are recognized
                  when the tenants achieve the specified targets as defined in
                  their lease agreements and recovery of real estate taxes and
                  CAM costs are recognized when earned.

                  Service operations revenue includes management fees,
                  commission income, and gains or losses from the sale of land
                  and development properties without significant operations.
                  Service operations revenue does not include gains or losses
                  from the sale of operating properties. The Company accounts
                  for profit recognition on sales of real estate in accordance
                  with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")
                  Statement No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate." In
                  summary, profits from sales will not be recognized by the
                  Company unless a sale has been consummated; the buyer's
                  initial and continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a
                  commitment to pay for the property; the Company has
                  transferred to the buyer the usual risks and rewards of
                  ownership; and the Company does not have substantial
                  continuing involvement with the property.

         (c)      Real Estate Investments

                  Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost. All
                  direct and indirect costs related to development activities
                  are capitalized. Included in these costs are interest and real
                  estate taxes incurred during construction as well as estimates
                  for the portion of internal costs that are incremental, and
                  deemed directly or indirectly related to development activity.
                  Maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the
                  useful lives of the respective assets are reflected in
                  operating and maintenance expense.

                                       F-8


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (c)      Real Estate Investments (continued)

                  Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over
                  estimated useful lives of up to forty years for buildings and
                  improvements, term of lease for tenant improvements, and three
                  to seven years for furniture and equipment.

                  On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144,
                  "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
                  Assets" ("Statement 144"). Prior to January 1, 2002, operating
                  properties held for sale included properties that no longer
                  met the Company's long-term investment standards, such as
                  expected growth in revenue or market dominance. Once
                  identified and marketed for sale, these properties were
                  segregated on the balance sheet as operating properties held
                  for sale. The Company also develops shopping centers and
                  stand-alone retail stores for resale. Once completed, these
                  developments were also included in operating properties held
                  for sale.

                  As of December 31, 2001, $158 million of operating properties
                  were classified as held for sale on the balance sheet. With
                  the adoption of Statement 144, we determined that these assets
                  did not meet the six criteria set forth in Statement 144 and
                  recharacterized them as properties to be held and used.
                  Subsequent to January 1, 2002, and in accordance with
                  Statement 144, operating properties held for sale includes
                  only those properties available for immediate sale in their
                  present condition and for which management believes it is
                  probable that a sale of the property will be completed within
                  one year. Operating properties held for sale are carried at
                  the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell.
                  Depreciation and amortization are suspended during the period
                  held for sale.

                  The Company reviews its real estate portfolio for impairment
                  whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
                  carrying amount may not be recoverable. Regency determines
                  whether impairment has occurred by comparing the property's
                  carrying value to an estimate of the future undiscounted cash
                  flows. In the event impairment exists, assets are written down
                  to fair value for held and used assets and fair value less
                  costs to sell for held for sale assets. During 2002, the
                  Company recorded a provision for impairment loss to its Retail
                  segment of $2.5 million on an operating property as a result
                  of a Kmart store closing combined with an earlier closing of
                  an adjacent Winn-Dixie grocery store. During 2002, the Company
                  also recorded a provision for impairment loss to its Service
                  operations segment of $1.9 million related to adjusting four
                  undeveloped parcels of land and a development property down to
                  estimated fair value if sold. The fair values of the operating
                  property and development properties were determined by using
                  prices for similar assets in their respective markets.

                  The Company's properties have operations and cash flows that
                  can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Company.
                  Beginning in 2002, in accordance with Statement 144, the
                  operations and gains on sales reported in discontinued
                  operations include those operating properties and properties
                  in development for which operations and cash flows can be
                  clearly distinguished. The operations from these properties
                  have been eliminated from ongoing operations and the Company
                  will not have continuing involvement after disposition. Prior
                  periods have been restated to reflect the operations of these
                  properties as discontinued operations. The operations and
                  gains on sales of operating properties sold to real estate
                  partnerships in which the Company has some continuing
                  involvement are reported as income from continuing operations.

                                      F-9


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (d)      Income Taxes

                  The Company believes it qualifies, and intends to continue to
                  qualify, as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the
                  "Code"). As a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable
                  income by all or a portion of its distributions to
                  stockholders. As distributions have exceeded taxable income,
                  no provision for federal income taxes has been made in the
                  accompanying consolidated financial statements.

                  Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of
                  dividends to stockholders, differs from net income reported
                  for financial reporting purposes primarily because of
                  differences in depreciable lives and cost bases of the
                  shopping centers, as well as, other timing differences.

                  Regency Realty Group, Inc., ("RRG"), a wholly-owned subsidiary
                  of the Company is subject to federal and state income taxes
                  and files separate tax returns. RRG recognized a (benefit)
                  provision for federal income taxes of ($391,400), $2 million,
                  and $1.2 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which
                  are included in other expenses.

                  Effective January 1, 2001, the Company and RRG jointly elected
                  for RRG to be treated as a Taxable REIT Subsidiary of the
                  Company as such term is defined in Section 856(l) of the Code.
                  Such election is not expected to impact the tax treatment of
                  either the Company or RRG.

                  The net book basis of real estate assets exceeds the tax basis
                  by approximately $110 and $109 million at December 31, 2002
                  and 2001, respectively, primarily due to the difference
                  between the cost basis of the assets acquired and their
                  carryover basis recorded for tax purposes.

                  The following summarizes the tax status of dividends paid
                  during the years ended December 31 (unaudited):



         (e)      Deferred Costs

                  Deferred costs include deferred leasing costs, leasing
                  intangibles acquired in business combinations and deferred
                  loan costs, net of amortization. Such costs are amortized over
                  the periods through lease expiration or loan maturity.
                  Deferred leasing costs consist of internal and external
                  commissions associated with leasing the Company's shopping
                  centers. Leasing intangibles represent costs associated with
                  acquiring properties with in-place leases. Net deferred
                  leasing costs and leasing intangibles were $26.5 million and
                  $22.2 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
                  Deferred loan costs consist of initial direct and incremental
                  costs associated with financing activities. Net deferred loan
                  costs were $10.9 million and $12.2 million at December 31,
                  2002 and 2001, respectively.

                                      F-10

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (f)      Earnings per Share and Treasury stock

                  Basic net income per share of common stock is computed based
                  upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
                  during the year. Diluted net income per share also includes
                  common share equivalents for stock options, exchangeable
                  operating partnership units, and preferred stock when
                  dilutive. See note 7 for the calculation of earnings per
                  share.

                  Repurchases of the Company's common stock (net of shares
                  retired) are recorded at cost and are reflected as Treasury
                  stock in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity.

         (g)      Cash and Cash Equivalents

                  Any instruments which have an original maturity of ninety days
                  or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents. Cash
                  distributions of normal operating earnings from investments in
                  real estate partnerships are included in cash flows from
                  operations in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

         (h)      Estimates

                  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
                  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
                  of America requires the Company's management to make estimates
                  and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
                  liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and
                  liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the
                  reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
                  period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

         (i)      Stock-Based Compensation

                  In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting
                  for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure"
                  ("Statement 148"). Statement 148 provides alternative methods
                  of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based
                  method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In
                  addition, Statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of
                  Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
                  ("Statement 123"), to require more prominent and frequent
                  disclosures in financial statements about the effects of
                  stock-based compensation. The transition guidance and annual
                  disclosure provisions of Statement 148 are effective for
                  fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 and the interim
                  disclosure provisions are effective for periods beginning
                  after December 15, 2002. As permitted under Statement 123 and
                  Statement 148, the Company will continue to follow the
                  accounting guidelines pursuant to Accounting Principles Board
                  Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
                  ("Opinion 25"), for stock-based compensation and to furnish
                  the pro forma disclosures as required under Statement 148. See
                  note 8 for further discussion of stock options.

                  The Company has a Long-Term Omnibus Plan (the "Plan") pursuant
                  to which the board of directors may grant stock options and
                  other stock-based awards to officers, directors and other key
                  employees. The Plan provides for the issuance of up to 12% of
                  the Company's common shares outstanding (diluted) not to
                  exceed 8.5 million shares. Stock options are granted with an
                  exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value at the
                  date of grant. All stock options granted have ten year terms,
                  contain vesting terms of one to five years from the date of
                  grant and may have certain dividend equivalent rights.
                  Restricted stock generally vests over a period of four years,
                  although certain grants cliff vest after eight years, but
                  contain a provision that allows for accelerated vesting over a
                  shorter term if certain performance criteria are met.
                  Restricted stock grants also have certain dividend equivalent

                                      F-11

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (i)      Stock-Based Compensation (continued)

                  rights under the Plan. Compensation expense is measured at the
                  grant date and recognized ratably over the expected vesting
                  period. At December 31, 2002, there were approximately 1.3
                  million shares available for grant under the Plan.

                  On December 17, 2002, 336,350 shares of restricted stock were
                  granted under the Plan of which 232,758 shares vest at the
                  rate of 25% per year for four years, and 103,592 cliff vest
                  after eight years, but have the ability to accelerate vesting
                  under the terms described above. The fair value of the
                  Company's stock at the date of grant was $31.27. The Company
                  also granted 45,195 shares on September 30, 2002 in connection
                  with the repayment of certain stock purchase loans further
                  discussed below. The fair value of the Company's stock at the
                  date of grant was $31.00. On December 14, 2001, 328,960 shares
                  of restricted stock were granted under the Plan of which
                  222,508 shares vest at the rate of 25% per year for four
                  years, and 106,452 cliff vest after eight years, but have the
                  ability to accelerate vesting under the terms described above.
                  The fair value of the Company's stock at the date of grant was
                  $26.40. Based on achieving certain performance criteria,
                  18.75% of the eight-year vesting options vested during 2002.
                  Based upon restricted stock vesting in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
                  the Company recorded compensation expense of $5.6 million,
                  $2.5 million and $1.1 million, respectively, for restricted
                  stock. During 2002, 2001 and 2000 the Company recorded
                  compensation expense for dividend equivalents of $3.2 million,
                  $3.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively, for undistributed
                  restricted stock and unexercised stock options.

                  In previous years, as part of the Plan, the Company structured
                  stock purchase plans ("SPP loans") whereby executives could
                  acquire common stock at fair market value by investing their
                  own capital in combination with loans provided by Regency.
                  These interest-bearing, full recourse loans were secured by
                  stock, which was held as collateral by Regency. These loans
                  provided for partial forgiveness of the unpaid principal
                  balance over time based upon specified performance criteria
                  and the passage of time. The Company ceased making these types
                  of loans after 1998 and has not originated any new personal
                  loans to employees since that date. Effective September 30,
                  2002, all participants agreed to repay the entire balance of
                  their loans outstanding with a portion of the common shares
                  held as collateral, valued at fair market value as of
                  September 30, 2002. The Company, in return, granted the
                  participants restricted stock and stock options that are
                  intended to provide them with the same level of compensation
                  benefits that they would have received under existing
                  agreements for specified forgiveness amounts. These grants
                  were made in accordance with the existing Plan. During 2002,
                  $240,491 of unpaid principal was repaid in cash, $6 million
                  was repaid through the surrendering of shares held as
                  collateral, and $575,741 was forgiven and recorded as
                  compensation expense.

                  The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options
                  granted during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $1.94, $2.32 and $2.18,
                  respectively, on the date of grant using the Black Scholes
                  option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
                  assumptions: 2002 - expected dividend yield 6.8%, risk-free
                  interest rate of 2%, expected volatility 19.1%, and an
                  expected life of 2.5 years; 2001 - expected dividend yield
                  7.3%, risk-free interest rate of 5.2%, expected volatility
                  20%, and an expected life of 6 years; 2000 - expected dividend
                  yield 8.1%, risk-free interest rate of 6.7%, expected
                  volatility 20%, and an expected life of 6 years. The Company
                  applies Opinion 25 in accounting for its Plan, and
                  accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its
                  stock options in the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-12

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (i)      Stock-Based Compensation (continued)

                  Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair
                  value at the grant date for its stock options under Statement
                  123, the Company's net income for common stockholders would
                  have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below (in
                  thousands except per share data):

         (j)      Recent Accounting Pronouncements

                  In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46
                  "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("Interpretation
                  46"), which is intended to clarify the application of
                  Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial
                  Statements", to certain entities in which equity investors do
                  not have the characteristics of a controlling financial
                  interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the
                  entity to finance its activities without additional
                  subordinated financial support from other parties, or variable
                  interest entities, as defined in the interpretation.
                  Interpretation 46 will require that certain variable interest
                  entities be consolidated into the majority variable interest
                  holder's financial statements and is applicable immediately to
                  all variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003,
                  and as of the first interim period beginning after June 15,
                  2003 to those variable interest entities created before
                  February 1, 2003. The Company has not yet completed its
                  evaluation of the applicability of this interpretation to its
                  current structures, but does not believe its adoption will
                  have a material effect on the financial statements.

                  In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45
                  "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
                  Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
                  Others" ("Interpretation 45") which addresses the disclosures
                  to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
                  statements about its obligations under guarantees.
                  Interpretation 45 also requires the recognition of a liability
                  by a guarantor at the inception of certain guarantees. The
                  Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of
                  Interpretation 45 and will apply the recognition and
                  measurement provisions for all guarantees entered into or
                  modified after December 31, 2002.

                  In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for
                  Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" ("Statement
                  146"). Statement 146 addresses financial accounting and
                  reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal
                  activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94-3, "Liability
                  Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and

                                      F-13


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

         (j)      Recent Accounting Pronouncements (continued)

                  Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs
                  Incurred in a Restructuring)". Statement 146 is effective for
                  exit and disposal activities initiated after December 31,
                  2002. The Company has not initiated any such exit and disposal
                  activities since the effective date and does not believe it
                  will have a material effect on the financial statements.

                  In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of
                  FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 62, Amendment of FASB Statement
                  No. 13, and Technical Corrections" ("Statement 145"). This
                  statement rescinds FASB Statement No. 4, "Reporting Gains and
                  Losses from Extinguishment of Debt" which required all gains
                  and losses from extinguishments of debt to be aggregated and,
                  if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of
                  related income tax effect. Upon adoption of Statement 145,
                  classification of these gains and losses will be evaluated
                  under the criteria set forth in APB Opinion No. 30, "Reporting
                  the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal
                  of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and
                  Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions". The Company
                  elected to adopt the provisions related to the rescission of
                  SFAS No. 4 and reported a gain on early extinguishment of debt
                  totaling $2.4 million (note 5), which is included in other
                  income on the accompanying statements of operations for the
                  year ended December 31, 2002.

         (k)      Reclassifications

                  Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2001 and 2000
                  amounts to conform to classifications adopted in 2002.

2.       Segments

         The Company was formed, and currently operates, for the purpose of 1)
         operating retail shopping centers (Retail segment), and 2) developing
         properties intended for sale or partial sale to a joint venture
         (including shopping centers, outparcels and build-to-suit properties)
         and providing management services to both affiliate and non-affiliate
         third parties (Service operations segment). The Company's reportable
         segments offer different products or services and are managed
         separately because each requires different strategies and management
         expertise. There are no inter-segment sales or transfers.

         The Company assesses and measures operating results starting with net
         operating income for the Retail segment and income for the Service
         operations segment and converts such amounts into a performance measure
         referred to as Funds from Operations ("FFO"). Net operating income for
         the Retail segment and income for the Service operations segment
         includes gains and losses on the sale of operating properties and
         properties in development, as well as, the related operating income
         that is reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying
         consolidated statements of operations, as required by Statement 144.
         The operating results for the individual retail shopping centers have
         been aggregated since all of the Company's shopping centers exhibit
         highly similar economic characteristics, and offer similar degrees of
         risk and opportunities for growth. FFO as defined by the National
         Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") means net
         income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally
         accepted in the United States of America) excluding gains (or losses)
         from sales of property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after
         adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
         Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are
         calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company includes gains
         or losses related to developments and land that are included in the
         Service operations segment in its calculation of FFO. The Company also
         adjusts FFO for distributions made to holders of Preferred Units or
         preferred stock when the underlying securities are convertible into
         common stock of the Company and are dilutive to FFO. While management
         believes that diluted FFO is the most relevant and widely used measure

                                      F-14


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

2.       Segments (continued)

         of the Company's performance, such amount does not represent cash flow
         from operations as defined by accounting principles generally accepted
         in the United States of America, should not be considered an
         alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating
         performance, and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash
         flow needs. Additionally, the Company's calculation of diluted FFO, as
         provided on the following page, may not be comparable to similarly
         titled measures of other REITs.

         The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
         in note 1. The revenues, diluted FFO, and assets for each of the
         reportable segments are summarized as follows for the years ended
         December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Assets not attributable to a
         particular segment consist primarily of cash and deferred costs.


































                                      F-15


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

2.       Segments (continued)



                                      F-16


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002


3.       Discontinued Operations

         During 2002, the Company sold 41 operating properties for proceeds of
         $308.6 million and their net income is included in discontinued
         operations. These sales resulted in a net gain of $18.7 million, which
         is reported as a gain on sale in discontinued operations. The revenues
         from the properties disposed of were $23.9 million, $30.6 million and
         $25.2 million for the three years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and
         2000, respectively. The operating income from these properties was $10
         million, $12.1 million and $11.2 million for the three years ended
         December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 respectively. Income from
         discontinued operations for the Retail segment was $17.4 million, $12.9
         million and $11.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001
         and 2000, respectively. Income (loss) from discontinued operations for
         the Service operations segment was $11.3 million, ($756,507) and
         ($235,944) for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
         respectively. Operating income and gains on sales in discontinued
         operations are shown net of minority interest of exchangeable operating
         partnership units totaling $726,560, $312,743, and $315,129 for the
         years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

4.       Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Partnerships

         During 2002, the Company acquired five grocery-anchored shopping
         centers for $106.9 million. During 2001, the Company acquired three
         grocery-anchored shopping centers for $72.8 million. The 2002 and 2001
         acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and the results of their
         operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from
         the date of the acquisition. Acquisitions (either individually or in
         the aggregate) were not significant to the operations of the Company in
         the year in which they were acquired or the year preceding the
         acquisition.

         The Company accounts for all investments in which it owns 50% or less
         and does not have a controlling financial interest using the equity
         method. The Company's combined investment in these partnerships was
         $125.5 million and $75.2 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
         respectively. Net income, which includes all operating results, as well
         as, gains and losses on sales of properties within the joint ventures,
         is allocated to the Company in accordance with the respective
         partnership agreements. Such allocations of net income are recorded in
         equity in income of investments in real estate partnerships in the
         accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

         During 2002, the Company sold eleven assets for net proceeds of $94.9
         million to Macquarie CountryWide-Regency, LLC, ("MCWR"), a joint
         venture with an affiliate of Macquarie CountryWide Trust of Australia,
         a Sydney, Australia-based property trust focused on investing in
         grocery-anchored shopping centers, in which the Company has a 25%
         interest. The Company holds a note receivable of $25.1 million related
         to the sale of four of the assets in December 2002. The note receivable
         has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.5% and matures on April 30, 2003.
         The gain recognition is recorded on only that portion of the sale to
         MCWR not owned by the Company. The Company recognized gains on these
         sales of $11.1 million which represents $5.3 million recorded as gain
         on sale of operating properties and $5.8 million related to properties
         in development, recorded as service operations revenue in the Company's
         consolidated statements of operations.

         During 2002, the Company sold an asset for net proceeds of $17.5
         million to Columbia Regency Retail Partners, LLC ("Columbia"), a joint
         venture with the Oregon State Treasury that was formed for the purpose
         of investing in retail shopping centers in which the Company has a 20%
         interest.


                                      F-17


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

4.       Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Partnerships (continued)

         With the exception of Columbia and MCWR, both of which intend to
         continue expanding their investment in shopping centers, the
         investments in real estate partnerships represent single asset entities
         formed for the purpose of developing or owning retail based commercial
         real estate.

         The Company's investments in real estate partnerships as of December
         31, 2002 and 2001 consist of the following (in thousands):



         Summarized financial information for the unconsolidated investments on
         a combined basis, is as follows (in thousands):



         The revenues and expenses on a combined basis are summarized as follows
         for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:




         Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had notes payable of
         $167.1 million at December 31, 2002 and the Company's proportionate
         share of these loans was $38.8 million.


                                      F-18


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

5.       Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit

         The Company's outstanding debt at December 31, 2002 and 2001 consists
         of the following (in thousands):



         Interest rates paid on the unsecured line of credit (the "Line"), which
         are based on LIBOR plus .85%, were 2.288% and 2.913% at December 31,
         2002 and 2001, respectively. The spread that the Company pays on the
         Line is dependent upon maintaining specific investment grade ratings.
         The Company is required to comply, and is in compliance with, certain
         financial and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured
         financing. The Line is used primarily to finance the acquisition and
         development of real estate, but is also available for general working
         capital purposes.

         On January 15, 2002, the Company, through RCLP, completed a $250
         million unsecured debt offering with an interest rate of 6.75%. These
         notes were priced at 99.850%, are due on January 15, 2012 and are
         guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of these offerings were
         used to reduce the balance of the Line.

         Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, and may
         be prepaid, but could be subject to a yield-maintenance premium.
         Mortgage loans are generally due in monthly installments of interest
         and principal and mature over various terms through 2019. Variable
         interest rates on mortgage loans are currently based on LIBOR plus a
         spread in a range of 130 basis points to 175 basis points. Fixed
         interest rates on mortgage loans range from 6.64% to 9.5%.

         As of December 31, 2002, scheduled principal repayments on notes
         payable and the Line were as follows (in thousands):



         During 2002, the Company assumed debt with a fair value of $46.7
         million related to the acquisition of five properties, which includes
         debt premiums of $2.7 million based upon the above market interest
         rates of the debt instruments. Debt premiums are being amortized over
         the terms of the related debt instruments on the effective interest
         rate method.

                                      F-19


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

5.       Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit (continued)

         During 2002, the Company extinguished the debt on Worthington Park
         Centre for the face amount of the note, resulting in the recognition of
         a gain of $2.4 million on early extinguishment representing the
         remaining unamortized premium recorded upon assumption of the debt. The
         gain has been recorded in other income on the accompanying consolidated
         statements of operations.

         The fair value of the Company's notes payable and Line are estimated
         based on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the
         same terms and remaining maturities. Variable rate notes payable and
         the Line are considered to be at fair value, since the interest rates
         on such instruments reprice based on current market conditions. Fixed
         rate loans assumed in connection with real estate acquisitions are
         recorded in the accompanying financial statements at fair value. Based
         on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for loans
         with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term
         debt is $1.4 billion.

6.       Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest

(a)      The Company, through RCLP, has issued Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
         Units ("Preferred Units") in various amounts since 1998. The issues
         were sold primarily to institutional investors in private placements
         for $100 per unit. The Preferred Units, which may be called by RCLP at
         par after certain dates, have no stated maturity or mandatory
         redemption, and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at fixed rates. At
         any time after ten years from the date of issuance, the Preferred Units
         may be exchanged by the holder for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
         Stock ("Preferred Stock") at an exchange rate of one share for one
         unit. The Preferred Units and the related Preferred Stock are not
         convertible into common stock of the Company. The net proceeds of these
         offerings were used to reduce the Line. At December 31, 2002 and 2001
         the face value of total Preferred Units issued was $384 million with an
         average fixed distribution rate of 8.72%.

         Terms and conditions of the Preferred Units are summarized as follows:




(b)      Security Capital owns approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common
         stock of Regency; however, its ability to exercise voting control over
         these shares is limited by the Stockholders Agreement by and among
         Regency, Security Capital Holdings S.A., Security Capital U.S. Realty
         and The Regency Group, Inc. dated as of July 10, 1996, as amended,
         including amendments to reflect Security Capital's purchase of Security
         Capital Holdings S.A. and the liquidation of Security Capital U.S.
         Realty (as amended, the "Stockholders Agreement").



                                      F-20


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

6.       Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest (continued)

         The Stockholders Agreement provides that during the standstill period
         Security Capital will vote all of its shares of Regency in accordance
         with the recommendations of Regency's board of directors or
         proportionally in accordance with the votes of the other holders of
         Regency common stock. This broad voting restriction is subject to a
         limited qualified exception pursuant to which Security Capital can vote
         its shares of Regency in its sole and absolute discretion with regard
         to amendments to Regency's charter or by-laws that would materially
         adversely affect Security Capital and with regard to "Extraordinary
         Transactions" (which include mergers, consolidations, sale of a
         material portion of Regency's assets, issuances of securities in an
         amount which requires a shareholder vote and other similar transactions
         out of the ordinary course of business). However, the limited exception
         is itself further qualified. Even with respect to charter and by-law
         amendments and Extraordinary Transactions, Security Capital may only
         vote shares representing ownership of 49% of the outstanding Regency
         common stock at its discretion, any shares owned by Security Capital in
         excess of 49% must be voted in accordance with the recommendations of
         Regency's board of directors or proportionally in accordance with the
         votes of the other holders of Regency common stock. With regard to
         Extraordinary Transactions which require a 2/3rds vote (i.e. where
         Security Capital could block the outcome if it voted 49% of the stock),
         Security Capital may only vote shares representing ownership of 32% of
         the outstanding Regency common stock. Security Capital may vote its
         shares to elect a certain number of nominees to the Regency board of
         directors, however this right is similarly limited. Security Capital
         has the right to nominate the greater of three directors or the number
         of directors proportionate to its ownership, however Security Capital
         may not nominate more than 49% of the Regency board of directors.

         The effect of these limitations is such that notwithstanding the fact
         that Security Capital owns more than a majority of the currently
         outstanding shares of Regency common stock, Security Capital may not,
         in compliance with the standstill provisions of the Stockholders
         Agreement, exercise voting control with respect to more than 49% of the
         outstanding shares of Regency (and may vote those shares in its
         discretion only with respect to the limited matters listed above).

         Effective May 14, 2002, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GE
         Capital merged into Security Capital with Security Capital surviving as
         an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GE Capital. On July 12, 2002,
         Security Capital advised Regency that, pursuant to the terms of the
         Stockholders Agreement, Security Capital has elected to cancel the
         otherwise automatic extension of the standstill period effective April
         10, 2003.

(c)      During 2002, the holder of the Series 2 preferred stock converted
         1,037,107 preferred shares into common stock at a conversion ratio of
         1:1.

         During 1999, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of
         approximately $65 million of the Company's outstanding shares through
         periodic open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions.
         During 2000, the Company completed the program by purchasing 3.25
         million shares.







                                      F-21


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

7.       Earnings per Share

         The following summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted earnings
         per share for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 (in
         thousands except per share data):




8.       Stock Option Plan

         Under the Plan, the Company may grant stock options to its officers,
         directors and other key employees. Options are granted at fair market
         value on the date of grant, vest 25% per year, and expire after ten
         years. Stock option grants also receive dividend equivalents for a
         specified period of time equal to the Company's dividend yield less the
         average dividend yield of the S&P 500 as of the grant date. Dividend
         equivalents are funded in Regency common stock, and vest at the same
         rate as the options upon which they are based.


                                      F-22


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

8.       Stock Option Plan (continued)

         The following table reports stock option activity during the periods
         indicated:




         The following table presents information regarding all options
         outstanding at December 31, 2002:




         The following table presents information regarding options currently
         exercisable at December 31, 2002:

                                                                        Weighted
           Number of                      Range of                      Average
            Options                       Exercise                      Exercise
          Exercisable                      Prices                        Price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             438,141             $      19.81 - 25.76               $    22.62
           2,195,253                    26.13 - 31.80                    29.25
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           2,633,394             $      19.81 - 31.80               $    28.15
================================================================================


                                      F-23


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002

9.       Operating Leases

         The Company's properties are leased to tenants under operating leases
         with expiration dates extending to the year 2032. Future minimum rents
         under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2002, excluding
         tenant reimbursements of operating expenses and excluding additional
         contingent rentals based on tenants' sales volume are as follows (in
         thousands):

                  Year Ending December 31,                   Amount
               -----------------------------------------------------------------

                            2003                    $        262,429
                            2004                             250,045
                            2005                             221,898
                            2006                             187,718
                            2007                             154,413
                         Thereafter                           79,470
                                                       --------------

                            Total                   $      1,155,973
                                                       ==============

         The shopping centers' tenant base includes primarily national and
         regional supermarkets, drug stores, discount department stores and
         other retailers and, consequently, the credit risk is concentrated in
         the retail industry. There were no tenants that individually
         represented 10% or more of the Company's combined minimum rent.

10.      Contingencies

         The Company, like others in the commercial real estate industry, is
         subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The operation
         of dry cleaning plants at the Company's shopping centers is the
         principal environmental concern. The Company believes that the tenants
         who operate these plants do so in accordance with current laws and
         regulations and has established procedures to monitor their operations.
         Additionally, the Company uses all legal means to cause tenants to
         remove dry cleaning plants from its shopping centers. Where available,
         the Company has applied and been accepted into state- sponsored
         environmental programs. The Company has a blanket environmental
         insurance policy that covers it against third-party liabilities and
         remediation costs on shopping centers that currently have no known
         environmental contamination. The Company has also placed environmental
         insurance on specific properties with known contamination in order to
         mitigate its environmental risk. Management believes that the ultimate
         disposition of currently known environmental matters will not have a
         material effect on the financial position, liquidity, or operations of
         the Company. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had recorded
         environmental liabilities of $1.6 million and $1.8 million,
         respectively.



                                      F-24


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2002


11.      Market and Dividend Information (Unaudited)

         The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
         ("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". The Company currently has
         approximately 4,000 shareholders. The following table sets forth the
         high and low prices and the cash dividends declared on the Company's
         common stock by quarter for 2002 and 2001:




12.      Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

         Presented below is a summary of the consolidated quarterly financial
         data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 (amounts in
         thousands, except per share data):





                                      F-25


                          Independent Auditors' Report
                         On Financial Statement Schedule


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation


Under date of January 31, 2003, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Regency Centers Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and
2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2002, as contained in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
2002. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule as listed
in the accompanying index on page F-1 of the annual report on Form 10-K for the
year 2002. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.







                                  /s/ KPMG LLP




Jacksonville, Florida
January 31, 2003















                                       S-1


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 2002




                                      S-2





                                      S-3





                                      S-4




                                      S-5






                                      S-6






                                      S-7





                                      S-8




                                      S-9


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 2002



Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of operation is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

          Buildings and improvements                  up to 40 years

          The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
          $2.6 billion at December 31, 2002.



The changes in total real estate assets for the period ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000:





The changes in accumulated depreciation for the period ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000:





                                      S-10


