
10-K405
dkm140.txt
FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2001

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549
                                   FORM 10 - K

(X)      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

(  )     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               For the transition period from _______ to _________

                         Commission File Number 1-12298

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         FLORIDA                                      59-3191743
(State or other jurisdiction of                    (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                    identification No.)

121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200                  (904) 598-7000
Jacksonville, Florida          32202           (Registrant's telephone No.)
(Address of principal       (zip code)
executive offices)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value
                                (Title of Class)

                             New York Stock Exchange
                     (Name of exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
                                                                    ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.      YES  (X)          NO  (  )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or  information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.    (X)

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $661,709,989 based on the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on March 20, 2002
The approximate number of shares of Registrant's voting common stock outstanding
was 58,109,679 as of March 20, 2002.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 2002 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.





                                

                                                                      Form 10-K
Item No.                                                             Report Page
- -------                                                              -----------

                                     PART I

1.       Business.........................................................1

2.       Properties.......................................................4

3.       Legal Proceedings...............................................23

4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.............23

                                     PART II

5.       Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Shareholder Matters.............................................23

6.       Selected Consolidated Financial Data............................24

7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations...........................................25

7a.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk......32

8.       Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........32

9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure............................................32

                                    PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..............33

11.      Executive Compensation..........................................33

12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management..33

13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..................33

                                     PART IV

14.      Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
         Form 8-K........................................................33





Forward Looking Statements

         This report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements
under the federal securities law. These statements are based on current
expectations, estimates, and projections about the industry and markets in which
Regency Centers Corporation operates, management's beliefs, and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve
certain credit risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. Actual
operating results may be affected by changes in national and local economic
conditions, competitive market conditions, weather, obtaining governmental
approvals and meeting development schedules, and therefore, may differ
materially from what is expressed or forecasted in this report.

                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

         Regency completed its initial public offering in 1993 (NYSE: REG) and
became a qualified self-administered, self-managed real estate investment trust
(REIT). Through a series of strategic acquisitions in 1997, 1998 and 1999, we
expanded the scope of our operations and became a nationally based owner,
operator, and developer of grocery anchored retail shopping centers.

         Currently, our assets total approximately $3.1 billion with 272
shopping centers in 24 states. At December 31, 2001, our gross leasable area
("GLA") totaled 29.1 million square feet and was 94.9% leased. Geographically,
22.5% of our GLA is located in Florida, 16.8% in California, 15.7% in Texas,
8.8% in Georgia, 6.4% in Ohio, and 29.8% spread throughout 19 other states.

         Regency currently operates for the purpose of 1) owning, operating and
developing retail shopping centers (Retail segment), and 2) providing services
that earn management fees and commissions from third parties, and development
related profits and fees earned from the sales of shopping centers, outparcels
and build-to-suit properties (Service operations segment). The Company's
reportable segments offer different products or services and are managed
separately because each requires different strategies and management expertise.
For further discussion, refer to footnote 3, Segments, in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements.

         We previously operated under the name Regency Realty Corporation, but
changed our name to Regency Centers Corporation in February 2001 to more
appropriately acknowledge our brand and position in the shopping center
industry. We invest in retail shopping centers through Regency Centers, L.P.,
("RCLP") an operating partnership in which Regency currently owns approximately
97% of the outstanding common partnership units ("Units"). The acquisition,
development, operations and financing activity of Regency including the issuance
of Units or preferred units is executed by RCLP.

Operating and Investment Philosophy

         Our key operating and investment objective is to create long-term
shareholder value by:

         o      focusing on a core portfolio of high quality grocer-anchored
                community and neighborhood shopping centers in attractive
                markets;

         o      maximizing the value of the portfolio through our research-based
                investment strategies, our Premier Customer Initiative program,
                and our customer-driven development program; and

         o      using conservative financial management to cost effectively
                access capital to fund our growth through our self-funding
                business model.

Grocer-Anchored Strategy

         We focus our investment strategy on grocery-anchored retail shopping
centers that are located in attractive trade areas and are anchored by a
dominant grocer in the local market. A neighborhood center is a convenient,
cost-effective distribution platform for food retailers. Grocer-anchored centers
generate substantial daily traffic and offer sustainable competitive advantages
to their tenants. This high traffic generates increased sales, thereby driving
higher occupancy, higher rental rates, and higher rental rate growth for Regency
- -- meaning that we can sustain our cash flow growth and increase the value of
our portfolio over the long term.




Research Driven Market Selection

         Grocer-anchored centers are best located in neighborhood trade areas
with attractive demographics. For a typical Regency grocery anchored development
, we target a 3-mile population of approximately 75,000 people with an average
household income in excess of $75,000 and a projected 5-year population growth
of approximately 8 percent. The trade areas of our centers are growing nearly
twice as fast and household incomes are more than 25% greater than the national
averages, translating into more retail buying power. Once specific markets are
selected, we seek the best location within the best neighborhoods, preferably
occupying the dominant corner, close to residential communities, with excellent
visibility for our tenants and easy access for neighborhood shoppers.


Premier Customer Initiative

         For the same reason we choose to anchor our centers with leading
grocers, we also seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty
tenants. We have created a formal partnering process -- the Premier Customer
Initiative (PCI) -- to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our
non-grocer specialty retailers. The objective of PCI is for Regency to build a
base of specialty tenants who represent the "best-in-class" operators in their
respective merchandising categories. Such tenants reinforce the consumer appeal
and other strengths of a center's grocer-anchor, help to stabilize a center's
occupancy, reduce releasing downtime, lower tenant turnover and yield higher
sustainable rents.

Customer-driven Development

         Development is customer-driven, meaning we generally have an executed
lease from the anchor in hand before we purchase the land and begin
construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our grocery and specialty
retail customers, result in modern shopping centers with 20-year leases from the
grocer-anchors and produce either attractive returns on invested capital or
profits from sale.


Capital Strategy

         We intend to maintain a conservative capital structure designed to fund
our growth programs without returning to the equity markets or compromising our
investment-grade ratings. This approach is founded on our self-funding business
model. This model utilizes center "recycling" as a key component. Our recycling
strategy calls for us to re-deploy the proceeds from the sales of outparcels,
developments and low growth, lower quality operating properties into new
higher-quality developments and acquisitions that we expect will generate
sustainable revenue growth and more attractive returns on invested capital. Our
commitment to maintaining a high-quality portfolio dictates that we continually
assess the value of all of our properties and sell those that no longer meet our
long-term investment standards to third parties. Joint venturing of assets will
also provide Regency with a capital source for new development, while earning
market based fees as the asset manager.

Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Regency Common Stock

         We are subject to certain business risks arising in connection with
owning real estate which include, among others:

         o      the bankruptcy or insolvency of, or a downturn in the business
                of, any of our major tenants could reduce cash flow,

         o      the possibility that such tenants will not renew their leases as
                they expire or renew at lower rental rates could reduce cash
                flow,

         o      risks related to the internet and e-commerce reducing the demand
                for shopping centers,

         o      vacated anchor space will affect the entire shopping center
                because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer
                drawing power,






         o      poor market conditions could create an over supply of space or a
                reduction in demand for real estate in markets where Regency
                owns shopping centers,

         o      risks relating to leverage, including uncertainty that Regency
                will be able to refinance its indebtedness, and the risk of
                higher interest rates,

         o      unsuccessful development activities could reduce cash flow,

         o      Regency's inability to satisfy its cash requirements from
                operations and the possibility that Regency may be required to
                borrow funds to meet distribution requirements in order to
                maintain its qualification as a REIT,

         o      potential liability for unknown or future environmental matters
                and costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities
                Act,

         o      the risk of uninsured losses, and

         o      unfavorable economic conditions could also result in the
                inability of tenants in certain retail sectors to meet their
                lease obligations and otherwise could adversely affect Regency's
                ability to attract and retain desirable tenants.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

         Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain
hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required
remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely
affect the owner's ability to sell or rent the property or borrow using the
property as collateral. We have a number of properties that will require or are
currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. These
remediations are not expected to have a material financial effect on Regency due
to financial statement reserves, insurance programs designed to mitigate the
cost of remediation and various state-regulated programs that shift the
responsibility and cost to the state.

Competition

         We believe the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented.
Regency faces competition from other REITs in the development, acquisition,
ownership and leasing of shopping centers as well as from numerous local,
regional and national real estate developers and owners.

Changes in Policies

         Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that govern our
investment and operating strategies including, among others, debt and equity
financing policies, quarterly distributions to shareholders, and REIT tax
status. The Board of Directors may amend these policies at any time without a
vote of Regency's shareholders.

Employees

         Our headquarters are located at 121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200,
Jacksonville, Florida. Regency presently maintains 18 offices in 12 states where
it conducts management, leasing and development activities. At December 31,
2001, Regency had approximately 365 employees and believes that relations with
its employees are good.






Item 2. Properties

          Regency's properties summarized by state including their gross
leasable areas (GLA) follows:



          * Excludes pre-stabilized properties under development







Item 2. Properties (continued)

         The following table summarizes the largest tenants occupying Regency's
shopping centers based upon a percentage of total annualized base rent exceeding
 .5% at December 31, 2001. The table includes 100% of the base rent from leases
of properties owned by joint ventures.


           Summary of Principal Tenants > .5% of Annualized Base Rent
                    (including Properties Under Development)




        Regency's leases have lease terms generally ranging from three to five
years for tenant space under 5,000 square feet. Leases greater than 10,000
square feet generally have lease terms in excess of five years, mostly comprised
of anchor tenants. Many of the anchor leases contain provisions allowing the
tenant the option of extending the term of the lease at expiration. Regency's
leases provide for the monthly payment in advance of fixed minimum rentals,
additional rents calculated as a percentage of the tenant's sales, the tenant's
pro rata share of real estate taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance
expenses, and reimbursement for utility costs if not directly metered.











Item 2. Properties (continued)

        The following table sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for the
        next ten years, assuming that no tenants exercise renewal options:



(1) leased currently under month to month rent or in process of renewal
(2) total minimum rent includes current minimum rent and future contractual rent
    steps for all properties, but excludes additional rent such as percentage
    rent, common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance
    reimbursements

         See the property table below and also see Item 7, Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further information about Regency's properties.













(1)     Or latest renovation
(2)     Includes development properties.  If development properties are
          excluded, the total percentage leased would be 94.9% for Company
          shopping centers.
(3)     Property under development or redevelopment.
(4)     Tenant owns its own building.
(5)     Owned by a partnership with outside investors in which the Partnership
          or an affiliate is the general partner.





Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         Regency is, from time to time, a party to legal proceedings, which
arise, in the ordinary course of its business. Regency is not currently involved
in any litigation nor, to management's knowledge, is any litigation threatened
against Regency, the outcome of which would, in management's judgement based on
information currently available, have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of Regency.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         No matters were submitted for stockholder vote during the fourth
quarter of 2001.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

         Regency's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". Regency currently has approximately 4,000
shareholders. The following table sets forth the high and low prices and the
cash dividends declared on Regency's common stock by quarter for 2001 and 2000.




         Regency intends to pay regular quarterly distributions to its common
stockholders. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion
of the Board of Directors, and will depend upon cash generated by operating
activities, Regency's financial condition, capital requirements, annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. Regency anticipates that for the foreseeable future, cash available
for distribution will be greater than earnings and profits due to non-cash
expenses, primarily depreciation and amortization, to be incurred by Regency.
Distributions by Regency to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings
and profits for federal income tax purposes will be taxable to stockholders as
ordinary dividend income. Distributions in excess of earnings and profits
generally will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Such distributions
have the effect of deferring taxation until the sale of a stockholder's common
stock. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Regency must make
annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of its taxable income.
Under certain circumstances, which management does not expect to occur, Regency
could be required to make distributions in excess of cash available for
distributions in order to meet such requirements. Regency currently maintains
the Regency Centers Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
which enables its stockholders to automatically reinvest distributions, as well
as, make voluntary cash payments towards the purchase of additional shares.

         Under the loan agreement with the lenders of Regency's line of credit,
distributions may not exceed 95% of Funds from Operations ("FFO") based on the
immediately preceding four quarters. FFO is defined in accordance with the
NAREIT definition as described in Regency's consolidated financial statements.
Also, in the event of any monetary default, Regency may not make distributions
to stockholders.

The following describes the registrant's sales of unregistered securities during
the periods covered by this report, each sold in reliance on Rule 506 of the
Securities Act.

         No transactions to report during 2001.




Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data
         (in thousands, except per share data and number of properties)

         The following table sets forth Selected Financial Data on a historical
basis for the five years ended December 31, 2001, for Regency. This information
should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of Regency
(including the related notes thereto) and Management's Discussion and Analysis
of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations, each included elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. This historical Selected Financial Data has been derived from
the audited financial statements.





Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

         The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of Regency
Centers Corporation ("Regency" or "Company") appearing elsewhere within.

Organization
- ------------

         Regency is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT") which
began operations in 1993. We previously operated under the name Regency Realty
Corporation, but changed our name to Regency Centers Corporation in February
2001 to more appropriately acknowledge our brand and position in the shopping
center industry. We invest in retail shopping centers through our partnership
interest in Regency Centers, L.P., ("RCLP") an operating partnership in which
Regency currently owns approximately 97% of the outstanding common partnership
units ("Units"). The acquisition, development, operations and financing activity
of Regency, including the issuance of Units or preferred units, is executed by
RCLP.

Shopping Center Business
- ------------------------

          We are a national owner, operator and developer of grocery-anchored
neighborhood retail shopping centers. Our shopping centers summarized by state
and in order by largest holdings including their gross leasable areas (GLA)
follows:



          * Excludes pre-stabilized properties under development

          We are focused on building a portfolio of grocery-anchored
neighborhood shopping centers that should withstand adverse economic conditions
by providing convenient shopping for daily necessities and foot traffic for
adjacent local tenants. Regency's current investment markets have continued to
offer stable economies, and accordingly, we expect to realize growth in net
income as a result of increasing occupancy in the portfolio, increasing rental
rates, development and acquisition of shopping centers in targeted markets, and
redevelopment of existing shopping centers.



         The following table summarizes the four largest grocery tenants
         occupying our shopping centers at December 31, 2001:

(a)      Includes grocery tenant owned stores
(b)      Includes properties owned through joint ventures

Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers
- -----------------------------------------------

         We have implemented a growth strategy dedicated to developing and
acquiring high-quality shopping centers. Our development program makes a
significant contribution to our overall growth. Development is customer-driven,
meaning we generally have an executed lease in hand from the anchor before we
begin construction. Developments serve the growth needs of our grocery and
specialty retail customers, result in modern shopping centers with 20-year
leases from the grocer anchors, and produce either attractive returns on
invested capital or profits from sale. This development process can require 12
to 36 months from initial land or redevelopment acquisition through construction
and lease-up and finally stabilized income, depending upon the size and type of
project. Generally, anchor tenants begin operating their stores prior to
construction completion of the entire center, resulting in rental income during
the development phase.

         At December 31, 2001, we had 41 projects under construction or
undergoing major renovations, which, when complete will represent an investment
of $622 million before reimbursement of certain tenant-related costs and
expected sale proceeds from adjacent land and outparcels. Total costs necessary
to complete these developments are estimated to be $202 million and will be
expended through 2004. These developments are approximately 68% complete and 79%
pre-leased. During 2001, we also purchased three grocery anchored shopping
centers for $72.8 million, representing 435,720 square feet of GLA.

         Regency has a 20% equity interest in Columbia Regency Retail Partners,
LLC ("Columbia"), a joint venture with Columbia PERFCO Partners, L.P. ("PERFCO")
that was formed for the purpose of investing in retail shopping centers. During
2001, Columbia acquired two shopping centers from Regency for $32.3 million,
acquired two shopping centers from unaffiliated sellers for $42.0 million, and
acquired three shopping centers from PERFCO for $73.4 million. During 2001 and
2000, we recognized gains on the sale of shopping centers to Columbia of $1.0
million and $3.7 million, respectively, which represents gain recognition on
only that portion of Columbia not owned by us, and received net proceeds of
$24.9 million and $40.5 million, respectively.

         Regency has a 25% equity interest in Macquarie CountryWide-Regency,
LLC, ("MCWR") a joint venture with an affiliate of Macquarie CountryWide Trust
of Australia, a Sydney, Australia-based property trust focused on investing in
grocery-anchored shopping centers. During 2001, MCWR acquired five shopping
centers from Regency for $36.7 million. During 2001, the Company recognized
gains on the sale of shopping centers to MCWR of $1.8 million, which represents
gain recognition on only that portion of MCWR not owned by us, and received net
proceeds of $27.8 million.

         The Columbia and MCWR joint ventures intend to continue to acquire
retail shopping centers, some of which may be sold to them by Regency. We are
required to provide our pro rata share of the purchase price of real estate to
be acquired by these ventures.

         During 2000, we acquired the non-owned portion of two properties in one
joint venture for $2.5 million in cash. The net assets of the joint venture were
and continue to be consolidated into Regency. Prior to acquiring the non-owned
portion, the joint venture partner's interest was reflected as limited partners'
interest in consolidated partnerships in our financial statements. We also
acquired the non-owned portion of nine properties in five joint ventures,
previously accounted for using the equity method, for $4.4 million consisting of


cash, common stock and Units. As a result, these joint ventures are wholly owned
by us and are consolidated for financial reporting purposes as of the date of
the acquisition.

         On February 28, 1999, we acquired Pacific Retail Trust ("Pacific") for
approximately $1.157 billion. At the date of the acquisition, Pacific was
operating or had under development 71 retail shopping centers representing 8.4
million square feet of GLA. During 1998, we acquired 43 shopping centers and
joint ventures for a total investment of $384.3 million ("1998 Acquisitions")
excluding contingent consideration. During 2000 and 1999, we paid contingent
consideration of $5.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively, related to the
1998 Acquisitions. No additional contingent consideration is due related to
these acquisitions.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

         We expect that cash generated from revenues will provide the necessary
funds on a short-term basis to pay our operating expenses, interest expense,
scheduled principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, recurring capital
expenditures necessary to maintain our shopping centers properly, and
distributions to share and unit holders. Net cash provided by operating
activities was $184.1 million and $178.5 million for the years ended December
31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. During 2001 and 2000, we incurred capital
expenditures of $15.8 million and $19.1 million to improve our shopping center
portfolio, paid scheduled principal payments of $6.1 million and $6.2 million to
our lenders, and paid dividends and distributions of $154.4 million and $145.1
million to our share and unit holders.

         Although no tenant represents more than 10% of our annual base rental
revenues, and base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who
file bankruptcy have the right to cancel their leases and close the related
stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our
shopping centers filed bankruptcy and cancelled its leases, it could cause a
significant reduction to our revenues. We are not currently aware of any current
or pending bankruptcy of any of our tenants that would cause a significant
reduction to our revenues.

         We expect to meet long-term capital requirements for maturing debt, the
acquisition of real estate, and the renovation or development of shopping
centers from: (i) cash generated from operating activities after the payments
described above, (ii) proceeds from the sale of real estate, (iii) joint
venturing of real estate, (iv) increases in debt, and (v) equity raised in the
private or public markets. Proceeds from the sale of real estate includes the
sale of out-parcels and developments as well as the sale of low-growth shopping
centers. Our commitment to maintaining a high-quality portfolio dictates that we
continually assess the value of all of our properties and sell those that no
longer meet our long-term investment standards to third parties. Joint venturing
of assets provides Regency with a capital source for new development and
acquisitions, while earning market based fees as the asset manager. During 2001
and 2000, proceeds from the sale of real estate to third parties and joint
ventures were $142.0 million and $165.9 million, respectively.

         Net cash used in investing activities was $162.3 million and $335.3
million during 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily for the purposes discussed
under Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers. These amounts are net of
the proceeds from sales of real estate discussed above. Net cash used in
financing activities was $94.9 million in 2001 and net cash provided from
financing activities was $203.6 million in 2000. The net cash used in financing
activities was a result of reducing the balance of the line of credit (the
"Line") using cash balances available on December 31, 2000.

         Outstanding debt at December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of the
following (in thousands):



         Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, and may
be prepaid, but could be subject to a yield-maintenance premium. Mortgage loans
are generally due in monthly installments of interest and principal and mature
over various terms through 2019. Variable interest rates on mortgage loans are
currently based on LIBOR plus a spread in a range of 125 basis points to 175
basis points. Fixed interest rates on mortgage loans range from 6.82% to 9.5%.

         During 2001, we modified the terms of the Line by reducing the
commitment to $600 million, reducing the interest rate spread from 1.0% to .85%
and extending the maturity date to April 2004. A reduction in the Line allowed
us to reduce the commitment to a level that is sufficient to fund our short-term
capital needs without paying unnecessary fees on unused commitments not expected
to be used. Interest rates paid on the Line at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were
based on LIBOR plus .85% and 1.0% or 2.913% and 7.875%, respectively. The spread
that we pay on the Line is dependent upon maintaining specific investment grade
ratings. We are also required to comply, and are in compliance, with certain
financial and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing.
The Line is used primarily to finance the acquisition and development of real
estate, but is also available for general working capital purposes.

         Subsequent to December 31, 2001, we paid down the Line with the net
proceeds of an unsecured debt offering for $250 million completed on January 15,
2002. The notes have a fixed interest rate of 6.75%, were priced at 99.850%, are
due on January 15, 2012 and are guaranteed by Regency.

         On December 12, 2001, we completed a $20 million unsecured debt
offering with an interest rate of 7.25%. These notes were priced at 99.375% and
are due on December 12, 2011. On January 22, 2001, we completed a $220 million
unsecured debt offering with an interest rate of 7.95%. These notes were priced
at 99.867% and are due on January 15, 2011. The net proceeds of these offerings
were used to reduce the balance of the Line.

         During 2000, we completed $160 million of unsecured debt offerings with
an interest rate of 8.0% to 8.45% and are due in 2010. During 1999, we completed
$250 million of unsecured debt offerings with interest rates of 7.4% to 7.75%,
due in 2004 and 2009. The net proceeds of these offerings were used to reduce
the balance of the Line.

         As of December 31, 2001, scheduled principal repayments on notes
payable and the Line were as follows (in thousands):



         Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which we have an
investment also had mortgage loans payable of $67.5 million at December 31,
2001. Our proportionate share of these loans is $14.7 million. Mortgage loans
payable totaling $62.5 million are non-recourse and contain no other provisions
that would result in a contingent liability to the Company. The Company is the
guarantor of a $5.0 million mortgage loan for Regency Ocean East Partnership,
L.P.

             The fair value of our notes payable and the Line are estimated
based on the current rates available to us for debt of the same remaining
maturities. Variable rate notes payable and the Line are considered to be at
fair value since the interest rates on such instruments reprice based on current
market conditions. Fixed rate loans assumed in the connection with real estate
acquisitions are recorded in the accompanying financial statements at fair
value. Based on the borrowing rates currently available to us for loans with
similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt is $1.43
billion.



         RCLP has issued Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Preferred
Units") in various amounts since 1998. The issues were sold primarily to
institutional investors in private placements. The Preferred Units, which may be
called by RCLP at par after certain dates ranging from 2003 to 2005, have no
stated maturity or mandatory redemption, and pay a cumulative, quarterly
dividend at fixed rates ranging from 8.125% to 9.125%. At any time after 10
years from the date of issuance, the Preferred Units may be exchanged for
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Preferred Stock") at an exchange rate of
one share for one unit. The Preferred Units and the related Preferred Stock are
not convertible into Regency common stock. The net proceeds of these offerings
were used to reduce the Line. At December 31, 2001 and 2000 the face value of
total preferred units issued was $384 million with an average fixed distribution
rate of 8.72%.

         Our real estate portfolio grew by 5.6% during 2001 as a result of the
acquisition and development activity discussed above. We intend to continue to
grow our portfolio through acquisitions and development, either directly or
through our joint venture relationships. Because acquisition and development
activities are discretionary in nature, they are not expected to burden our
capital resources currently available for liquidity requirements. Regency
expects that cash provided by operating activities, unused amounts available
under the Line, and cash reserves are adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

Critical Accounting Policies
- ----------------------------

         In the course of developing and evaluating accounting policies and
procedures, we use estimates, assumptions and judgements to determine the most
appropriate methods to be applied. Such processes are used in determining
capitalization of costs related to real estate, value impairment of our real
estate portfolio, and taxable income.

         In determining capitalized costs related to real estate, we consider
whether costs incurred have extended the useful life of a property and should be
capitalized or if it is recurring maintenance and should be expensed to
operations; we evaluate the direct costs associated with our development
program, the size of the development pipeline, and our development success rate;
and as it pertains to capitalized interest, interest rates available to the
company, the start of the development process, and the date that the project has
been completed and ready for its intended use.

         In determining the fair value of our real estate portfolio, we consider
future cash flow projections on a property by property basis, current interest
rates, current market conditions of the geographical location of each property,
and the cost to sell.

         We believe that Regency qualifies and we intend for Regency to qualify
as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, Regency is allowed to
reduce taxable income by all or a portion of its distributions to stockholders.
As distributions have exceeded taxable income, no provision for federal income
taxes has been made

Results from Operations
- -----------------------

Comparison 2001 to 2000

         Revenues increased $27.0 million or 7% to $388.5 million in 2001. The
increase was due primarily to revenues from newly completed developments that
only partially operated during 2000, and from growth in rental rates at the
operating properties. Minimum rent increased $15.4 million or 6%, and recoveries
from tenants increased $6.4 million or 9%. At December 31, 2001, we were
operating or developing 272 shopping centers. We identify our shopping centers
as either development properties or stabilized properties. Development
properties are defined as properties that are in the construction and initial
lease-up process that are not yet fully leased (fully leased generally means
greater than 90% leased) and occupied. Stabilized properties are all properties
not identified as development. At December 31, 2001, we had 231 stabilized
shopping centers that were 94.9% leased. At December 31, 2000, these properties
were 95.4% leased. In 2001, rental rates grew by 10.5% from renewal leases and
new leases replacing previously occupied spaces in the stabilized properties.

         Service operations revenue includes management fees and commission
income, profits and losses from the sale of developed properties and gains or
losses from the sale of land and outparcels. The Company accounts for profit



recognition on sales of real estate in accordance with FASB Statement No. 66,
"Accounting for Sales of Real Estate." Profits from sales of real estate will
not be recognized by the Company unless a sale has been consummated; the buyer's
initial and continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a commitment to pay
for the property; the Company has transferred to the buyer the usual risks and
rewards of ownership; and the Company does not have substantial continuing
involvement with the property. Service operations revenue increased by $4.3
million to $31.5 million in 2001, or 16%. The increase was primarily due to a
$12.4 million increase in gains from the sale of land and outparcels, a $1.7
million increase in management fees primarily related to the Columbia and MCWR
joint ventures, offset by a $9.8 million reduction in development profits. The
reduction in development profits was a result of selling fewer developments
during 2001 vs. 2000.

         Operating expenses increased $17.8 million or 11% to $181.4 million in
2001. Combined operating and maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $6.7
million or 8% during 2001 to $89.0 million. The increase was primarily due to
expenses incurred by newly completed developments that only partially operated
during 2000, and general increases in operating expenses on the stabilized
properties. General and administrative expenses were $20.6 million during 2001
vs. $19.9 million in 2000 or 3% higher as a result of general salary and benefit
increases. Depreciation and amortization increased $8.1 million during 2001 or
14% primarily due to developments that only partially operated during 2000.

         We review our real estate portfolio for value impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable. We determine impairment based upon the difference
between estimated sales value (less estimated costs to sell) and net book value.
During 2001 and 2000 we recorded a provision for loss on operating properties
held for sale of $1.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively.

         Interest expense increased to $74.4 million in 2001 from $72.0 million
in 2000 or 3%. The increase was primarily due to higher debt balances and a
higher percentage of outstanding debt with fixed interest rates, which are
generally higher than variable interest rates. Regency had $1.4 billion and $1.3
billion of outstanding debt at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. On
December 31, 2001, 72% of outstanding debt had fixed interest rates vs. 61% on
December 31, 2000.

         Preferred unit distributions increased $3.9 million to $33.5 million
during 2001 as a result of the preferred units issued in 2000.

         Net income for common stockholders was $97.7 million in 2001 vs. $84.8
million in 2000, or a 15% increase.  Diluted earnings per share was $1.69 in
2001 vs. $1.49 in 2000, or 13% higher as a result of the increase in net income.

Comparison 2000 to 1999

         Revenues increased $59.7 million or 20% to $361.6 million in 2000. The
increase was due primarily to the Pacific acquisition, which did not occur until
February 28, 1999, revenues from newly completed developments that only
partially operated during 1999, and from growth in rental rates and occupancy
levels at the operating properties. Minimum rent increased $38.2 million or 18%,
and recoveries from tenants increased $13.8 million or 25%. At December 31,
2000, Regency was operating or developing 261 shopping centers. At December 31,
2000, we had 210 stabilized shopping centers that were 95.4% leased. At December
31, 1999, these properties were 94.2% leased. In 2000, rental rates grew by 8%
from renewal leases and new leases replacing previously occupied spaces in the
stabilized properties.

         Service operations revenue increased by $9.0 million to $27.2 million
in 2000, or 49%. The increase was primarily due to a $11.1 million increase in
development profits offset by a $2.1 million reduction in property management
fees. During 2000 we reduced the portfolio of properties managed for third party
owners that was unprofitable.

         Operating expenses increased $27.8 million or 20% to $163.6 million in
2000. Combined operating and maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $14.8
million or 22% during 2000 to $82.3 million. The increase was primarily due to
the Pacific acquisition, expenses incurred by newly completed developments that
only partially operated during 1999, and general increases in operating expenses
on the stabilized properties. General and administrative expenses were $19.9
million during 2000 vs. $19.3 million in 1999 or 3% higher as a result of
general salary and benefit increases, and new employees hired in 2000.
Depreciation and amortization increased $10.8 million during 2000 or 22%



primarily due to the Pacific acquisition and developments that only partially
operated during 1999.

         During 2000, we recorded a provision for loss on operating properties
held for sale of $13.0 million related to a portfolio of properties under
contract for sale that no longer met our long-term investment standards. These
properties were classified as operating properties held for sale at December 31,
2000, and depreciation and amortization was suspended.

         Interest expense increased to $72.0 million in 2000 from $60.1 million
in 1999 or 20%. The increase was primarily due to the assumption of debt from
the Pacific acquisition, and higher interest costs related to interest rate
increases on outstanding debt balances including the unsecured debt offerings
completed in 2000 and 1999.

         Preferred unit distributions increased $17.2 million to $29.6 million
during 2000 as a result of the preferred units issued in 2000 and 1999. Average
fixed distribution rates of the preferred units were 8.72% at December 31, 2000
vs. 8.71% at December 31, 1999.

         Net income for common stockholders was $84.8 million in 2000 vs. $87.6
million in 1999, or a 3% decrease. The decline was primarily a result of the
provision for loss on operating properties held for sale and increased preferred
unit distributions, net of the acquisition and development activity described
above. Diluted earnings per share was $1.49 in 2000 vs. $1.61 in 1999, or 7.5%
lower as a result of the decrease in net income.

New Accounting Standards and Accounting Changes
- -----------------------------------------------

         In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB
Statement No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets" ("Statement 144"), which supercedes FASB Statement No. 121, "Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
Of" ("Statement 121"). Statement 144 retains the fundamental provisions in
Statement 121 for recognizing and measuring impairment losses on long-lived
assets held for use and long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, while also
resolving significant implementation issues associated with Statement 121.
Regency is required to adopt Statement 144 no later than the year beginning
after December 15, 2001, and plans to adopt its provisions for the quarter
ending March 31, 2002. We have determined that our portfolio of operating
properties held for sale will have to be reevaluated given the establishment of
the six criteria set forth in Statement 144. We believe that the majority of the
assets will not meet all six criteria and thus will have to be reclassified as
properties to be held and used. We have determined that should we reclassify all
of these properties, no additional charges to expense would occur. We have
determined that the other provisions of Statement 144 will not have a
significant impact on operations.

         The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and
Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment to FASB Statement No. 133" ("FAS 138"),
which is effective for all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2000. FAS 138 and FAS 133 establish accounting and reporting standards
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. FAS 138 and FAS 133 require
entities to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. FAS 138 and FAS 133
will have no impact to the financial statements as we have no derivative
instruments.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

         Regency, like others in the commercial real estate industry, is subject
to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The operation of dry cleaning
plants at our shopping centers is the principal environmental concern. We
believe that the tenants who operate these plants do so in accordance with
current laws and regulations and have established procedures to monitor their
operations. Additionally, we use all legal means to cause tenants to remove dry
cleaning plants from our shopping centers. Where available, we have applied and
been accepted into state-sponsored environmental programs. We have a blanket
environmental insurance policy that covers Regency against third party
liabilities and remediation costs on shopping centers that currently have no
known environmental contamination. We have also placed environmental insurance
on specific properties with known contamination in order to mitigate Regency's



environmental risk. We believe that the ultimate disposition of currently known
environmental matters will not have a material effect on the financial position,
liquidity, or operations of Regency.

Inflation
- ---------

         Inflation has remained relatively low during 2001 and 2000 and has had
a minimal impact on the operating performance of the shopping centers; however,
substantially all of our long-term leases contain provisions designed to
mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses
enabling us to receive percentage rentals based on tenants' gross sales, which
generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally
increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses
are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation
indices. In addition, many of our leases are for terms of less than ten years,
which permits us to seek increased rents upon re-rental at market rates. Most of
our leases require the tenants to pay their share of operating expenses,
including common area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities,
thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses
resulting from inflation.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market Risk
- -----------

         Regency is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of
the Line and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and fund capital
expenditures and expansion of Regency's real estate investment portfolio and
operations. Regency's interest rate risk management objective is to limit the
impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower its
overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives Regency borrows primarily at
fixed rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest
rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk
on a related financial instrument. Regency has no plans to enter into derivative
or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes, and at December 31,
2001, Regency did not have any borrowings hedged with derivative financial
instruments.

         Regency's interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of
techniques. The table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands),
weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total
debt (in thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash
flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.


         As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2001, it does not consider those exposures or positions, which
could arise after that date. Moreover, because firm commitments are not
presented in the table above, the information presented therein has limited
predictive value. As a result, Regency's ultimate realized gain or loss with
respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise
during the period, Regency's hedging strategies at that time, and interest
rates.

Item 8.  Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in this
Report are listed in Part IV, Item 14(a).

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.



                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         Information concerning the directors of Regency is incorporated herein
by reference to Regency's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2002 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. The following provides information concerning the executive
officers of Regency.

         MARTIN E. STEIN, JR.  Mr. Stein, age 49, is Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of Regency.  He served as President of Regency from its
initial public offering in October 1993 until December 31, 1998. Mr. Stein also
served as President of Regency's predecessor real estate division since 1981,
and Vice President from 1976 to 1981. He is a director of Patriot Transportation
Holding, Inc., a publicly held transportation and real estate company, Stein
Mart, Inc. and Florida Rock Industries, Inc.

         MARY LOU FIALA.  Mrs. Fiala, age 50, became President and Chief
Operating Officer of Regency in January 1999.  Before joining Regency she was
Managing Director - Security Capital U.S. Realty Strategic Group from March
1997 to January 1999.  Ms. Fiala was Senior Vice President and Director of
Stores, New England - Macy's East/Federated Department Stores from 1994 to March
1997.  From 1976 to 1994, Ms. Fiala held various merchandising and store
operations positions with Macy's/Federated Department Stores.

         BRUCE M. JOHNSON  Mr. Johnson, age 54, has been Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer of Regency since its initial public offering in October
1993.  Mr. Johnson also served as Executive Vice President of Regency's
predecessor real estate division since 1979.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

         Regency's 2001 financial statements and financial statement schedule,
         together with the report of KPMG LLP are listed on the index
         immediately preceding the financial statements at the end of this
         report.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

          None



     (c)  Exhibits:


3.       Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

                  (i)      Restated Articles of Incorporation of Regency Centers
                           Corporation as amended to date.

                  (ii)     Restated Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation,
                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of the
                           Company's Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2000).

4.          (a)   See exhibits 3(i) and 3(ii) for provisions of the Articles of
                  Incorporation and Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation
                  defining rights of security holders.

            (b)   Indenture dated July 20, 1998 between Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                  trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  registration statement on Form S-4 of Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  No. 333-63723).

            (c)   Indenture dated March 9, 1999 between Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                  trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  registration statement on Form S-3 of Regency Centers, L.P.,
                  No. 333-72899)

            (d)   Indenture dated December 5, 2001 between Regency Centers,
                  L.P., the guarantors named therein and First Union National
                  Bank, as trustee (incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 4.4 of
                  Form 8-K of Regency Centers, L.P. filed December 10, 2001,
                  File No. 0-24763)

10.      Material Contracts

               ~(a)        Regency Centers Corporation 1993 Long Term Omnibus
                           Plan, as amended.

              ~*(b)        Form of Stock Purchase Award Agreement

              ~*(c)        Form of Management Stock Pledge Agreement, relating
                           to the Stock Purchase Award Agreement filed as
                           Exhibit 10(b)

              ~*(d)        Form of Promissory Note, relating to the Stock
                           Purchase Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(b)

              ~*(e)        Form of Option Award Agreement for Key Employees

              ~*(f)        Form of Option Award Agreement for Non-Employee
                           Directors

              ~*(g)        Annual Incentive for Management Plan

              ~*(h)        Form of Director/Officer Indemnification Agreement


- -------------------------
~           Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed
            pursuant to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).
*           Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
            Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
            (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference




              ~*(i)        Form of Non-Competition Agreement between Regency
                           Centers Corporation and Joan W. Stein, Robert L.
                           Stein, Richard W. Stein, the Martin E. Stein
                           Testamentary Trust A and the Martin E. Stein
                           Testamentary Trust B.

                (j)        The following documents relating to the purchase by
                           Security Capital U.S. Realty and Security Capital
                           Holdings, S.A. of up to 45% of the Registrant's
                           outstanding common stock:

                  ++       (i)     Stock Purchase Agreement dated June 11, 1996.

                  ++       (ii)    Stockholders' Agreement dated July 10, 1996.

                                   (A)     First Amendment of Stockholders'
                                           Agreement dated February 10, 1997
                                           (incorporated by reference to the
                                           Company's Form 8-K report filed
                                           March 14, 1997)

                                   (B)     Amendment No. 2 to Stockholders'
                                           Agreement dated December 4, 1997
                                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                           6.2 to Schedule 13D/A filed by
                                           Security Capital U.S. Realty on
                                           December 11, 1997)

- --------------------------
~           Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed
            pursuant to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).
*           Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
            Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
            (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference
++          Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement
            dated August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.






                                   (C)     Amendment No. 3 to Stockholders
                                           Agreement dated September 23, 1998
                                           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                           8.2 to Schedule 13D/A filed by
                                           Security Capital U.S. Realty on
                                           October 2, 1998)

                                   (D)     Letter Agreement dated June 14, 2000
                                           to Stockholders Agreement dated
                                           September 23, 1998 (incorporated by
                                           reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                                           Schedule 13D/A filed by Security
                                           Capital U.S. Realty on September 27,
                                           2000)

                  ++       (iii)   Registration Rights Agreement dated July 10,
                                   1996.

                  (k)      Stock Grant Plan adopted on January 31, 1994 to grant
                           stock to employees (incorporated by reference to the
                           Company's Form 10-Q filed May 12, 1994).

               ~@ (l)      Criteria for Restricted Stock Awards under 1993 Long
                           Term Omnibus Plan.

               ~@ (m)      Form of 1996 Stock Purchase Award Agreement.

                @ (n)      Form of 1996 Management Stock Pledge Agreement
                           relating to the Stock Purchase Award Agreement filed
                           as Exhibit 10(o).

               ~@ (o)      Form of Promissory Note relating to 1996 Stock
                           Purchase Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(o).

                  (p)      Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
                           Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P., as amended.

                  (q)      Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
                           of July 21, 2000 by and among Regency Centers, L.P.,
                           a Delaware limited partnership (the "Borrower"),
                           Regency Realty Corporation, a Florida corporation
                           (the "Parent"), each of the financial institutions
                           initially a signatory hereto together with their
                           assignees, (the "Lenders"), and Wells Fargo Bank,
                           National Association, as contractual representative
                           of the Lenders to the extent and in the manner
                           provided, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of
                           the Company's Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2000).

                 ~(r)      Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control
                           Agreement dated as of March, 2002 by and between
                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION, a Florida corporation
                           (the "Company") and Martin E. Stein, Jr. (the
                           "Employee") and Mary Lou Fiala (the "Employee")

                 ~(s)      Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control
                           Agreement dated as of March, 2002 by and between
                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION, a Florida corporation
                           (the "Company") and Bruce M. Johnson (the "Employee")

21.      Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.      Consent of KPMG LLP

- --------------------------
~        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
         to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).
++       Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated
         August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.
@        Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 1997 and
         incorporated herein by reference.




                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Date:    March 21, 2002                By:   /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Martin E Stein, Jr., Chairman of the
                                          Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 21, 2002                By:   /s/ Bruce M. Johnson
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Bruce M. Johnson, Managing Director
                                          and Principal Financial Officer

Date:    March 21, 2002                By:   /s/ J. Christian Leavitt
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          J. Christian Leavitt, Senior Vice
                                          President, Finance and Principal
                                          Accounting Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Martin E. Stein, Jr., Chairman of the
                                        Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 21, 2002
                                        /s/ Mary Lou Fiala
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Mary Lou Fiala, President, Chief
                                        Operating Officer and Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ Raymond L. Bank
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Raymond L. Bank, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ C. Ronald Blankenship
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        C. Ronald Blankenship, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ A. R. Carpenter
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        A. R. Carpenter, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ J. Dix Druce, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        J. Dix Druce, Jr., Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ John T. Kelley
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        John T. Kelley, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ Douglas S. Luke
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Douglas S. Luke, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ John C. Schweitzer
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        John C. Schweitzer, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ Thomas G. Wattles
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Thomas G. Wattles, Director

Date:    March 21, 2002                 /s/ Terry N. Worrell
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Terry N. Worrell, Director




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




Regency Centers Corporation

     Independent Auditors' Report                                            F-2
     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000            F-3
     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
         December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999                                   F-4
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
         ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999                              F-5
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999                                   F-6
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                              F-8


Financial Statement Schedule

     Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule            S-1

     Schedule III - Regency Centers Corporation Combined Real Estate and
         Accumulated Depreciation - December 31, 2001                        S-2



  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
  information required therein is shown in the consolidated financial statements
  or notes thereto.







                                      F-1



                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2001. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.



                                  /s/ KPMG LLP

                                    KPMG LLP





Jacksonville, Florida
January 31, 2002


                                       F-2



                        REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                        Consolidated Balance Sheets
                         December 31, 2001 and 2000





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-3



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
              For the Years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999






See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-4



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
              For the Years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-5



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999





                                      F-6



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
                                   (continued)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-7



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

1.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       (a)    Organization and Principles of Consolidation

              The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
              accounts of Regency Centers Corporation, its wholly owned
              qualified REIT subsidiaries, and its majority owned or controlled
              subsidiaries and partnerships (the "Company" or "Regency"). All
              significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
              eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The Company
              owns approximately 97% of the outstanding common units ("Units")
              of Regency Centers, L.P., ("RCLP"). Regency invests in real estate
              through its partnership interest in RCLP. All of the acquisition,
              development, operations and financing activity of Regency,
              including the issuance of Units or preferred units, are executed
              by RCLP. The equity interests of third parties held by RCLP and
              the majority owned or controlled partnerships are included in the
              consolidated financial statements as preferred or exchangeable
              operating partnership units ("Units") and limited partners'
              interest in consolidated partnerships. The Company is a qualified
              real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which began operations in
              1993 as Regency Realty Corporation. In February 2001, the Company
              changed its name to Regency Centers Corporation.

        (b)   Revenues

              The Company leases space to tenants under agreements with varying
              terms. Leases are accounted for as operating leases with minimum
              rent recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the
              lease regardless of when payments are due. Accrued rents are
              included in tenant receivables. Minimum rent has been adjusted to
              reflect the effects of recognizing rent on a straight-line basis.

              Substantially all of the lease agreements contain provisions that
              provide additional rents based on tenants' sales volume
              (contingent or percentage rent) or reimbursement of the tenants'
              share of real estate taxes and certain common area maintenance
              (CAM) costs. These additional rents are recognized when the
              tenants achieve the specified targets as defined in the lease
              agreements.

              Service operations revenue includes management fees, commission
              income, and development-related profits from the sales of recently
              developed real estate properties and land. The Company recorded
              gains from the sales of development properties and land of $28.1,
              million $25.5 million, and $14.4 million for the years ended
              December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. Service
              operations revenue does not include gains or losses from the sale
              of operating properties previously held for investment which are
              included in gain or loss on the sale of operating properties.

              The Company accounts for profit recognition on sales of real
              estate in accordance with FASB Statement No. 66, "Accounting for
              Sales of Real Estate." In summary, profits from sales will not be
              recognized by the Company unless a sale has been consummated; the
              buyer's initial and continuing investment is adequate to
              demonstrate a commitment to pay for the property; the Company has
              transferred to the buyer the usual risks and rewards of ownership;
              and the Company does not have substantial continuing involvement
              with the property.


                                       F-8


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


       (c)    Real Estate Investments

              Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost. All direct
              and indirect costs clearly associated with the acquisition,
              development and construction of real estate projects are
              capitalized as buildings and improvements.

              Maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the useful
              lives of the respective assets are reflected in operating and
              maintenance expense. The property cost includes the capitalization
              of interest expense incurred during construction based on average
              outstanding expenditures.

              Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over
              estimated useful lives of up to forty years for buildings and
              improvements, term of lease for tenant improvements, and three to
              seven years for furniture and equipment.

              Operating properties held for sale include properties that no
              longer meet the Company's long-term investment standards, such as
              expected growth in revenue or market dominance. Once identified
              and marketed for sale, these properties are segregated on the
              balance sheet as operating properties held for sale. The Company
              also develops shopping centers and stand-alone retail stores for
              resale. Once completed, these developments are also included in
              operating properties held for sale. Operating properties held for
              sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less estimated
              selling costs. Depreciation and amortization are suspended during
              the period held for sale. Results from operations from these
              properties resulted in net income of $10.5 million and $6.8
              million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000,
              respectively.

              The Company reviews its real estate investments for impairment
              whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
              carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company
              determines impairment based upon the difference between estimated
              sales value (less estimated costs to sell) and net book value.
              During 2001 and 2000, the Company recorded a provision for loss on
              operating properties held for sale of $1.6 million and $13.0
              million, respectively.

       (d)    Income Taxes

              The Company believes it qualifies and intends to continue to
              qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). As
              a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable income by all or
              a portion of its distributions to stockholders. As distributions
              have exceeded taxable income, no provision for federal income
              taxes has been made in the accompanying consolidated financial
              statements.

              Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends
              to stockholders, differ from net income reported for financial
              reporting purposes primarily because of different depreciable
              lives and cost bases of the shopping centers, and other timing
              differences.



                                       F-9






                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


       (d)    Income Taxes (continued)

              Regency Realty Group, Inc., ("RRG"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
              the Company is subject to federal and state income taxes and files
              separate tax returns. RRG had taxable income of $9.8 million, $2.3
              million, and $5.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
              2000 and 1999, respectively. RRG incurred federal and state income
              tax of $4.0 million, $0.9 million, and $2.0 million in 2001, 2000
              and 1999, respectively, which are included in other expenses.

              Effective January 1, 2001, the Company and RRG jointly elected for
              RRG to be treated as a Taxable REIT Subsidiary of the Company as
              such term is defined in Section 856(l) of the Code. Such election
              is not expected to impact the tax treatment of either the Company
              or RRG.

              At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the net book basis of real estate
              assets exceeds the tax basis by approximately $109 million and
              $115 million, respectively, primarily due to the difference
              between the cost basis of the assets acquired and their carryover
              basis recorded for tax purposes.

              The following summarizes the tax status of dividends paid during
              the years ended December 31 (unaudited):

                                                 2001        2000       1999
                                                 ----        ----       ----

                  Dividend per share         $   2.00        1.92       1.84
                  Ordinary income                  83%         82%        75%
                  Capital gain                      3%          5%         2%
                  Return of capital                13%         11%        23%
                  Unrecaptured Section
                    1250 gain                       1%          2%         -

       (e)    Deferred Costs

              Deferred costs include deferred leasing costs and deferred loan
              costs, net of amortization. Such costs are amortized over the
              periods through lease expiration or loan maturity. Deferred
              leasing costs consist of internal and external commissions
              associated with leasing the Company's shopping centers. Net
              deferred leasing costs were $22.2 million and $15.3 million at
              December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Deferred loan costs
              consists of initial direct and incremental costs associated with
              financing activities. Net deferred loan costs were $12.2 million
              and $6.0 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.



                                      F-10



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


       (f)    Earnings Per Share

              Basic net income per share of common stock is computed based upon
              the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
              the year. Diluted net income per share also includes common share
              equivalents for stock options, exchangeable operating partnership
              units, and preferred stock when dilutive. See note 7 for the
              calculation of earnings per share.

       (g)    Cash and Cash Equivalents

              Any instruments which have an original maturity of ninety days or
              less when purchased are considered cash equivalents.

       (h)    Estimates

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
              accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
              America requires the Company's management to make estimates and
              assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
              liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities,
              at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
              of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
              results could differ from those estimates.

       (i)    Stock Option Plan

              The Company applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting
              for Stock Based Compensation", which allows companies a choice in
              the method of accounting for stock options. Entities may recognize
              as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all
              stock-based awards on the date of grant or continue to apply the
              provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income
              and pro forma earnings per share disclosures for employee stock
              option grants made as if the fair-value-based method defined in
              SFAS No. 123 had been applied. APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for
              Stock Issued to Employees" and related interpretations state that
              compensation expense would be recorded on the date of grant only
              if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the
              exercise price. The Company has elected to continue to apply the
              provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro forma
              disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123.

       (j)    Reclassifications

              Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2000 and 1999
              amounts to conform to classifications adopted in 2001.


                                      F-11




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


2.      Acquisitions of Shopping Centers

       During 2001, the Company acquired three grocery-anchored shopping centers
       for $72.8 million representing 435,720 SF of gross leasable area.

       On August 3, 2000, the Company acquired the non-owned portion of two
       properties in one joint venture for $2.5 million in cash. The net assets
       of the joint venture were and continue to be consolidated by the Company.
       Prior to acquiring the non-owned portion, the joint venture partner's
       interest was reflected as limited partners' interest in consolidated
       partnerships in the Company's financial statements.

       The 2001 and 2000 acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and as
       such the results of their operations are included in the consolidated
       financial statements from the date of the acquisition. None of the
       acquisitions were significant to the operations of the Company in the
       year in which they were acquired or the year preceding the acquisition.

       During 2000, the Company paid contingent consideration of $5.0 million
       related to the acquisition of 43 shopping centers and joint ventures
       acquired during 1998. No additional contingent consideration is due
       related to any acquisitions of the Company.




                                      F-12




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


3.     Segments

       The Company was formed, and currently operates, for the purpose of 1)
       operating and developing Company-owned retail shopping centers (Retail
       segment), and 2) providing services including management fees and
       commissions earned from third parties, and development related profits
       and fees earned from the sales of shopping centers, outparcels and
       build-to-suit properties to third parties (Service operations segment).
       The Company's reportable segments offer different products or services
       and are managed separately because each requires different strategies and
       management expertise. There are no inter-segment sales or transfers.

       The Company assesses and measures operating results starting with net
       operating income for the Retail segment and revenues for the Service
       operations segment and converts such amounts into a performance measure
       referred to as Funds From Operations ("FFO"). The operating results for
       the individual retail shopping centers have been aggregated since all of
       the Company's shopping centers exhibit highly similar economic
       characteristics as neighborhood shopping centers, and offer similar
       degrees of risk and opportunities for growth. FFO as defined by the
       National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts consists of net
       income (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting
       principles) excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring and sales
       of income- producing property held for investment, plus depreciation and
       amortization of real estate, and adjustments for unconsolidated
       investments in real estate partnerships and joint ventures. The Company
       further adjusts FFO by distributions made to holders of Units and
       preferred stock that results in a diluted FFO amount. The Company
       considers diluted FFO to be the industry standard for reporting the
       operations of REITs. Adjustments for investments in real estate
       partnerships are calculated to reflect diluted FFO on the same basis.
       While management believes that diluted FFO is the most relevant and
       widely used measure of the Company's performance, such amount does not
       represent cash flow from operations as defined by accounting principles
       generally accepted in the United States of America, should not be
       considered an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's
       operating performance, and is not indicative of cash available to fund
       all cash flow needs. Additionally, the Company's calculation of diluted
       FFO, as provided below, may not be comparable to similarly titled
       measures of other REITs.

       The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
       in note 1. The revenues, diluted FFO, and assets for each of the
       reportable segments are summarized as follows for the years ended
       December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999. Assets not attributable to a
       particular segment consist primarily of cash and deferred costs.



                                      F-13




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

3.     Segments (continued)




                                      F-14



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

4.     Investments in Real Estate Partnerships

       The Company accounts for all investments in which it owns 50% or less and
       does not have controlling financial interest using the equity method. The
       Company's combined investment in these partnerships was $75.2 million and
       $85.2 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net income is
       allocated to the Company in accordance with the respective partnership
       agreements.

       The Company has a 20% equity interest in Columbia Regency Retail
       Partners, LLC ("Columbia"), a joint venture with Columbia PERFCO
       Partners, L.P. ("PERFCO") that was formed for the purpose of investing in
       retail shopping centers. During 2001, Columbia acquired two shopping
       centers from the Company for $32.3 million, acquired two shopping centers
       from unaffiliated sellers for $42.0 million, and acquired three shopping
       centers from PERFCO for $73.4 million. During 2001 and 2000, the Company
       recognized gains on the sale of shopping centers to Columbia of $1.0
       million and $3.7 million, respectively, which represents gain recognition
       on only that portion of Columbia not owned by the Company, and received
       net proceeds of $24.9 million and $40.5 million, respectively. The gains
       are included in service operations revenue as development property gains.

       The Company has a 25% equity interest in Macquarie CountryWide-Regency,
       LLC, ("MCWR") a joint venture with an affiliate of Macquarie CountryWide
       Trust of Australia, a Sydney, Australia-based property trust focused on
       investing in grocery-anchored shopping centers. During 2001, MCWR
       acquired five shopping centers from the Company for $36.7 million. During
       2001, the Company recognized gains on the sale of shopping centers to
       MCWR of $1.8 million, which represents gain recognition on only that
       portion of MCWR not owned by the Company, and received net proceeds of
       $27.8 million. The Company recognized gains of $1.3 million from the sale
       of development properties which are included in service operations
       revenue as development property gains. The Company also recognized gains
       of $0.5 million from the sale of operating properties previously held for
       investment which are included in gains on sale of operating properties.

       With the exception of Columbia and MCWR, both of which intend to continue
       expanding their investment in shopping centers, the investments in real
       estate partnerships represent single asset entities formed for the
       purpose of developing or owning a retail shopping center.

       The Company's investments in real estate partnerships as of December 31
       2001 and 2000 consist of the following (in thousands):




                                      F-15



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

4.     Investments in Real Estate Partnerships (continued)

       Summarized financial information for the unconsolidated investments on a
       combined basis, is as follows (in thousands):



       The revenues and expenses are summarized as follows for the years ended
       December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:



       Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had mortgage loans payable
       of $67.5 million at December 31, 2001 and the Company's proportionate
       share of these loans was $14.7 million. $62.5 million of the mortgage
       loans payable are non-recourse and contain no other provisions that would
       result in a contingent liability to the Company. The Company is the
       guarantor of a $5.0 million mortgage loan for Regency Ocean East
       Partnership, L.P.

5.     Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit

       The Company's outstanding debt at December 31, 2001 and 2000 consists of
the following (in thousands):





                                      F-16




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

5.     Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit (continued)

       On April 30, 2001, the Company modified the terms of its line of credit
       (the "Line") by reducing the commitment to $600 million, reducing the
       interest rate spread from 1.0% to .85% and extending the maturity date to
       April 2004. Interest rates paid on the Line at December 31, 2001 and 2000
       were based on LIBOR plus .85% and 1.0% or 2.913% and 7.875%,
       respectively. The spread that the Company pays on the Line is dependent
       upon maintaining specific investment grade ratings. The Company is
       required to comply and is in compliance with certain financial and other
       covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing. The Line is
       used primarily to finance the acquisition and development of real estate,
       but is also available for general working capital purposes.

       Subsequent to December 31, 2001, the Company paid down the Line using the
       net proceeds of an unsecured debt offering for $250 million completed on
       January 15, 2002. The notes have a fixed interest rate of 6.75%, were
       priced at 99.850%, are due on January 15, 2012 and are guaranteed by the
       Company.

       On December 12, 2001, the Company, through RCLP, completed a $20 million
       unsecured debt offering with an interest rate of 7.25%. The notes were
       priced at 99.375%, are due on December 12, 2011 and are guaranteed by the
       Company. On January 22, 2001, the Company, through RCLP, completed a $220
       million unsecured debt offering with an interest rate of 7.95%. The notes
       were priced at 99.867%, are due on January 15, 2011 and are guaranteed by
       the Company. The net proceeds of the offerings were used to reduce the
       balance of the Line.

       On December 15, 2000, the Company, through RCLP, completed a $10 million
       unsecured private debt offering with an interest rate of 8.0%. The notes
       were priced at 99.375%, are due on December 15, 2010 and are guaranteed
       by the Company. On August 29, 2000, the Company, through RCLP, completed
       a $150 million unsecured debt offering with an interest rate of 8.45%.
       The notes were priced at 99.819%, are due on September 1, 2010 and are
       guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offerings were used to
       reduce the balance of the Line.

       Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, and may be
       prepaid, but could be subject to a yield-maintenance premium. Mortgage
       loans are generally due in monthly installments of interest and principal
       and mature over various terms through 2019. Variable interest rates on
       mortgage loans are currently based on LIBOR plus a spread in a range of
       125 basis points to 175 basis points. Fixed interest rates on mortgage
       loans range from 6.82% to 9.5%.



                                      F-17




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


5.     Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit (continued)

       As of December 31, 2001, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable
       and the Line were as follows (in thousands):



       The fair value of the Company's notes payable and Line are estimated
       based on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same
       remaining maturities. Variable rate notes payable and the Line are
       considered to be at fair value, since the interest rates on such
       instruments reprice based on current market conditions. Fixed rate loans
       assumed in connection with real estate acquisitions are recorded in the
       accompanying financial statements at fair value. Based on the borrowing
       rates currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms and
       average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt is $1.43 billion.




                                      F-18



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

6.     Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest

       The Company, through RCLP, has issued Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
       Units ("Preferred Units") in various amounts since 1998. The issues were
       sold primarily to institutional investors in private placements for
       $100.00 per unit. The Preferred Units, which may be called by the
       Partnership at par after certain dates, have no stated maturity or
       mandatory redemption, and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at fixed
       rates. At any time after 10 years from the date of issuance, the
       Preferred Units may be exchanged for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
       Stock ("Preferred Stock") at an exchange rate of one share for one unit.
       The Preferred Units and the related Preferred Stock are not convertible
       into common stock of the Company. The net proceeds of these offerings
       were used to reduce the Line. At December 31, 2001 and 2000 the face
       value of total preferred units issued was $384 million with an average
       fixed distribution rate of 8.72%.

       Terms and conditions of the Preferred Units are summarized as follows:




       During 2000, the remaining Series 1 preferred stock was converted into
       537,107 shares of Series 2 preferred stock. Series 2 preferred stock is
       convertible into common stock on a one-for-one basis. The Series 2
       preferred shares are entitled to quarterly dividends in an amount equal
       to the common dividend and are cumulative. The Company may redeem the
       preferred stock any time after October 20, 2010 at a price of $20.83 per
       share, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends.

       During 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of
       approximately $65 million of the Company's outstanding shares through
       periodic open market transactions or privately negotiated transactions.
       At March 31, 2000, the Company had completed the program by purchasing
       3.25 million shares.

       On June 11, 1996, the Company entered into a Stockholders Agreement with
       a subsidiary of Security Capital Group Incorporated ("SCG") granting it
       certain rights such as purchasing common stock, nominating
       representatives to the Company's Board of Directors, and subjecting SCG
       to certain restrictions including voting and ownership restrictions. On
       December 14, 2001, SCG entered into a definitive agreement with GE
       Capital whereby GE Capital will acquire all of the outstanding shares of
       SCG.



                                      F-19




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001



7.     Earnings Per Share

       The following summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted earnings
       per share for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 (in
       thousands except per share data):



         The Series 1 and Series 2 preferred stock are not included in the above
         calculation because their effects are anti-dilutive.



                                      F-20




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans

       The Company has a Long-Term Omnibus Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to which
       the Board of Directors may grant stock and stock options to officers,
       directors and other key employees. The Plan provides for the issuance of
       up to 12% of the Company's common shares outstanding not to exceed 8.5
       million shares. Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to
       the stock's fair market value at the date of grant. All stock options
       granted have ten year terms, and contain vesting terms of one to five
       years from the date of grant.

       At December 31, 2001, there were approximately 1.6 million shares
       available for grant under the Plan. The per share weighted-average fair
       value of stock options granted during 2001 and 2000 was $2.32 and $2.18
       on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with
       the following weighted-average assumptions: 2001 - expected dividend
       yield 7.3%, risk-free interest rate of 5.2%, expected volatility 20%, and
       an expected life of 6.0 years; 2000 - expected dividend yield 8.1%,
       risk-free interest rate of 6.7%, expected volatility 20%, and an expected
       life of 6.0 years. The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting
       for its Plan and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized
       for its stock options in the consolidated financial statements.

       Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at
       the grant date for its stock options under SFAS No. 123, the Company's
       net income for common stockholders would have been reduced to the pro
       forma amounts indicated below (in thousands except per share data):







                                      F-21




                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans (continued)

       Stock option activity during the periods indicated is as follows:

                                                                     Weighted
                                               Number of             Average
                                                 Shares           Exercise Price
                                            -----------------   ----------------

Outstanding, December 31, 1998                1,708,577         $     24.71
                                            ------------        ----------------

  Granted                                       860,767               20.70
  Pacific merger                              1,251,719               24.24
  Forfeited                                    (87,395)               25.69
  Exercised                                     (4,000)               17.88
                                            ------------        ----------------

Outstanding, December 31, 1999                3,729,668               23.61
                                            ------------        ----------------

  Granted                                        52,924               21.59
  Forfeited                                   (170,798)               25.52
  Exercised                                    (21,017)               21.69
                                            ------------        ----------------

Outstanding, December 31, 2000                3,590,777               23.50
                                            ------------        ----------------

  Granted                                       591,614               25.01
  Forfeited                                    (79,009)               24.11
  Exercised                                   (420,420)               21.62
                                            ------------        ----------------

Outstanding, December 31, 2001                3,682,962         $     23.94
                                            ============        ================


       The following table presents information regarding all options
outstanding at December 31, 2001:

                      Weighted
                      Average                                       Weighted
    Number of        Remaining                Range of              Average
     Options        Contractual               Exercise              Exercise
   Outstanding         Life                   Prices                 Price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   1,751,862           7.13             $   16.75 - 24.69          $   21.92
   1,931,100           6.01                 25.00 - 27.69              25.77
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3,682,962           6.54             $   16.75 - 27.69          $   23.94
================================================================================



                                      F-22



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans (continued)

       The following table presents information regarding options currently
       exercisable at December 31, 2001:

                                                               Weighted
       Number of                   Range of                    Average
        Options                    Exercise                    Exercise
      Exercisable                  Prices                       Price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       1,029,944             $   16.75 - 24.69              $   22.14
       1,564,115                 25.00 - 27.69                  25.67
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       2,594,059             $   16.75 - 27.69              $   24.27
================================================================================

       Also as part of the Plan, officers and other key employees have received
       loans to purchase stock with market rates of interest, have been granted
       restricted stock, and have been granted dividend equivalents. During
       2001, 2000, and 1999, the Company charged $6.0 million, $3.4 million, and
       $1.0 million, respectively, to income on the consolidated statements of
       operations related to the Plan.

9.     Operating Leases

       The Company's properties are leased to tenants under operating leases
       with expiration dates extending to the year 2037. Future minimum rents
       under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2001, excluding
       tenant reimbursements of operating expenses and excluding additional
       contingent rentals based on tenants' sales volume are as follows (in
       thousands):


                       Year Ending December 31,                  Amount
                 ----------------------------------------------------------

                                 2002                    $       266,670
                                 2003                            260,209
                                 2004                            230,431
                                 2005                            200,167
                                 2006                            162,290
                              Thereafter                         112,409
                                                            -------------

                                Total                    $     1,232,176
                                                            =============

       The shopping centers' tenant base includes primarily national and
       regional supermarkets, drug stores, discount department stores and other
       retailers and, consequently, the credit risk is concentrated in the
       retail industry. There were no tenants that individually represented 10%
       or more of the Company's combined minimum rent.



                                      F-23



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001


10.    Contingencies

       The Company, like others in the commercial real estate industry, is
       subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. The operation of
       dry cleaning plants at the Company's shopping centers is the principal
       environmental concern. The Company believes that the tenants who operate
       these plants do so in accordance with current laws and regulations and
       has established procedures to monitor their operations. Additionally, the
       Company uses all legal means to cause tenants to remove dry cleaning
       plants from its shopping centers. Where available, the Company has
       applied and been accepted into state- sponsored environmental programs.
       The Company has a blanket environmental insurance policy that covers it
       against third party liabilities and remediation costs on shopping centers
       that currently have no known environmental contamination. The Company has
       also placed environmental insurance on specific properties with known
       contamination in order to mitigate its environmental risk. Management
       believes that the ultimate disposition of currently known environmental
       matters will not have a material effect on the financial position,
       liquidity, or operations of the Company. At December 31, 2001 and 2000,
       the Company had recorded environmental liabilities of $1.8 million and
       $2.1 million, respectively.

  11.  Market and Dividend Information (Unaudited)

       The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
       ("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". The Company currently has approximately
       4,000 shareholders. The following table sets forth the high and low
       prices and the cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock by
       quarter for 2001 and 2000:






                                      F-24



                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2001

12.    Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

       Presented below is a summary of the consolidated quarterly financial data
       for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 (amounts in thousands,
       except per share data):






                                            F-25



                          Independent Auditors' Report
                         On Financial Statement Schedule


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation


Under date of January 31, 2002, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Regency Centers Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and
2000, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2001, as contained in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
2001. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule as listed
in the accompanying index on page F-1 of the annual report on Form 10-K for the
year 2001. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.





                                    /s/ KPMG

                                    KPMG LLP




Jacksonville, Florida
January 31, 2002






                                       S-1


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 2001


                                      S-4




                                      S-7

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 2001



Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of operation is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

    Buildings and improvements                        up to 40 years

    The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $2.6
    billion at December 31, 2001.



The changes in total real estate assets for the period ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999:





The changes in accumulated depreciation for the period ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999:






                                      S-8


