
10-K
10-K FOR REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to

                         Commission File Number 1-12298

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          FLORIDA                                               59-3191743
 (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
  incorporation or organization)                           identification No.)

  121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200                      (904) 356-7000
  Jacksonville, Florida    32202                    (Registrant's telephone No.)
  (Address of principal 
   executive offices)    (zip code)

                 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
                                  of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value
                                (Title of Class)

                             New York Stock Exchange
                     (Name of exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. YES (X) NO ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and will not be contained,  to the 
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.    (X)

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $463,468,086 based on the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on March 10, 1999.
The approximate number of shares of Registrant's voting common stock outstanding
was 57,831,620 as of March 10, 1999.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 1999 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.






                                

                                                                       Form 10-K
Item No.                                                             Report Page
- --------                                                             -----------

                                     PART I

1.  Business...................................................................1

2.  Properties.................................................................5

3.  Legal Proceedings.........................................................12

4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.......................12

                                     PART II

5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder 
    Matters...................................................................12

6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data......................................14

7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
    Results of Operations.....................................................15

7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk................22

8.  Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..................22

9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
    Financial Disclosure......................................................22

                                    PART III

10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant........................23

11. Executive Compensation....................................................23

12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management............24

13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions............................24

                                     PART IV

14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.........24






                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

Regency Realty Corporation ("Regency" or "Company") acquires, owns, develops and
manages neighborhood shopping centers in targeted infill markets. As of December
31, 1998, Regency owned, directly or indirectly, 129 properties in the eastern
half of the United States, containing approximately 14.7 million square feet of
gross leasable area ("GLA").

As of December 31, 1998, Regency had an investment in real estate of
approximately $1.3 billion and approximately 58% of Regency's GLA was located in
Georgia and Florida. Regency's shopping centers (excluding centers under
development) were approximately 93% leased as of December 31, 1998.

On February 26, 1999, Regency's shareholders approved the merger of Pacific
Retail Trust ("Pacific") into the Company in a stock for stock transaction (0.48
Regency share for 1 Pacific share). At December 31, 1998, Pacific owned 71
retail shopping centers that are operating or under construction containing 8.4
million SF of GLA. The total cost to acquire Pacific is expected to be $1.157
billion based on the value of Regency shares issued, the assumption of $379
million of outstanding debt and other liabilities, and estimated transaction
costs. Pacific's shopping centers are located primarily in California and Texas.

The Company, a Florida corporation organized in 1993, commenced operations as a
real estate investment trust (REIT) in 1993 with the completion of its initial
public offering, and was the successor to the real estate business of The
Regency Group, Inc. which had operated since 1963.

Regency formed Regency Centers, L.P. (RCLP), a limited partnership and a public
registrant, in 1996, and consolidated substantially all of its retail shopping
centers into RCLP during 1998. RCLP is now the primary entity through which
Regency owns its properties and through which Regency intends to expand its
ownership and operation of retail shopping centers. At December 31, 1998,
Regency owned approximately 96% of the outstanding operating partnership units
of RCLP. Regency, the general partner of RCLP, fully controls the operating and
investing decisions and activities of RCLP, and accordingly, the following
discussion of Regency's business also includes the business of RCLP.

Operating and Investment Philosophy

Regency's key operating and investment objective is to create long-term
shareholder value by:

     o     growing its high quality real estate portfolio of grocery-anchored
           neighborhood shopping centers in attractive infill markets,

     o     maximizing the value of the portfolio through its "Retail
           Operating System," developed in conjunction with Security Capital
           Holdings, S.A. ("SC-USREALTY"), which incorporates research based
           investment strategies, value-added leasing and management systems,
           and customer-driven development programs, and

     o     using conservative financial management and Regency's substantial
           capital base to access the most cost effective capital to fund
           Regency's growth.

Management believes that the key to achieving its objective is its single focus
on, and growing critical mass of, quality grocery-anchored neighborhood shopping
centers. In the opinion of management, Regency's premier platform of shopping
centers in targeted markets, its proprietary research capabilities, its value
enhancing Retail Operating System, its cohesive and experienced management team
and its access to competitively priced capital enable it to maintain a
competitive advantage over other operators.

Regency believes that ownership of the approximately 30,000 shopping centers
throughout the United States is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by
REITs, and that many centers are held by unsophisticated and undercapitalized
owners. Regency has identified approximately 1,000 centers in its target markets
as potential acquisition opportunities, of which less than 10% are owned by
REITs. As a result, Regency believes that an opportunity exists for it to be a
consolidating force in the industry. In addition, Regency believes that through
proprietary demographic research and targeting, its portfolio and tenant mix can
be customized for and marketed to national and regional retailers, thereby
producing greater sales and a value-added shopping environment for both retailer
and shopper.

Regency's shopping center properties feature some of the most attractive
characteristics in the industry:

     o        an average age of 8 years,

     o        an average remaining grocery-anchor lease term of 14 years, and

     o        an average  grocery-anchor  size of 49,000 square feet (43% of the
            square footage of the  grocery-anchored centers on average).

Grocery-Anchored Infill Strategy

Regency focuses its investment strategy on grocery-anchored infill shopping
centers. Infill locations are situated in densely populated residential
communities where there are significant barriers to entry, such as zoning
restrictions, growth management laws or limited availability of sites for
development or expansions. Regency is focused on building a platform of
grocery-anchored neighborhood shopping centers because grocery stores provide
convenience shopping for daily necessities, generate foot traffic for adjacent
"side shop" tenants and should be better able to withstand adverse economic
conditions. By developing close relationships with the leading supermarket
chains, Regency believes it can attract the best "side shop" merchants and
enhance revenue potential.

Research Driven Market Selection

Regency has identified 21 markets in the eastern half of the United States as
target markets. These markets were selected because, in general, they offer
greater growth in population, household income and employment than the national
averages. In addition, Regency believes that it can achieve "critical mass" in
these markets (defined as owning or managing 4 to 5 shopping centers) and that
it can generate sustainable competitive advantages, through long-term leases to
the predominant grocery-anchor and other barriers to entry from competition.
Within these markets, Regency's research staff further defines and selects
submarkets and trade areas based on additional analysis of the above data.
Regency then identifies target properties and their owners (including
development opportunities) within these submarkets and trade areas based on
3-mile radius demographic data and ranks potential properties for purchase. The
properties currently owned by Regency are in submarkets with an average 3-mile
population of 69,000, average household income of $62,000 and projected 5-year
population growth of 12%.

Retail Operating System

Regency's  Retail  Operating  System drives its value-added  operating strategy.
Its Retail  Operating  System is characterized by:

     o        proactive leasing and management;

     o        value enhancing remerchandising initiatives;

     o        Regency's "preferred customer initiative"; and

     o        a customer-driven development and redevelopment program.

a)       Proactive leasing and management

Regency's integrated approach to property management strengthens its leasing and
management efforts. Property managers are an integral component of the
acquisition and integration teams. Thorough, candid tenant interviews by
property managers during acquisition due diligence allow Regency to quickly
assess both problem areas as well as opportunities for revenue enhancement prior
to closing. Property managers are responsible not only for the general
operations of their centers, but also for coordinating leasing efforts, thereby
aligning their interests with Regency's. In addition, Regency's information
systems allow managers to spot future lease expirations and to proactively
market and remerchandise spaces several years in advance of such expirations.

b)       Value enhancing remerchandising initiatives

Regency believes that certain shopping centers under serve their customers,
reducing foot traffic and negatively affecting the tenants located in the
shopping center. In response, Regency is initiating a remerchandising program
directed at obtaining the optimum mix of tenants offering goods, personal
services and entertainment and dining options in each of its shopping centers.
By re-tenanting shopping centers with tenants that more effectively service the
community, Regency expects to increase sales, and therefore the value of its
shopping centers.

c)       Preferred customer initiative

Regency has established a preferred customer initiative with dedicated personnel
whose goal is to establish new or strengthen existing strategic relationships
with successful retailers at the national, regional and local levels. Regency
achieves this goal by establishing corporate relationships, negotiating standard
lease forms and working with the preferred customers to match expansion plans
with future availability in Regency's shopping centers. Regency monitors retail
trends and the operating performance of these preferred customers. Management
expects the benefits of the preferred customer initiative to improve the
merchandising and performance of the shopping centers, establish brand
recognition among leading operators, reduce turnover of tenants and reduce
vacancies. Regency currently has identified and is developing relationships with
45 preferred customers, including Radio Shack, GNC, Hallmark Cards, Mailboxes,
Etc. and Starbucks Coffee, and continues to target additional tenants with which
to establish preferred customer relationships.

d)       Customer-driven development and redevelopment program

Regency conducts its development and redevelopment program in close cooperation
with its major customers, including Kroger, Publix and Eckerd. Regency uses its
development capabilities to service its customer's growth needs by building or
re-developing modern properties with state of the art supermarket formats that
generate higher returns for Regency under new long-term leases. In 1998, Regency
began development on 21 retail projects, including new developments,
redevelopments and build-to-suits and upon completion, Regency will have
invested $152 million in these projects. During 1997, Regency began development
on 16 retail projects, including new developments, redevelopments and
build-to-suits and upon completion, Regency will have invested $87 million in
these projects. Regency manages its development risk by obtaining signed anchor
leases prior to beginning construction.

Acquisition Track Record

Regency has grown its asset base significantly through acquisitions over the
last several years, acquiring properties totaling $384.3 million in 1998, $395.7
million in 1997 and $107.1 million in 1996. Through these acquisitions, Regency
has diversified geographically from its predominantly Florida-based portfolio
and established a presence in many of its target markets. Upon identifying an
acquisition target, Regency utilizes expertise from all of its functional areas,
including acquisitions, due diligence and property management, to determine the
appropriate purchase price and to develop a business plan for the center and
design an integration plan for the management of the center. Regency believes
that its established acquisition and integration procedures produce higher
returns on its portfolio, reduce risk and position Regency to capitalize on
consolidation in the shopping center industry.

Capital Strategy

Regency intends to maintain a conservative capital structure designed to enhance
access to capital on favorable terms, to allow growth through development and
acquisition and to promote future earnings growth, however, neither Regency
Realty Corporation's nor Regency Centers, L.P.'s organizational documents limit
the amount of debt that may be incurred. Limitations have been established
within the covenants of certain loan agreements related to the Partnership's
line of credit and medium term notes.

As of December 31, 1998, Regency had secured and unsecured debt of $309.2
million and $238.9 million, respectively. Substantially all of Regency's debt is
cross-defaulted, but not cross-collateralized. Pursuant to Regency's $300
million unsecured line of credit (increased to $635 million with the merger of
Pacific Retail Trust), Regency is required to comply, and is complying with
certain financial and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured
financing. These financial covenants include (1) maintenance of minimum net
worth, (2) ratio of total liabilities to gross asset value, (3) ratio of secured
indebtedness to gross asset value, (4) ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, (5)
ratio of EBITDA to debt service and reserve for replacements, and (6) ratio of
unencumbered net operating income to interest expense on unsecured indebtedness.
In addition, Regency may not enter into a negative pledge agreement with another
lender and may not incur other floating rate debt in excess of 25% of gross
asset value without interest rate protection. The line is used primarily to
finance the acquisition and development of real estate, but is also available
for general working capital purposes.

Since Regency's initial public offering in 1993, Regency has financed its growth
in part through a series of public and private offerings of Regency equity and
RCLP units totaling, as of December 31, 1998, approximately $677 million,
including the utilization by RCLP of its units as consideration for
acquisitions. RCLP units (with the exception of Series A preferred units) issued
and owned by limited partners are convertible into Regency common stock on a one
for one basis, and receive quarterly distributions equal to the dividends paid
on each Regency common share.

Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Regency Common Stock

The Company is subject to certain business risks arising in connection with
owning real estate which include, among others:

     o        the  bankruptcy or insolvency  of, or a downturn in the business 
              of, any of its major tenants could reduce cash flow,

     o        the possibility that such tenants will not renew their leases as
              they expire or renew at lower rental rates could reduce cash flow,

     o        vacated anchor space will affect the entire shopping center
              because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer
             drawing power,

     o        poor market conditions could create an over supply of space or a
              reduction in demand for real estate in markets where the Company
              owns shopping centers,

     o        the Company's rapid growth could place strains on its resources,

     o        risks relating to leverage, including uncertainty that the Company
              will be able to refinance its indebtedness, and the risk of higher
              interest rates,

     o        unsuccessful development activities could reduce cash flow,

     o        the Company's inability to satisfy its cash requirements for
              operations and the possibility that the Company may be required to
              borrow funds to meet distribution requirements in order to
              maintain its qualification as a REIT,

     o        potential liability for unknown or future environmental matters
              and costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act,

     o        the risk of uninsured losses, and

     o        unfavorable economic conditions could also result in the inability
              of tenants in certain retail sectors to meet their lease
              obligations and otherwise could adversely affect the Company's
              ability to attract and retain desirable tenants.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an
owner or manager of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on such property. These
laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was
responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of
required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the
value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of
such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may
adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent the property or borrow
using the property as collateral. Regency has approximately 31 properties that
will require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental
remediation. These remediations are not expected to have a material financial
effect on the Company due to financial statement reserves and various
state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost for remediation
to the state.

Competition

The Company believes the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented,
with less than 10% owned by REITs. Regency faces competition from other REITs in
the acquisition, ownership and leasing of shopping centers as well as from
numerous small owners. Regency competes for the development of shopping centers
with other REITs engaged in development activities as well as with local,
regional and national real estate developers. Regency develops properties by
applying its proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing
opportunities and by pre-leasing an average of 85% of a center before beginning
construction. Regency competes for the acquisition of properties through
proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers
to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. Regency
seeks to maximize rents per square foot by establishing relationships with
supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets and leasing
non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. There can
be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not
utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants
that Regency targets or that such entities will successfully control these
markets and tenants to the exclusion of Regency.

Changes in Policies

The Company's Board of Directors determines policies with respect to certain
activities, including its debt capitalization, growth, distributions, REIT
status, and investment and operating strategies. The Board of Directors has no
present intention to amend or revise these policies. However, the Board of
Directors may do so at any time without a vote of the Company's stockholders.

Employees

The Company's headquarters are located in Jacksonville, Florida. The Company
presently maintains offices in which it conducts management and leasing
activities located in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Ohio, and Missouri. As
of December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately 240 employees and believes
that relations with its employees are good.

Item 2. Properties




The following table summarizes the largest tenants occupying the Company's
shopping centers based upon a percentage of total annualized base rent exceeding
 .5% at December 31, 1998:



The Company's leases have lease terms generally ranging from three to five years
for tenant space under 5,000 square feet. Leases greater than 10,000 square feet
generally have lease terms in excess of five years, mostly comprised of anchor
tenants. Many of the anchor leases contain provisions allowing the tenant the
option of extending the term of the lease at expiration. The Company's leases
provide for the monthly payment in advance of fixed minimum rentals, additional
rents calculated as a percentage of the tenant's sales, the tenant's pro rata
share of real estate taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance expenses, and
reimbursement for utility costs if not directly metered. The following table
sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for the next ten years, assuming that
no tenants exercise renewal options:

                                                        Future
                                       Percent of       Minimum       Percent of
           Lease                         Total           Rent           Total
         Expiration       Expiring      Company         Expiring        Minimum
           Year             GLA           GLA            Leases         Rent (2)
           ----             ---           ---            ------         --------

           (1)              88,448        0.7%           $941,247         0.8%
           1999             933,156       7.5%        $10,973,054         9.0%
           2000             892,964       7.2%        $10,484,173         8.6%
           2001           1,163,072       9.3%        $13,710,368        11.3%
           2002           1,212,519       9.7%        $13,155,318        10.8%
           2003             992,177       8.0%        $10,360,431         8.5%
           2004             492,469       4.0%         $4,018,968         3.3%
           2005             254,877       2.0%         $2,644,771         2.2%
           2006             598,066       4.8%         $4,993,560         4.1%
           2007             435,154       3.5%         $3,853,728         3.2%
           2008             759,825       5.9%         $5,311,987         4.3%
                        --------------------------------------------------------
       10 Yr Total        7,822,727      60.7%         80,447,605        65.5%
                        --------------------------------------------------------

   (1) leased currently under month to month rent or in process of renewal 
   (2) total minimum rent includes current minimum rent and future contractual 
       rent steps for all properties, but excludes additional rent such as 
       percentage rent, common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance
       reimbursements.

See the property table below and also see Item 7, Management's Discussion and
Analysis for further information about the Company's properties.







- -------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Or latest renovation
(2)  Includes development properties.  If development properties are excluded, 
     the total percentage leased would be 94.6% for Partnership shopping centers
     and 94.0% for Company shopping centers.
(3)  Company-owned property not owned by the the Partnership.
(4)  Tenant owns its own building.
(5)  Owned by a partnership with outside investors in which the Partnership
     (or the  Company  in the case of a  property  referred  to in note (3)
     above) or an affiliate is the general partner.
(6)  Property under development or redevelopment.
(7)  Owned by a joint venture in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% 
     interest.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is, from time to time, a party to legal proceedings which arise in
the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not currently involved in
any litigation nor, to management's knowledge, is any litigation threatened
against the Company, the outcome of which would, in management's judgement based
on information currently available, have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted for shareholder vote during the fourth quarter of
1998.

                                     PART II


Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder 
         Matters


The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
under the symbol "REG". The Company currently has approximately 3,500
shareholders. The following table sets forth the high and low prices and the
cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock by quarter for 1998 and
1997. All amounts are in thousands except per share data.



The following describes the registrant's sales of unregistered securities 
during the periods covered by this report, each sold in reliance on Rule 506 of 
the Securities Act.

During 1998, the Company acquired 32 shopping centers from various entities 
comprising the Midland Group ("Midland"). The Company's investment in the 
properties acquired from Midland is $236.6 million at December 31, 1998. As
part of the acquisition of Midland, the Company issued 425,982 Operating
Partnership Units ("Units") of Regency Centers, L.P. to the Midland principals.
Units are exchangeable into Regency common stock on a one for one basis. In
addition, during 1999 and 2000, the Company may pay contingent consideration of
up to an estimated $23 million, through the issuance of Units and the payment of
cash. The amount of such consideration, if issued, will depend on the
satisfaction of certain performance criteria relating to the assets acquired
from Midland. Transferors who received cash at the initial Midland closing will
receive contingent future consideration in cash rather than Units. The
acquisition of Midland is discussed further in note 2, Acquisitions of Shopping
Centers, of the notes to the 1998 consolidated financial statements.



On June 29, 1998, the Company through RCLP issued $80 million of 8.125%
Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Series A Preferred Units") to
Belair Capital Fund LLC in a private placement. The issuance involved the sale
of 1.6 million Series A Preferred Units for $50.00 per unit. The Series A
Preferred Units, which may be called by the Company at par on or after June 25,
2003, have no stated maturity or mandatory redemption, and pay a cumulative,
quarterly dividend at an annualized rate of 8.125%. At any time after June 25,
2008, the Series A Preferred Units may be exchanged for shares of 8.125% Series
A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company at an exchange rate of
one share of Series A Preferred Stock for one Series A Preferred Unit. The
Series A Preferred Units and Series A Preferred Stock are not convertible into
common stock of the Company.

In November 1998, the Company acquired Park Place shopping center in
exchange for 79,466 Units of Regency Centers, L.P. valued at $26 per Unit plus
the assumption of debt secured by Park Place.

The Company acquired 35 shopping centers during 1997 (the "1997 Acquisitions") 
for approximately $395.7 million. Included in the 1997 Acquisitions are 26 
shopping centers acquired from Branch Properties ("Branch") for $232.4 million. 
During 1998, the Company issued 721,997 additional Units and shares of common 
stock valued at $18.2 million to Branch as contingent consideration for the 
satisfaction of certain performance criteria of the properties acquired. The 
Company expects to issue the remaining contingent consideration, 298,064 Units, 
during 1999. In connection with the Units and shares of common stock issued to 
Branch in March 1998, SC-USREALTY acquired 435,777 shares at $22.125 per share 
in accordance with their rights to purchase common stock. The acquisition of 
Branch is discussed further in note 2, Acquisitions of Shopping Centers, of the 
notes to the 1998 consolidated financial statements.

The Company intends to pay regular quarterly distributions to its common
shareholders. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion
of the Board of Directors, and will depend upon cash generated by operating
activities, the Company's financial condition, capital requirements, annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future cash available
for distribution will be greater than earnings and profits due to non-cash
expenses, primarily depreciation and amortization, to be incurred by the
Company. Distributions by the Company to the extent of its current and
accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes will be taxable
to shareholders as ordinary dividend income. Distributions in excess of earnings
and profits generally will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Such
distributions have the effect of deferring taxation until the sale of a
shareholder's common stock. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT,
the Company must make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 95% of
its taxable income. Under certain circumstances, which management does not
expect to occur, the Company could be required to make distributions in excess
of cash available for distributions in order to meet such requirements. The
Company currently maintains the Regency Realty Corporation Dividend Reinvestment
and Stock Purchase Plan which enables its shareholders to automatically reinvest
distributions as well as make voluntary cash payments towards the purchase of
additional shares.

The Company declares quarterly cash dividends on the 2.5 million Class B common 
shares outstanding. At December 31, 1998 the Class B common was owned by a 
single shareholder. During 1998 a distribution of $.5378 per share was paid
quarterly. The 2.5 million Class B common shares are convertible into 2,975,468
common shares, subject to certain ownership limitations.

Under the loan agreement with the lenders of the Company's line of credit,
distributions may not exceed 95% of Funds from Operations ("FFO") based on the
immediately preceding four quarters. FFO is defined in accordance with the
NAREIT definition as described under Item 7., Management's Discussion and
Analysis. Also in the event of any monetary default, the Company will not make
distributions to shareholders.





Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data
(in thousands, except per share data and number of properties)

The following table sets forth Selected Financial Data on a historical basis for
the five years ended December 31, 1998, for the Company. This information should
be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company (including
the related notes thereto) and Management's Discussion and Analysis of the
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, each included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K. This historical Selected Financial Data has been derived from the
audited financial statements.




Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
         Results of Operations


The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of Regency Realty 
Corporation ("Regency" or "Company") appearing elsewhere within.

Organization
- ------------

The Company is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT") which began
operations in 1993. The Company invests in real estate primarily through its
general partnership interest in Regency Centers, L.P., ("RCLP" or "Partnership")
an operating partnership in which the Company currently owns approximately 96%
of the outstanding common partnership units ("Units"). Of the 129 properties
included in the Company's portfolio at December 31, 1998, 109 properties were
owned either fee simple or through partnerships interests by RCLP. At December
31, 1998, the Company had an investment in real estate, at cost, of
approximately $1.3 billion of which $1.1 billion or 86% was owned by RCLP.

Shopping Center Business
- ------------------------

The Company's principal business is owning, operating and developing grocery 
anchored neighborhood infill shopping centers. Infill refers to shopping
centers within a targeted investment market offering sustainable competitive
advantages such as barriers to entry resulting from zoning restrictions, growth
management laws, or limited new competition from development or expansions. The
Company's properties summarized by state and in order by largest holdings
including their gross leasable areas (GLA) follows:



The Company is focused on building a platform of grocery anchored neighborhood
shopping centers because grocery stores provide convenience shopping of daily
necessities, foot traffic for adjacent local tenants, and should withstand
adverse economic conditions. The Company's current investment markets have
continued to offer strong stable economies, and accordingly, the Company expects
to realize growth in net income as a result of increasing occupancy in the
portfolio, increasing rental rates, development and acquisition of shopping
centers in targeted markets, and redevelopment of existing shopping centers. The
following table summarizes the four largest grocery tenants occupying the
Company's shopping centers at December 31, 1998:

   Grocery      Number of         % of         % of Annualized     Avg Remaining
   Anchor        Stores         Total GLA          Base Rent         Lease Term
   -------      ---------       ---------      ---------------     -------------

 Kroger            36             14.9%              13.8%              19 yrs
 Publix            33              9.8%               6.9%              13 yrs
 Winn-Dixie        16              5.1%               3.8%              13 yrs
 Harris Teeter      4              1.3%               1.7%              11 yrs


Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers
- -----------------------------------------------

During 1998, the Company acquired 31 shopping centers fee simple for
approximately $355.9 million and also invested $28.4 million in 12 joint
ventures ("JV Properties"), for a total investment of $384.3 million in 43
shopping centers ("1998 Acquisitions"). Included in the 1998 Acquisitions are 32
shopping centers acquired from various entities comprising the Midland Group
("Midland"). Of the 32 Midland centers, 31 are anchored by Kroger, and 12 are
owned through joint ventures in which the Company's ownership interest is 50% or
less. The Company's investment in the properties acquired from Midland is $236.6
million at December 31, 1998. The Company expects to acquire all of the
interests in two of the JV Properties for approximately $20.3 million during
1999 which will increase its total investment in the Midland properties to
$256.9 million. In addition, during 1999 and 2000, the Company may pay
contingent consideration of up to an estimated $23 million, through the issuance
of Partnership units and the payment of cash. The amount of such consideration,
if issued, will depend on the satisfaction of certain performance criteria
relating to the assets acquired from Midland. Transferors who received cash at
the initial Midland closing will receive contingent future consideration in cash
rather than units.

The Company acquired 35 shopping centers during 1997 (the "1997 Acquisitions") 
for approximately $395.7 million. Included in the 1997 Acquisitions are 26 
shopping centers acquired from Branch Properties ("Branch") for $232.4 million. 
During 1998, the Company issued 721,997 additional Units and shares of common 
stock valued at $18.2 million to Branch as contingent consideration for the 
satisfaction of certain performance criteria of the properties acquired. The 
Company expects to issue the remaining contingent consideration, 298,064 Units, 
during 1999.

Results from Operations
- -----------------------

Comparison of 1998 to 1997

Revenues increased $46.0 million or 47% to $143.3 million in 1998. The increase
was due primarily to the 1998 and 1997 Acquisitions providing increases in
revenues of $37.5 million during 1998. At December 31, 1998, the real estate
portfolio contained approximately 14.7 million SF and was 92.9% leased. Minimum
rent increased $33.3 million or 47%, and recoveries from tenants increased $7.5
million or 45%. On a same property basis (excluding the 1998 and 1997
Acquisitions, and the office portfolio sold during 1998) gross rental revenues
increased $3.4 million or 6.7%, primarily due to higher base rents. Revenues
from property management, leasing, brokerage, and development services (service
operation segment) provided on properties not owned by the Company were $11.9
million in 1998 compared to $8.4 million in 1997, the increase due primarily to
increased brokerage fees and increased activity in construction and development
for third parties. During 1998, the Company sold four office buildings and a
parcel of land for $30.7 million, and recognized a gain on the sale of $10.7
million. As a result of these transactions the Company's real estate portfolio
is comprised entirely of retail shopping centers. The proceeds from the sale
were used to reduce the balance of the line of credit.

Operating expenses increased $21.8 million or 44% to $71.0 million in 1998.
Combined operating and maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $7.9 million
or 35% during 1998 to $30.8 million. The increases are due to the 1998 and 1997
Acquisitions generating operating and maintenance expenses and real estate tax
increases of $9.4 million during 1998, partially offset by the sale of the
office buildings. On a same property basis, operating and maintenance expenses
and real estate taxes increased $100,000 or 1%. General and administrative
expenses increased 51% during 1998 to $15.1 million due to the hiring of new
employees and related office expenses necessary to manage the shopping centers
acquired during 1998 and 1997, as well as, the shopping centers the Company
began managing for third parties during 1998 and 1997. Depreciation and
amortization increased $8.7 million during 1998 or 54% primarily due to the 1998
and 1997 Acquisitions.

Interest expense increased to $28.8 million in 1998 from $19.7 million
in 1997 or 46% due to increased average outstanding loan balances related to the
financing of the 1998 and 1997 Acquisitions on the Line and the assumption of
debt. Weighted average interest rates increased 0.1% during 1998. See further
discussion under Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers and Liquidity
and Capital Resources.

Net income for common stockholders was $50.6 million in 1998 vs. $27.4
million in 1997, a $23.2 million or 85% increase for the reasons previously
described. Diluted earnings per share in 1998 was $1.75 vs. $1.23 in 1997 due to
the increase in net income combined with the dilutive impact from the increase
in weighted average common shares and equivalents of 7.2 million primarily due
to the acquisition of Branch and Midland, the issuance of shares to SC-USREALTY
during 1998 and 1997, and the public offering completed in July, 1997. (see
notes 2, 6 and 7, to the 1998 consolidated financial statements for related
discussions).


Comparison of 1997 to 1996

Revenues increased $50.4 million or 107% to $97.3 million in 1997. The increase
was due primarily to the 1997 Acquisitions and properties acquired in 1996 (the
"1996 Acquisitions") providing increases in revenues of $49.8 million during
1997. At December 31, 1997, the real estate portfolio contained approximately 10
million SF and was 92.8% leased. Minimum rent increased $35.4 million or 102%,
and recoveries from tenants increased $8.9 million or 115%. On a same property
basis (excluding the 1997 and 1996 Acquisitions) revenues increased $925,000 or
2%, primarily due to higher percentage rents and operating expense recoveries
from tenants. Revenues from property management, leasing, brokerage, and
development services provided on properties not owned by the Company were $8.4
million in 1997 compared to $3.4 million in 1996, the increase due to fees
earned from third party property management and leasing contracts acquired as
part of the acquisition of Branch.

Operating expenses increased $23.0 million or 88% to $49.2 million in 1997.
Combined operating and maintenance, and real estate taxes increased $10.8
million or 89% during 1997 to $22.9 million. The increases are due to the 1997
and 1996 Acquisitions generating operating and maintenance expenses, and real
estate tax increases of $10.6 million during 1997. On a same property basis,
operating and maintenance expenses and real estate taxes increased $226,000, or
2%. General and administrative expense increased 64.7% during 1997 to $10.0
million due to the hiring of new employees and related office expenses necessary
to manage the 52 shopping centers acquired during 1996 and 1997, as well as, the
44 shopping centers that the Company began managing for third parties during
1997. Depreciation and amortization increased $8.2 million during 1997 or 102%
primarily due to the 1997 and 1996 Acquisitions generating $7.7 million in
depreciation and amortization.

Interest expense increased to $19.7 million in 1997 from $11.5 million
in 1996 or 71% due primarily to increased average outstanding loan balances
related to the financing of the 1997 and 1996 Acquisitions on the Line and the
assumption of debt. Weighted average interest rates decreased 0.2% during 1997.
See further discussion under Acquisition and Development of Shopping Centers and
Liquidity and Capital Resources.



Net income for common stockholders was $27.4 million in 1997 vs. $9.9
million in 1996, a $17.5 million or 177% increase for the reasons previously
described. Diluted earnings per share in 1997 was $1.23 vs. $0.82 in 1996, an
increase of 50% due to the increase in net income combined with the dilutive
impact from the increase in weighted average common shares and equivalents of
12.4 million primarily due to the Acquisition of the Branch Properties, the
issuance of shares to SC-USREALTY, and the public offering discussed previously.


Funds from Operations

The Company considers funds from operations ("FFO"), as defined by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as net income (computed in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) excluding gains (or
losses) from debt restructuring and sales of income producing property held for
investment, plus depreciation and amortization of real estate, and after
adjustments for unconsolidated investments in real estate partnerships and joint
ventures, to be the industry standard for reporting the operations of real
estate investment trusts ("REITs"). Adjustments for investments in real estate
partnerships are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. While management
believes that FFO is the most relevant and widely used measure of the Company's
performance, such amount does not represent cash flow from operations as defined
by generally accepted accounting principles, should not be considered an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating
performance, and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow
needs. Additionally, the Company's calculation of FFO, as provided below, may
not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other REITs.

FFO increased by 50% from 1997 to 1998 as a result of the activity discussed
above under "Results of Operations". FFO for the periods ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 are summarized in the following table (in thousands):





Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

Management anticipates that cash generated from operating activities will
provide the necessary funds on a short-term basis for its operating expenses,
interest expense and scheduled principal payments on outstanding indebtedness,
recurring capital expenditures necessary to properly maintain the shopping
centers, and distributions to share and unit holders. Net cash provided by
operating activities was $65 million and $43 million for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company incurred recurring and
non-recurring capital expenditures (non-recurring expenditures pertain to
immediate building improvements on new acquisitions and anchor tenant
improvements on new leases) of $8.3 million and $5.2 million, during 1998 and
1997, respectively. The Company paid scheduled principal payments of $3.4
million and $2.2 million during 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company paid
dividends and distributions of $54.9 million and $35.9 million, during 1998 and
1997, respectively, to its share and unit holders.

Management expects to meet long-term liquidity requirements for term debt
payoffs at maturity, non-recurring capital expenditures, and acquisition,
renovation and development of shopping centers from: (i) excess cash generated
from operating activities, (ii) working capital reserves, (iii) additional debt
borrowings, and (iv) additional equity raised in the public markets. Net cash
used in investing activities was $236.4 million and $188.5 million, during 1998
and 1997, respectively, primarily for purposes discussed above under
Acquisitions and Development of Shopping Centers. Net cash provided by financing
activities was $174.7 million and $153.8 million during 1998 and 1997,
respectively, primarily related to the proceeds from the preferred unit and debt
offerings completed during 1998, and the proceeds from the common stock offering
in 1997, further discussed below. At December 31, 1998, the Company had 12
shopping centers under construction or undergoing major renovations, with costs
to date of $121.7 million. Total committed costs necessary to complete the
properties under development is estimated to be $47.4 million and will be
expended through 1999.

The Company's outstanding debt at December 31, 1998 and 1997 consists of the
following (in thousands):

                                                        1998            1997
                                                        ----            ----
      Notes Payable:
       Fixed rate mortgage loans                     $  298,148         199,078
       Variable rate mortgage loans                      11,051          30,841
       Fixed rate unsecured loans                       121,296               -
                                                        -------         -------
          Total notes payable                           430,495         229,919
      Acquisition and development line of credit        117,631          48,131
                                                        -------         -------
                           Total                     $  548,126         278,050
                                                        =======         =======

The weighted average interest rate on total debt at December 31, 1998 and 1997
was 7.4% and 7.3%, respectively. The Company's debt is typically
cross-defaulted, but not cross-collateralized, and includes usual and customary
affirmative and negative covenants.

The Company is a party to a credit agreement dated as of March 27, 1998, 
providing for an unsecured line of credit (the "Line") from a group of
lenders currently consisting of Wells Fargo, First Union, Wachovia Bank,
NationsBank, AmSouth Bank, Commerzbank AG, PNC Bank, and Star Bank. This credit
agreement provides for a $300 million commitment, and incorporates a competitive
bid facility of up to $150 million of the commitment amount. Maximum
availability under the Line is based on the discounted value of a pool of
eligible unencumbered assets (determined on the basis of capitalized net
operating income) less the amount of the Company's outstanding unsecured
liabilities. The Line matures in May 2000, but may be extended annually for one
year periods. Borrowings under the Line bear interest at a variable rate based
on LIBOR plus a specified spread, (.875% currently), which is dependent on the
Company's investment grade rating. The Company's ratings are currently Baa2 from
Moody's Investor Service, BBB from Duff and Phelps, and BBB- from Standard and
Poors. The Company is required to comply, and is in compliance, with certain
financial and other covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing.
These financial covenants include among others (i) maintenance of minimum net
worth, (ii) ratio of total liabilities to gross asset value, (iii) ratio of
secured indebtedness to gross asset value, (iv) ratio of EBITDA to interest
expense, (v) ratio of EBITDA to debt service and reserve for replacements, and
(vi) ratio of unencumbered net operating income to interest expense on unsecured
indebtedness. The Line is used primarily to finance the acquisition and
development of real estate, but is also available for general working capital
purposes.

On February 26, 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with the
various banks that provide the Line to increase the unsecured commitment amount
to $635 million.

On June 29, 1998, the Company through RCLP issued $80 million of 8.125%
Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Series A Preferred Units") to
an institutional investor, Belair Capital Fund, LLC, in a private placement. The
issuance involved the sale of 1.6 million Series A Preferred Units for $50.00
per unit. The Series A Preferred Units, which may be called by the Company at
par on or after June 25, 2003, have no stated maturity or mandatory redemption,
and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at an annualized rate of 8.125%. At any
time after June 25, 2008, the Series A Preferred Units may be exchanged for
shares of 8.125% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company
at an exchange rate of one share of Series A Preferred Stock for one Series A
Preferred Unit. The Series A Preferred Units and Series A Preferred Stock are
not convertible into common stock of the Company. The net proceeds of the
offering were used to reduce the Line.

On July 17, 1998 the Company, through RCLP, completed a $100 million
offering of seven year term notes at an effective interest rate of 7.17%. The
Notes were priced at 162.5 basis points over the current yield for seven year US
Treasury Bonds. The net proceeds of the offering were used to reduce the balance
of the Line.

Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, but generally may
be prepaid subject to a prepayment of a yield-maintenance premium. Mortgage
loans are generally due in monthly installments of interest and principal and
mature over various terms through 2018. Variable interest rates on mortgage
loans are currently based on LIBOR plus a spread in a range of 125 basis points
to 150 basis points. Fixed interest rates on mortgage loans range from 7.04% to
9.8%.

During 1998, the Company assumed mortgage loans with a fair value of $132.8
million related to the acquisition of shopping centers, which includes debt
premiums of $12.4 million based upon the above market interest rates of the debt
instruments. Debt premiums are being amortized over the terms of the related
debt instruments.

As of December 31, 1998, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable and the
Line for the next five years were as follows (in thousands):


                                        
                                         Scheduled                   
                                         Principal      Term Loan        Total
   Scheduled Payments by Year            Payments       Maturities      Payments
   --------------------------            ---------      ----------      --------

          1999                           $  3,771         21,579          25,350
          2000                              3,996        174,674         178,670
          2001                              3,911         41,928          45,839
          2002                              3,098         44,117          47,215
          2003                              2,914         13,291          16,205
          Beyond 5 Years                   17,811        206,607         224,418
          Net unamortized debt                                                
           payments                             -         10,429          10,429
                                          -------        -------         -------
              Total                      $ 35,501        512,625         548,126
                                          =======        =======         =======

Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had mortgage loans payable of
$76.7 million at December 31, 1998, and the Company's proportionate share of
these loans was $34.4 million.

The Company qualifies and intends to continue to qualify as a REIT under the 
Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable 
income by all or a portion of its distributions to stockholders. As 
distributions have exceeded taxable income, no provision for federal income
taxes has been made. While the Company intends to continue to pay dividends to
its stockholders, it also will reserve such amounts of cash flow as it considers
necessary for the proper maintenance and improvement of its real estate, while
still maintaining its qualification as a REIT.

The Company's real estate portfolio has grown substantially during 1998 as a
result of the acquisitions and development discussed above. The Company intends
to continue to acquire and develop shopping centers in the near future, and
expects to meet the related capital requirements from borrowings on the Line.
The Company expects to repay the Line from time to time from additional public
and private equity and debt offerings, such as those completed during 1997 and
1998. Because such acquisition and development activities are discretionary in
nature, they are not expected to burden the Company's capital resources
currently available for liquidity requirements. The Company expects that cash
provided by operating activities, unused amounts available under the Line, and
cash reserves are adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

Pacific Retail Trust Merger
- ---------------------------

On September 23, 1998, the Company entered into an Agreement of Merger
("Agreement") with Pacific Retail Trust ("Pacific"), a privately held real
estate investment trust. The Agreement, among other matters, provides for the
merger of Pacific into Regency, and the exchange of each Pacific common or
preferred share into 0.48 shares of Regency common or preferred stock. The
stockholders approved the merger at a Special Meeting of Stockholders held
February 26, 1999. At the time of the merger, Pacific owned 71 retail shopping
centers that are operating or under construction containing 8.4 million SF of
gross leaseable area. On February 28, 1999, the effective date of the merger,
the Company issued equity instruments valued at $770.6 million to the Pacific
stockholders in exchange for their outstanding common and preferred shares, and
units. The total cost to acquire Pacific is expected to be $1.157 billion based
on the value of Regency shares issued including the assumption of $379 million
of outstanding debt and other liabilities of Pacific, and estimated closing
costs of $7.5 million. The price per share used to determine the purchase price
is $23.325 based on the five day average of the closing stock price of Regency's
common stock as listed on the New York Stock Exchange immediately before, during
and after the date the terms of the merger were agreed to and announced to the
public. The merger will be accounted for as a purchase with the Company as the
acquiring entity.

New Accounting Standards and Accounting Changes
- -----------------------------------------------

The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities " (FAS 133), which is effective for all fiscal quarters of all fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 1999. FAS 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities. FAS 133
requires entities to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities
in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. The Company
does not believe FAS 133 will materially effect its financial statements. g.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

The Company like others in the commercial real estate industry, is subject to
numerous environmental laws and regulations and the operation of dry cleaning
plants at the Company's shopping centers is the principal environmental concern.
The Company believes that the dry cleaners are operating in accordance with
current laws and regulations and has established procedures to monitor their
operations. The Company has approximately 31 properties that will require or are
currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. These
remediations are not expected to have a material financial effect on the Company
due to financial statement reserves and various state-regulated programs that
shift the responsibility and cost for remediation to the state. Based on
information presently available, no additional environmental accruals were made
and management believes that the ultimate disposition of currently known matters
will not have a material effect on the financial position, liquidity, or
operations of the Company.

Inflation
- ---------

Inflation has remained relatively low during 1998 and 1997 and has had a minimal
impact on the operating performance of the shopping centers, however,
substantially all of the Company's long-term leases contain provisions designed
to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses
enabling the Company to receive percentage rentals based on tenants' gross
sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which
generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation
clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar
inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of
less than ten years, which permits the Company to seek increased rents upon
re-rental at market rates. Most of the Company's leases require the tenants to
pay their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real
estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing the Company's exposure
to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.

Year 2000 System Compliance
- ---------------------------

Management recognizes the potential effect Year 2000 may have on the Company's
operations and, as a result, has implemented a Year 2000 Compliance Project. The
term "Year 2000 compliant" means that the software, hardware, equipment, goods
or systems utilized by, or material to the physical operations, business
operations, or financial reporting of an entity will properly perform date
sensitive functions before, during and after the year 2000.

The Company's Year 2000 Compliance Project includes an awareness phase, an
assessment phase, a renovation phase, and a testing phase of our data processing
network, accounting and property management systems, computer and operating
systems, software packages, and building management systems. The project also
includes surveying our major tenants and financial institutions. Total costs
incurred to date associated with the Company's Year 2000 compliance project have
been reflected in the Company's income statement throughout 1998 and 1997, and
were approximately $250,000.

The Company's computer hardware, operating systems, general accounting and
property management systems and principal desktop software applications are Year
2000 compliant as certified by the various vendors. We are currently testing
these systems, and expect to complete the testing phase by June 30, 1999. Based
on initial testing, Management does not anticipate any Year 2000 issues that
will materially impact operations or operating results.

An assessment of the Company's building management systems has been completed.
This assessment has resulted in the identification of certain lighting,
telephone, and voice mail systems that may not be Year 2000 compliant. While we
have not yet begun renovations, Management believes that the cost of upgrading
these systems will not exceed $500,000. It is anticipated that the renovation
and testing phases will be complete by June 30, 1999, and the Company expects to
be compliant upon completion of these phases.

The Company has surveyed its major tenants and financial institutions to
determine the extent to which the Company is vulnerable to third parties'
failure to resolve their Year 2000 issues. The Company will be able to more
adequately assess its third party risk when responses are received from the
majority of the entities contacted.

Management believes its planning efforts are adequate to address the Year 2000
issue and that its risk factors are primarily those that it cannot directly
control, including the readiness of its major tenants and financial
institutions. Failure on the part of these entities to become Year 2000
compliant could result in disruption in the Company's cash receipt and
disbursement functions. There can be no guarantee, however, that the systems of
unrelated entities upon which the Company's operations rely will be corrected on
a timely basis and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

The Company does not have a formal contingency plan or a timetable for
implementing one. Contingency plans will be established, if they are deemed
necessary, after the Company has adequately assessed the impact on operations
should third parties fail to properly respond to their Year 2000 issues.


Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Market Risk
- -----------

The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of its
line of credit and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and fund capital
expenditures and expansion of the Company's real estate investment portfolio and
operations. The Company's interest rate risk management objective is to limit
the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower its
overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives the Company borrows primarily
at fixed rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as
interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate its interest
rate risk on a related financial instrument. The Company has no plans to enter
into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes, and at
December 31, 1998, the Company did not have any borrowings hedged with
derivative financial instruments.

The Company's interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. The
table below presents the principal amounts maturing (in thousands), weighted
average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in
thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and
sensitivity to interest rate changes.



As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of December 31,
1998, it does not consider those exposures or positions which could arise after
that date. Moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table
above, the information presented therein has limited predictive value. As a
result, the Company's ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest
rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, the
Company's hedging strategies at that time, and interest rates.

Forward Looking Statements
- --------------------------

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a safe
harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The
Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral
statements that are "forward-looking," including statements contained in this
report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in
reports to the Company's stockholders. All statements that express expectations
and projections with respect to future matters, including the launching or
prospective development of new business initiatives; anticipated yields on real
estate acquisitions or developments; "Year 2000" remediation efforts; and
environmental remediation efforts, are forward-looking within the meaning of the
Act. Such statements involve unknown risks and uncertainties of business and
economic conditions pertaining to the operation, acquisition, or development of
shopping centers including the retail business sector, and may cause actual
results of the Company in the future to significantly differ from any future
results that may be implied by such forward-looking statements.


Item 8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in this
Report are listed in Part IV, Item 14(a).


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
          Financial Disclosure

None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


Information concerning the directors of the Company is incorporated herein by 
reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal 
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 1999 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders. The following table provides information concerning the executive
officers of the Company


 Executive Officer                     Positions with the Company
    (Age)                    Principal Occupations During the Past Five Years
 -----------------           ------------------------------------------------

Martin E. Stein, Jr.         Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director
  (age 46)                   of the Company since its initial public offering in
                             October 1993; previously President of the Company's
                             predecessor real estate division since 1976.

MaryLou Rogers               President and Chief Operating Officer since 
  (age 47)                   January, 1999 and Director of the Company since 
                             March, 1997; Managing Director - Security Capital 
                             U.S. Realty Strategic Group From March 1997 to
                             January 1999; Senior Vice President and
                             Director of Stores, New England - Macy's East/
                             Federated Department Stores from 1994 to March
                             1997; various retailing positions since joining
                             Macy's in 1977, including Senior Vice President
                             for Federated's Burdines Division and Henri
                             Bendel.

James G. Buis                Managing Director - Southwestern U.S. Investments 
  (age 54)                   of the Company since February  1999;  Managing  
                             Director - Pacific  Retail Trust from  October,
                             1995 to February 1999; Executive Vice President
                             - Madison Property Corporation from 1993 to
                             October, 1995; Executive Vice President -
                             Rosewood Property Company from 1989 to 1993;
                             Retail Partner - Lincoln Property Company from
                             1979 to 1989.

John S. Delatour             Managing Director - Western U.S. Operations of the
  (age 40)                   Company since February, 1999; Managing Director - 
                             Pacific Retail Trust from June, 1996 to February 
                             1999; Senior Vice President - Lincoln Property 
                             Company from 1983 to June, 1996.

Robert C. Gillander          Managing Director - Eastern U.S. Investments of the
  (age 45)                   Company since its initial public offering in 
                             October 1993, and Vice President of the
                             Company's predecessor real estate division
                             since 1978.

Bruce M. Johnson             Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of 
   (age 51)                  the Company since its initial public offering in 
                             October 1993, and Executive Vice President of
                             the Company's predecessor real estate division 
                             since 1979.

Brian M. Smith               Managing Director - Pacific Investments of the 
  (age 44)                   Company since February, 1999;  Managing  Director -
                             Pacific Retail Trust from February, 1997 to 
                             February 1999; Senior Vice President - Lowe
                             Enterprises, Inc. from 1994 to February 1997;
                             Managing Director - Trammell Crow Company from
                             1983 to 1994.

James D. Thompson            Managing Director - Eastern Operations of the 
  (age 42)                   Company since its initial public offering in 
                             October 1993, and Vice President of the Company's
                             predecessor real estate division since 1981.

Lee S. Wielansky             Managing Director - Investments and Director of the
  (age 48)                   Company since March 1998; President and Chief 
                             Executive Officer - Midland Development Group
                             from 1983 to March 1998.


Item 11.   Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 1999 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.


Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owner and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 1999 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.


Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 1999 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.


                                     PART IV


Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

The Company's 1998 financial statements and financial statement schedule,
together with the report of KPMG LLP dated February 1, 1999, except for Note 13
as to which the date is March 1, 1999, are listed on the index immediately
preceding the financial statements at the end of this report.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

None

     (c)  Exhibits:


2.       Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 23, 1998 between
         Regency Realty Corporation and Pacific Retail Trust (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the registration statement on Form S-4 of
         Regency Realty Corporation, No. 333-65491)

3.       Articles of Incorporation

          # (i)   Restated Articles of Incorporation of Regency Realty 
                  Corporation as amended.

          #(ii)   Restated Bylaws of Regency Realty Corporation.

4.       (a) See exhibits 3(i) and 3(ii) for provisions of the Articles of
             Incorporation and Bylaws of Regency Realty Corporation defining
             rights of security holders.

         (b) Indenture dated July 20, 1998 between Regency Centers, L.P., the
             guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as trustee
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the registration
             statement on Form S-4 of Regency Centers, L.P., No. 333-63723).

10.      Material Contracts

          ~*(a)   Regency Realty Corporation 1993 Long Term Omnibus Plan

          ~*(b)   Form of Stock Purchase Award Agreement

          ~*(c)   Form of Management Stock Pledge Agreement, relating to the  
                  Stock Purchase Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(b)

          ~*(d)   Form of Promissory Note, relating to the Stock Purchase Award 
                  Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(b)

          ~*(e)   Form of Option Award Agreement for Key Employees

          ~*(f)   Form of Option Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors

          ~*(g)   Annual Incentive for Management Plan

          ~*(h)   Form of Director/Officer Indemnification Agreement

          ~*(i)   Form of Non-Competition Agreement between Regency Realty 
                  Corporation and Joan W. Stein, Robert L. Stein, Richard W. 
                  Stein, the Martin E. Stein Testamentary Trust A and the 
                  Martin E. Stein Testamentary Trust B.

          ~*(j)   Form of Employment Agreement with Martin E. Stein, Jr.

       ~*** (k)   Form of Employment Agreements entered into with the following 
                  executive officers:

                  (i)      Bruce M. Johnson
                  (ii)     Robert C. Gillander, Jr.
                  (iii)    James D. Thompson

            (l)   The following documents, all dated November 5, 1993,
                  relating to a $51 million loan from Salomon Brothers
                  Inc. to corporations and subsidiaries wholly owned by
                  the Company.

                  **   (i)  Loan  Agreement  between  RSP  IV  Criterion,  Ltd.,
                            Regency Rosewood Temple Terrace, Ltd., Treasure 
                            Coast Investors, Ltd., Landcom Regency Mandarin, 
                            Ltd., RRC FL SPC, Inc., RRC AL SPC, Inc., RRC MS 
                            SPC, Inc., and RRC GA SPC, Inc.(as borrowers) and 
                            RRC Lender, Inc. (as lender)

                  **  (ii)  Promissory Note in the original principal amount of 
                            $51 million 

                  ** (iii)  Undertaking executed by the Registrant and RRC FL 
                            SPC, Inc., RRC AL SPC, Inc., RRC MS SPC, Inc., and 
                            RRC GA SPC, Inc.

                  **  (iv)  Certificate Purchase Agreement between RRC Lender, 
                            Inc. (as seller) and Salomon Brothers, Inc. (as 
                            lender)

            (m)   The following documents relating to the purchase by Security  
                  Capital U.S. Realty and Security Capital Holdings, S.A. of up 
                  to 45% of the Registrant's outstanding common stock:

                  ++   (i)  Stock Purchase Agreement dated June 11, 1996.

                  ++  (ii)  Stockholders' Agreement dated July 10, 1996.

                      +++   (A) First Amendment of Stockholders' Agreement dated
                                February 10, 1997.
                            (B) Amendment No. 2 to Stockholders' Agreement dated
                                December 4, 1997 (incorporated by reference to
                                Exhibit 6.2 to Schedule 13D/A filed by Security 
                                Capital U.S. Realty on December 11, 1997)

                  ++ (iii)  Registration Rights Agreement dated July 10, 1996.

        +  (n)    Stock Grant Plan adopted on January 31, 1994 to grant stock to
                  employees.

        ~@ (o)    Criteria for Restricted Stock Awards under 1993 Long Term 
                  Omnibus Plan.

        ~@ (p)    Form of 1996 Stock Purchase Award Agreement.

        ~@ (q)    Form of 1996 Management Stock Pledge Agreement relating to the
                  Stock Purchase Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(p).

        ~@ (r)    Form of Promissory Note relating to 1996 Stock Purchase Award 
                  Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(p).


     +++         Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K report filed 
                 March 14, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

     @           Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 
                 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

     @@          Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed May 15,
                 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

     @@@         Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K/A report filed
                 March 19, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

     @@@ (s)     Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
                 Regency Centers, L.P.

         (t)     Amendment No. 1 to the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
                 Limited Partnership of Regency Centers, L.P. (incorporated by 
                 reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the  Registration Statement on Form
                 10 of Regency Centers, L.P.)

         (u)     Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 26, 
                 1999 by and among Regency Centers, L.P., a Delaware limited 
                 partnership (the "Borrower"), Regency Realty Corporation, a 
                 Florida corporation (the "Parent"), each of the financial 
                 institutions initially a signatory hereto together with their 
                 assignees, (the "Lenders"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National 
                 Association, as contractual representative of the Lenders to 
                 the extent and in the manner provided.

         (v)     Assignment and Acceptance Agreement dated as of February 26, 
                 1999 by and among Regency Centers, L.P., Regency Realty 
                 Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as 
                 Agent.

- -------------------------
~         Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed 
          pursuant to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).
#         Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 11, 
          1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
*         Included as an exhibit to the Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the 
          Company's S-11 filed October 5, 1993, and incorporated herein by 
          reference
**        Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed December 13, 
          1993, and incorporated herein by reference
***       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed November 14, 
          1996, and incorporated herein by reference
+         Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed May 12, 1994, 
          and incorporated herein by reference
++        Filed as appendices to the Company's definitive proxy statement dated 
          August 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.
+++       Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K report filed March 14, 
          1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
@         Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K filed March 25, 1997 
          and incorporated herein by reference.
@@        Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q filed May 15, 1997 
          and incorporated herein by reference.
@@@       Included as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K/A report filed
          March 19, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.


21.      Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.      Consent of KPMG LLP

27.      Financial Data Schedule




                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

Date:    March 12, 1999            By:   /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.     
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      Martin E Stein, Jr., Chairman of the Board
                                      and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 12, 1999            By:   /s/ Bruce M. Johnson                 
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Bruce M. Johnson, Managing Director and
                                      Principal Financial Officer

Date:    March 12, 1999            By:   /s/ J. Christian Leavitt              
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      J. Christian Leavitt, Senior Vice 
                                      President, Finance and Principal 
                                      Accounting Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.                     
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Martin E. Stein, Jr., Chairman of the Board
                                   and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Mary Lou Rogers                        
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Mary Lou Rogers, President, Chief Operating
                                   Officer and Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Thomas B. Allin                         
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Thomas B. Allin, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Raymond L. Bank                          
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Raymond L. Bank, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ A. R. Carpenter                          
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   A. R. Carpenter, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Jeffrey A. Cozad                         
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Jeffrey A. Cozad, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ J. Dix Druce, Jr.                        
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   J. Dix Druce, Jr., Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ John T. Kelley                          
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   John T. Kelley, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Douglas S. Luke                         
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Douglas S. Luke, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ John C. Schweitzer                       
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   John C. Schweitzer, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Lee Wielansky                            
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Lee Wielansky, Director

Date:    March 12, 1999            /s/ Terry N. Worrell                         
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Terry N. Worrell, Director






                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




Regency Realty Corporation

     Independent Auditors' Report                                            F-2
     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997            F-3
     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996                                   F-4
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                    F-5
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996                                   F-6
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                              F-8


Financial Statement Schedule

     Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule            S-1

     Schedule III - Regency Realty Corporation Combined Real Estate and
         Accumulated Depreciation - December 31, 1998                        S-2



        All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or
        because information required therein is shown in the financial
        statements or notes thereto.


                             F-2

                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Realty Corporation:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Regency Realty
Corporation as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regency Realty
Corporation as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1998 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



                                    KPMG LLP


Jacksonville, Florida 
February 1, 1999, except for Note 13, 
as to which the date is March 1, 1999


                             F-3



    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                             F-4



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                             F-5



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                             F-6



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                             F-8

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 1998



1.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       (a)    Organization and Principles of Consolidation

              The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
              accounts of Regency Realty Corporation, its wholly owned qualified
              REIT subsidiaries, and its majority owned or controlled
              subsidiaries and partnerships (the "Company" or "Regency"). All
              significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
              eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The Company
              owns approximately 96% of the outstanding common units of Regency
              Centers, L.P. ("RCLP" or the "Partnership" formerly known as
              Regency Retail Partnership, L.P.) and partnership interests
              ranging from 51% to 93% in five majority owned real estate
              partnerships (the "Majority Partnerships"). The equity interests
              of third parties held in RCLP and the Majority Partnerships are
              included in the consolidated financial statements as exchangeable
              operating partnership units and limited partners' interests in
              consolidated partnerships, respectively. The Company is a
              qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT") which began
              operations in 1993.

        (b)   Revenues

              The Company leases space to tenants under agreements with varying
              terms. Leases are accounted for as operating leases with minimum
              rent recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the
              lease regardless of when payments are due. Accrued rents are
              included in tenant receivables. Minimum rent has been adjusted to
              reflect the effects of recognizing rent on a straight line basis.

              Substantially all of the lease agreements contain provisions which
              provide additional rents based on tenants' sales volume
              (contingent or percentage rent) or reimbursement of the tenants'
              share of real estate taxes and certain common area maintenance
              (CAM) costs. These additional rents are reflected on the accrual
              basis. On May 22, 1998, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 
              reached a consensus on Issue 98-9 "Accounting for Contingent Rent 
              in Interim Financial Periods". The EITF has stated that lessors 
              should defer recognition of contingent rent that is based on 
              meeting specified targets until those specified targets are met 
              and not ratably throughout the year. The Company has previously 
              recognized contingent rent ratably over the year based on the 
              historical trends of its tenants. Although the EITF subsequently 
              reversed its original consensus related to contingent rent, the 
              Company has adopted the provisions of Issue 98-9 prospectively and
              has ceased the recognition of contingent rents until such time as 
              its tenants have achieved their specified target. The effect of 
              the adoption was not material to the financial statements during 
              1998, since most of the Company's tenants had met their specified 
              targets prior to year end and contingent rents were appropriately
              recognized.

              Management, leasing, brokerage and development fees are recognized
              as revenue when earned.

                             F-9


                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



       (c)    Real Estate Investments

              Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost. All direct
              and indirect costs clearly associated with the acquisition,
              development and construction of real estate projects owned by the
              Company are capitalized as buildings and improvements except for
              operating properties acquired. Effective March 19, 1998, the EITF
              ruled in Issue 97-11, "Accounting for Internal Costs Relating to
              Real Estate Property Acquisitions", that only internal costs of
              identifying and acquiring non-operating properties that are
              directly identifiable with the acquired properties should be
              capitalized, and that all internal costs associated with
              identifying and acquiring operating properties should be expensed
              as incurred. The Company had previously capitalized direct costs
              associated with the acquisition of operating properties as a cost
              of the real estate. The Company has adopted EITF 97-11 effective
              March 19, 1998. During 1997, the Company capitalized approximately
              $1.5 million of internal costs related to acquiring operating
              properties. Through the effective date of EITF 97-11, the Company
              has capitalized $855,000 of internal acquisition costs. For the
              remainder of 1998, the Company incurred approximately $1.5 million
              of internal costs related to acquiring operating properties which
              was expensed.

              Maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the useful
              lives of the respective assets are reflected in operating and
              maintenance expense. The property cost includes the capitalization
              of interest expense incurred during construction in accordance
              with generally accepted accounting principles.

              Depreciation is computed using the straight line method over
              estimated useful lives up to forty years for buildings and
              improvements, term of lease for tenant improvements, and five to
              seven years for furniture and equipment.

       (d)    Income Taxes

              The Company qualifies and intends to continue to qualify as a REIT
              under the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, the Company is allowed
              to reduce taxable income by all or a portion of its distributions
              to stockholders. As distributions have exceeded taxable income, no
              provision for federal income taxes has been made in the
              accompanying consolidated financial statements.

              Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends
              to stockholders, differ from net income reported for financial
              reporting purposes primarily because of different depreciable
              lives and bases of rental properties and differences in the timing
              of recognition of earnings upon disposition of properties.

              Regency Realty Group, Inc., the Company's management company
              subsidiary ("RRG"), is subject to Federal and State income taxes
              and files separate tax returns. RRG had taxable income of
              $1,052,233, $918,763 and $0 for the years ended December 31, 1998,
              1997 and 1996, respectively. RRG incurred Federal and State income
              tax of $344,833 and $327,021 in 1998 and 1997, respectively, and
              paid no tax in 1996.


                             F-10

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



         (d)  Income Taxes (continued)

              At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the net book basis of real estate
              assets exceeds the tax basis by approximately $122 million and
              $39.6 million, respectively, primarily due to the difference
              between the cost basis of the assets acquired and their carryover
              basis recorded for tax purposes.

              The following summarizes the tax status of dividends paid during
              the years ended December 31 (unaudited):

                                              1998          1997         1996
                                              ----          ----         ----

                 Dividend per share          $1.76          1.68         1.62
                 Ordinary income               71%           85%          77%
                 Capital gain                   2%             -            -
                 Return of capital             27%           15%          23%

        (e)   Deferred Costs

              Deferred costs consist of internal and external commissions
              associated with leasing the rental property and loan costs
              incurred in obtaining financing which are limited to initial
              direct and incremental costs. The net leasing commission balance
              was $3.3 and $1.7 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
              respectively. The net loan cost balance was $3.5 and $2.5 million
              at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Such costs are
              deferred and amortized over the terms of the respective leases and
              loans.

       (f)    Earnings Per Share

              The Company applies the provisions of Statement of Financial
              Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings per Share" to the
              computation, presentation, and disclosure requirements of earnings
              per share. Basic net income per share of common stock is computed
              based upon the weighted average number of common shares
              outstanding during the year. Diluted net income per share also
              includes common share equivalents for stock options, exchangeable
              partnership units, and Class B common stock when dilutive. See
              note 7 for the calculation of earnings per share.

       (g)    Cash and Cash Equivalents

              Any instruments which have an original maturity of ninety days or
              less when purchased are considered cash equivalents.

       (h)    Estimates

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
              generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company's
              management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
              reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of
              contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of the financial
              statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
              during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
              those estimates.

                             F-11

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


       (i)    Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

              The Company applies the provisions of SFAS No. 121, "Accounting
              for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets
              to be Disposed Of". This Statement requires that long-lived assets
              and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment
              whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
              carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability
              of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the
              carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to
              be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be
              impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the
              amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair
              value of the assets. Adoption of this Statement did not have a
              material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
              operations, or liquidity.

       (j)    Stock Option Plan

              The Company applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting
              for Stock Based Compensation", which allows companies a choice in
              the method of accounting for stock options. Entities may recognize
              as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all
              stock-based awards on the date of grant or SFAS No. 123 also
              permits entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB
              Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income and pro forma
              earnings per share disclosures for employee stock option grants
              made as if the fair-value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had
              been applied. APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to
              Employees", and related interpretations states that compensation
              expense would be recorded on the date of grant only if the current
              market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price.
              The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB
              Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of
              SFAS No. 123.

       (k)    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131


              The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
              131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
              Information" ("FAS 131"), which is effective for fiscal years
              beginning after December 15, 1997. FAS 131 establishes standards
              for the way that public business enterprises report information
              about operating segments in annual financial statements and
              requires that those enterprises report selected information about
              operating segments in interim and annual financial reports. The
              Company adopted FAS 131 as disclosed in note 3.

        (l)   Reclassifications

              Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1997 amounts to
              conform to classifications adopted in 1998.


                             F-12


                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



2.     Acquisitions of Shopping Centers

       During 1998, the Company acquired 31 shopping centers fee simple
       for approximately $355.9 million and also invested $28.4 million in 12
       joint ventures ("JV Properties"), for a total investment of $384.3
       million in 43 shopping centers ("1998 Acquisitions"). Included in the
       1998 Acquisitions are 32 shopping centers acquired from various entities
       comprising the Midland Group ("Midland"). Of the 32 Midland centers, 31
       are anchored by Kroger, and 12 are owned through joint ventures in which
       the Company's ownership interest is 50% or less. The Company's investment
       in the properties acquired from Midland is $236.6 million at December 31,
       1998. The Company expects to acquire all of the interests in two of the
       JV Properties for approximately $20.3 million during 1999 which will
       increase its total investment in the Midland properties to $256.9
       million. In addition, during 1999 and 2000, the Company may pay
       contingent consideration of up to an estimated $23 million, through the
       issuance of Partnership units and the payment of cash. The amount of such
       consideration, if issued, will depend on the satisfaction of certain
       performance criteria relating to the assets acquired from Midland.
       Transferors who received cash at the initial Midland closing will receive
       contingent future consideration in cash rather than units.

       The Company acquired 35 shopping centers during 1997 (the "1997
       Acquisitions") for approximately $395.7 million. Included in the 1997
       Acquisitions are 26 shopping centers acquired from Branch Properties
       ("Branch") for $232.4 million. During 1998, the Company issued 721,997
       additional Units and shares of common stock valued at $18.2 million to
       Branch as contingent consideration for the satisfaction of certain
       performance criteria of the properties acquired. The Company expects to
       issue the remaining contingent consideration, 298,064 Units, during 1999.

       The operating results of the 1998 and 1997 Acquisitions are included in 
       the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date each 
       property was acquired. The following unaudited pro forma information
       presents the consolidated results of operations as if all 1998 and 1997
       Acquisitions had occurred on January 1, 1997. Such pro forma information
       reflects adjustments to 1) increase depreciation, interest expense, and
       general and administrative costs, 2) remove the office buildings sold,
       and 3) adjust the weighted average common shares, and common equivalent
       shares outstanding issued to acquire the properties. Pro forma revenues
       would have been $156.4 and $144.4 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively.
       Pro forma net income for common stockholders would have been $44.5 and
       $28.0 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. Pro forma basic net income
       per share would have been $1.55 and $1.31 in 1998 and 1997, respectively.
       Pro forma diluted net income per share would have been $1.52 and $1.22,
       in 1998 and 1997, respectively. This data does not purport to be
       indicative of what would have occurred had the Acquisitions been made on
       January 1, 1997, or of results which may occur in the future.


                             F-13


                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



3.     Segments

       The Company was formed, and currently operates, for the purpose of 1)
       operating and developing Company owned retail shopping centers (Retail
       segment), and 2) providing services including property management,
       leasing, brokerage, and construction and development management for
       third-parties (Service operations segment). The Company had previously
       operated four office buildings, all of which have been sold during 1998
       and 1997 (Office buildings segment). The Company's reportable segments
       offer different products or services and are managed separately because
       each requires different strategies and management expertise. There are no
       material inter-segment sales or transfers.

       The Company assesses and measures operating results starting with Net
       Operating Income for the Retail and Office Buildings segments and Income
       for the Service operations segment and converts such amounts into a
       performance measure referred to as Funds From Operations (FFO). The
       operating results for the individual retail shopping centers have been
       aggregated since all of the Company's shopping centers exhibit highly
       similar economic characteristics as neighborhood shopping centers, and
       offer similar degrees of risk and opportunities for growth. FFO as
       defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
       consists of net income (computed in accordance with generally accepted
       accounting principles) excluding gains (or losses) from debt
       restructuring and sales of income producing property held for investment,
       plus depreciation and amortization of real estate, and adjustments for
       unconsolidated investments in real estate partnerships and joint
       ventures. The Company considers FFO to be the industry standard for
       reporting the operations of real estate investment trusts ("REITs").
       Adjustments for investments in real estate partnerships are calculated to
       reflect FFO on the same basis. While management believes that FFO is the
       most relevant and widely used measure of the Company's performance, such
       amount does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by
       generally accepted accounting principles, should not be considered an
       alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating
       performance, and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash
       flow needs. Additionally, the Company's calculation of FFO, as provided
       below, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other REITs.

       The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
       in note 1. The revenues, FFO, and assets for each of the reportable
       segments are summarized as follows for the years ended as of December 31,
       1998, 1997, and 1996. Non-segment assets to reconcile to total assets
       include cash, accounts receivable and deferred financing costs.


                             F-14

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


3.     Segments (continued)


                             F-15

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


4.     Investments in Real Estate Partnerships

       The Company accounts for all investments in which it owns less than 50%
       and does not have controlling financial interest, using the equity
       method. The Company's combined investment in these partnerships was $30.6
       million and $999,730 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Net
       income is allocated in accordance with each of the partnership
       agreements.

5.     Notes Payable and Acquisition and Development Line of Credit

       The Company's outstanding debt at December 31, 1998 and 1997 consists of
       the following (in thousands):

                                                       1998             1997
                                                       ----             ----
         Notes Payable:
          Fixed rate mortgage loans               $    298,148         199,078
          Variable rate mortgage loans                  11,051          30,841
          Fixed rate unsecured loans                   121,296               -
                                                       -------         -------
             Total notes payable                       430,495         229,919
         Acquisition and development 
          line of credit                               117,631          48,131
                                                       -------         -------
              Total                               $    548,126         278,050
                                                       =======         =======

       The Company has an acquisition and development line of credit (the
       "Line") which provides for a commitment up to $300 million, and
       incorporates a competitive bid facility of up to $150 million of the
       commitment amount. Maximum availability under the Line is based on the
       discounted value of a pool of eligible unencumbered assets less the
       amount of the Company's outstanding unsecured liabilities. The Line,
       which is unsecured, matures in May 2000, but may be extended annually for
       one year periods. Borrowings under the Line bear interest at a variable
       rate based on LIBOR plus a specified spread, (.875% currently), which is
       dependent on the Company's investment grade rating. The interest rate on
       the Line was 6.56% at December 31, 1998. The Company's ratings are
       currently Baa2 from Moody's Investor Service, BBB from Duff and Phelps,
       and BBB- from Standard and Poors. The Company is required to comply, and
       is in compliance, with certain financial covenants customary with this
       type of unsecured financing. The Line is used primarily to finance the
       acquisition and development of real estate, but is also available for
       general working capital purposes.

       On July 17, 1998 the Company through RCLP, completed a $100 million 
       offering of seven year term notes at an effective interest rate
       of 7.17%. The Notes were priced at 162.5 basis points over the current
       yield for seven year US Treasury Bonds. The notes are unsecured and
       mature on July 15, 2005. The net proceeds of the offering were used to
       repay borrowings under the Line.


       Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties, but
       generally may be prepaid subject to a prepayment of a yield-maintenance
       premium. Mortgage loans are generally due in monthly installments of
       interest and principal and mature over various terms through 2018.
       Variable interest rates on mortgage loans are currently based on LIBOR
       plus a spread in a range of 125 basis points to 150 basis points. Fixed
       interest rates on mortgage loans range from 7.04% to 9.8%.

                             F-16

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


5.     Notes Payable and Acquisition and Development Line of Credit (continued)

       During 1998, the Company assumed mortgage loans with a fair value of
       $132.8 million related to the acquisition of shopping centers, which
       includes debt premiums of $12.4 million based upon the above market
       interest rates of the debt instruments. Debt premiums are being amortized
       over the terms of the related debt instruments.

       As of December 31, 1998, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable
       and the Line were as follows (in thousands):


                                    
                                      Scheduled 
            Scheduled                 Principal       Term Loan         Total
            Payments by Year          Payments        Maturities       Payments
            ----------------          ---------       ----------       --------

            1999                      $  3,771          21,579          25,350
            2000                         3,996         174,674         178,670
            2001                         3,911          41,928          45,839
            2002                         3,098          44,117          47,215
            2003                         2,914          13,291          16,205
            Beyond 5 Years              17,811         206,607         224,418
            Net unamortized debt        
                payments                     -          10,429          10,429
                                       -------         -------         -------
              Total                   $ 35,501         512,625         548,126
                                       =======         =======         =======


       Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had mortgage loans payable
       of $76.7 million at December 31, 1998, and the Company's proportionate
       share of these loans was $34.4 million.

       The fair value of the Company's notes payable and Line are estimated
       based on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same
       remaining maturities. Variable rate notes payable, and the Company's
       Line, are considered to be at fair value since the interest rates on such
       instruments reprice based on current market conditions. Notes payable
       with fixed rates, that have been assumed in connection with acquisitions,
       are recorded in the accompanying financial statements at fair value. The
       Company considers the carrying value of all other fixed rate notes
       payable to be a reasonable estimation of their fair value based on the
       fact that the rates of such notes are similar to rates available to the
       Company for debt of the same terms.

6.     Stockholders' Equity

       On June 11, 1996, the Company entered into a Stockholders Agreement (the
       "Agreement") with SC-USREALTY granting it certain rights such as
       purchasing common stock, nominating representatives to the Company's 
       Board of Directors, and subjecting SC-USREALTY to certain restrictions 
       including voting and ownership restrictions. The Agreement primarily 
       granted SC-USREALTY (i) the right to acquire 7,499,400 shares for 
       approximately $132 million and also participation rights entitling it
       to purchase additional equity in the Company, at the same price as that
       offered to other purchasers, each time that the Company sells additional
       shares of capital stock or options or other rights to acquire capital
       stock, in order to preserve SC-USREALTY's pro rata ownership position;
       and (ii) the right to nominate a


                             F-17

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



6.     Stockholders' Equity (continued)


       proportionate number of directors on the Company's Board, rounded down 
       to the nearest whole number, based upon SC-USREALTY's percentage 
       ownership of outstanding common stock (but not to exceed 49% of the 
       Board). SC-USREALTY has acquired all of the 7,499,400 shares
       related to the Agreement. In connection with the Units and shares of
       common stock issued in exchange for Branch's assets. SC-USREALTY acquired
       1,750,000 shares during August and December, 1997 at $22.125 per share in
       accordance with their rights as provided for in the Agreement. In
       connection with the Units and shares of common stock issued for Branch in
       March 1998, SC-USREALTY acquired 435,777 shares at $22.125 per share in
       accordance with their rights as provided for in the Agreement. The
       acquisition of Branch is discussed further in note 2.

       For a period of at least five years (subject to certain exceptions),
       SC-USREALTY is precluded from, among other things, (i) acquiring more
       than 45% of the outstanding common stock on a diluted basis, (ii)
       transferring shares without the Company's approval in a negotiated
       transaction that would result in any transferee beneficially owning more
       than 9.8% of the Company's capital stock, or (iii) acting in concert with
       any third parties as part of a 13D group. Subject to certain exceptions,
       SC-USREALTY is required to vote its shares either as recommended by the
       Board of Directors or proportionately in accordance with the vote of the
       other stockholders.

       On July 11, 1997, the Company sold 2,415,000 shares to the public at
       $27.25 per share. In connection with that offering, SC-USREALTY purchased
       an additional 1,785,000 shares at $27.25 directly from the Company. On
       August 11, 1997, the Underwriters exercised the over-allotment option and
       the Company issued an additional 129,800 shares to the public and 95,939
       shares to SC-USREALTY at $27.25 per share. Total proceeds from the sale
       of common stock to the public and SC-USREALTY of approximately $117
       million net of offering expenses was used to reduce the balance of the
       Line.

       In connection with the acquisition of shopping centers, RCLP has issued
       Exchangeable Operating Partnership Units to limited partners convertible
       on a one for one basis into shares of common stock of the Company. There
       are currently 1,361,396 Exchangeable Operating Partnership Units
       outstanding.


       On June 29, 1998, the Company through RCLP issued $80 million of 8.125% 
       Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Series A Preferred 
       Units") to an institutional investor in a private placement.  The 
       issuance involved the sale of 1.6 million Series A Preferred Units
       for $50.00 per unit. The Series A Preferred Units, which may be called by
       the Partnership at par on or after June 25, 2003, have no stated maturity
       or mandatory redemption, and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at an
       annualized rate of 8.125%. At any time after June 25, 2008, the Series A
       Preferred Units may be exchanged for shares of 8.125% Series A Cumulative
       Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company at an exchange rate of one
       share of Series A Preferred Stock for one Series A Preferred Unit. The
       Series A Preferred Units and Series A Preferred Stock are not convertible
       into common stock of the Company. The net proceeds of the offering were
       used to reduce the acquisition and development line of credit.


                             F-18

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998





          Class B common stock is not included in the above calculation because
          it is anti-dilutive.


8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans

       In 1993, the Company adopted a Long-Term Omnibus Plan (the "Plan")
       pursuant to which the Board of Directors may grant stock and stock
       options to officers, directors and other key employees. The Plan provides
       for the issuance of up to 12% of the Company's common shares outstanding
       not to exceed 3.0 million shares. Stock options are granted with an
       exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value at the date of
       grant. All stock options granted have ten year terms, and with respect to
       

                             F-19

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans (continued)

       officers and other key employees, become fully exercisable after four 
       years from the date of grant, and with respect to directors, become 
       fully exercisable after one year.

       At December 31, 1998, there were approximately 300,000 shares available
       for grant under the Plan. The per share weighted-average fair value of
       stock options granted during 1998 and 1997 was $2.22 and $3.26 on the
       date of grant using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the
       following weighted-average assumptions: 1998 - expected dividend yield
       7.5%, risk-free interest rate of 4.8%, expected volatility 21%, and an
       expected life of 6.5 years; 1997 - expected dividend yield 6.3%,
       risk-free interest rate of 6.3%, expected volatility 21%, and an expected
       life of 5.7 years; The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting
       for its Plan and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized
       for its stock options in the consolidated financial statements.

       Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at
       the grant date for its stock options under SFAS No. 123, the Company's
       net income for common stockholders would have been reduced to the pro
       forma amounts indicated below (in thousands except per share data):


          Net income for
          Common stockholders               1998           1997           1996
          -------------------               ----           ----           ----

          As reported:                     $50,590        $27,402        $9,907
            Net income per share:
              Basic                        $  1.80        $  1.28        $ 0.82
              Diluted                      $  1.75        $  1.23        $ 0.82

          Pro forma:                       $49,565        $25,777        $9,897
            Net income per share:
              Basic                        $  1.76        $  1.18        $ 0.82
              Diluted                      $  1.71        $  1.15        $ 0.82


                  Pro forma net income for common stockholders reflects only
                  options granted subsequent to the issuance of SFAS 123 in
                  1995. Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation
                  cost for stock options under SFAS No. 123 is not reflected in
                  the pro forma net income for common stockholders amounts
                  presented above because compensation cost is reflected over
                  the options' vesting period and compensation cost for options
                  granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not considered.


                             F-20

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans (continued)


         Stock option activity during the periods indicated is as follows:


                                                                        Weighted
                                                                        Average
                                                     Number of          Exercise
                                                      Shares             Price
                                                     ---------          --------

           Outstanding, December 31, 1995             186,000           $  19.09
               Granted                                 12,000              24.67
                                                    ---------            

           Outstanding, December 31, 1996             198,000              19.43
                                                    ---------            

               Granted                              1,252,276              25.39
               Forfeited                               (7,000)             23.54
               Exercised                             (124,769)             19.25
                                                    ---------            

           Outstanding, December 31, 1997           1,318,507              25.08
                                                    ---------            

               Granted                                741,265              24.39
               Forfeited                             (123,495)             25.33
               Exercised                             (227,700)             24.97
                                                    ---------

           Outstanding, December 31, 1998           1,708,577           $  24.71
                                                    =========


The following table presents information regarding all options outstanding at
December 31, 1998.

                            Weighted
                             Average                                  Weighted
          Number of         Remaining             Range of            Average
          Options          Contractual            Exercise            Exercise
         Outstanding          Life                 Prices              Price
         -----------       -----------            --------            --------

             51,731         5.0 years       $   16.75  - 19.25     $       18.93
          1,231,578         8.6 years           22.25  - 25.25             24.26
            425,268         8.4 years           26.19  - 27.75             26.69
        -----------         ---------        -----------------      ------------

          1,708,577         8.5 years       $   16.75 -  27.75     $       24.71
        ===========         =========        =================      ============


                        F-21

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998



8.     Long-Term Stock Incentive Plans (continued)

       The following table presents information regarding options currently
       exercisable at December 31, 1998:

                                                                 Weighted
                 Number of               Range of                 Average
                  Options                Exercise                Exercise
                Exercisable               Prices                   Price
                -----------              --------                ---------

                  51,731         $     16.75 - 19.25            $     18.93
                  98,300                       25.25                  25.25
                  88,881               26.25 - 27.75                  26.99
                  ------             -------------                 --------
                 238,912         $     16.75 - 27.75            $     24.53
                 =======          ==================               ========

       Also as part of the Plan, in 1993, 1996 and 1998, certain officers and
       employees purchased common stock at fair market value directly from the
       Company, of which 90%, 95% and 95%, respectively, was financed by a stock
       purchase loan provided by the Plan. These recourse loans are fully
       secured by stock, bear interest at fixed rates of 6% to 7.79% and mature
       after ten years. The Board of Directors may authorize the forgiveness of
       all or a portion of the principal balance based on the Company's
       achievement of specified financial objectives, and total stockholder
       return performance targets. During 1998, 1997, and 1996, $662,196,
       $601,516, and $646,598 was forgiven, respectively, and is included as a
       charge to income on the consolidated statements of operations. The
       Company also has a performance based restricted stock plan for officers
       whereby a portion of the shares authorized under the Plan may be granted
       upon the achievement of certain total stockholder return performance
       targets. Shares granted under the plan become fully vested by January 1,
       2000. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company charged $250,000, $259,600
       and $809,400 to income on the consolidated statement of operations
       related to the restricted stock plan. In addition, the Company provided
       it's officers, directors and employees with other stock based
       compensation totaling $1.5, $1.7, and $1.5 million during 1998, 1997 and
       1996, respectively.

9.     Operating Leases

       The Company's properties are leased to tenants under operating leases
       with expiration dates extending to the year 2028. Future minimum rent
       under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31,1998, excluding
       tenant reimbursements of operating expenses and excluding additional
       contingent rentals based on tenants' sales volume are as follows:

             Year ending December 31,                         Amount

                       1999                                  110,538,266
                       2000                                  105,061,943
                       2001                                   89,224,053
                       2002                                   74,990,466
                       2003                                   64,644,898
                       Thereafter                            481,164,703
                                                            ------------
                         Total                             $ 925,624,329
                                                            ============


                             F-22

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 1998


9.     Operating Leases (continued)

       At December 31, 1998, the real estate portfolio as a whole was
       approximately 93% leased.

       The shopping centers' tenant base includes primarily national and
       regional supermarkets, drug stores, discount department stores and other
       retailers and, consequently, the credit risk is concentrated in the
       retail industry. There were no tenants which individually represented 10%
       or more of the Company's combined minimum rent. The combined annualized
       rent from the Company's four largest retail tenants represented
       approximately 26.9% of annualized base rent at December 31, 1998.

10.    Contingencies

       The Company like others in the commercial real estate industry, is
       subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations and the operation
       of dry cleaning plants at the Company's shopping centers is the principal
       environmental concern. The Company believes that the dry cleaners are
       operating in accordance with current laws and regulations and has
       established procedures to monitor their operations. While the Company has
       registered the plants located in Florida under a state funded program
       designed to substantially fund the clean up, if necessary, of any
       environmental issues, the owner or operator is not relieved from the
       ultimate responsibility for clean up. The Company also has established
       due diligence procedures to identify and evaluate potential environmental
       issues on properties under consideration for acquisition. In connection
       with acquisitions during 1998 and 1997, the Company has established
       environmental reserves which amounted to $2.2 million and $1.9 million at
       December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. While it is not possible to
       predict with certainty, management believes that the reserves are
       adequate to cover future clean-up costs related to these sites. The
       Company's policy is to accrue environmental clean-up costs when it is
       probable that a liability has been incurred and that amount is reasonably
       estimable. Based on information presently available, no additional
       environmental accruals were made and management believes that the
       ultimate disposition of currently known matters will not have a material
       effect on the financial position, liquidity, or operations of the
       Company.

  11.  Market and Dividend Information (Unaudited)

       The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
       ("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". The Company currently has approximately
       3,500 shareholders. The following table sets forth the high and low
       prices and the cash dividends declared on the Company's common stock by
       quarter for 1998 and 1997. All amounts are in thousands except per share
       data.



                             F-23

                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                              December 31, 1998


12.    Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



13.    Subsequent Event

       On September 23, 1998, the Company entered into an Agreement of Merger
       ("Agreement") with Pacific Retail Trust ("Pacific"), a privately held
       real estate investment trust. The Agreement, among other matters,
       provides for the merger of Pacific into Regency, and the exchange of each
       Pacific common or preferred share into 0.48 shares of Regency common or
       preferred stock. The stockholders approved the merger at a Special
       Meeting of Stockholders held February 26, 1999. At the time of the
       merger, Pacific owned 71 retail shopping centers that are operating or
       under construction containing 8.4 million SF of gross leaseable area. On
       February 28, 1999, the effective date of the merger, the Company issued
       equity instruments valued at $770.6 million to the Pacific stockholders
       in exchange for their outstanding common and preferred shares, and units.
       The total cost to acquire Pacific is $1.157 billion based on the value of
       Regency shares issued, including the assumption of $379 million of
       outstanding debt and other liabilities of Pacific, and estimated closing
       costs of $7.5 million. The price per share used to determine the purchase
       price is $23.325 based on the five day average of the closing stock price
       of Regency's common stock as listed on the New York Stock Exchange
       immediately before, during and after the date the terms of the merger
       were agreed to and announced to the public. The merger will be accounted
       for as a purchase with the Company as the acquiring entity.

       On February 26, 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with
       the various banks that provide the Line to increase the unsecured
       commitment amount to $635 million.


                             S-1

                          Independent Auditors' Report
                         On Financial Statement Schedule


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Realty Corporation


Under date of February 1, 1999, except for Note 13 as to which the date is March
1, 1999, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of Regency Realty
Corporation as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, as contained in the
annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1998. In connection with our audits of
the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the
related financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index on page
F-1 of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1998. This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statement schedule
based on our audits.


In our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.







                                    KPMG LLP




Jacksonville, Florida
February 1, 1999


                             S-2





                           REGENCY REALTY CORPORATION


                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 1998



Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and 
improvements reflected in the statement of operation is calculated over the 
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

       Buildings and improvements                              up to 40 years

       The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately 
       $1.029 billion at December 31, 1998.



The changes in total real estate assets for the period ended December 31, 
1998, 1997 and 1996:




