
10-K
dkm115.txt
FORM 10-K FYE DECEMBER 31, 2003

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(X)     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003

(  )    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the transition period from ______ to _______
                         Commission File Number 1-12298

                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        FLORIDA                                           59-3191743
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                         identification No.)

121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200                       (904) 598-7000
  Jacksonville, Florida    32202                    (Registrant's telephone No.)
(Address of principal executive offices)(zip code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value
                                (Title of Class)

          Depositary Shares, Liquidation Preference $25 per Depositary
           Share, each representing 1/10 of a share of 7.45% Series 3
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01
                                (Title of Class)

                             New York Stock Exchange
                     (Name of exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
                                                                    ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  YES  (X)     NO  (  )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ( )

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
YES (X)      NO (  )

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the Registrant's most recently completed second fiscal
quarter.  $2,570,967,045

The approximate number of shares of Registrant's voting common stock outstanding
was 60,400,569 as of March 10, 2004.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 2004 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.


                                

                                                                      Form 10-K
Item No.                                                             Report Page
- --------                                                             -----------
                                     PART I

1.       Business.........................................................1

2.       Properties.......................................................4

3.       Legal Proceedings...............................................13

4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.............13

                                     PART II

5.       Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Shareholder Matters.............................................13

6.       Selected Consolidated Financial Data............................14

7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations.......................................15

7a.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk......25

8.       Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........25

9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
         and Financial Disclosure........................................25

9a.      Controls and Procedures.........................................25

                                    PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..............26

11.      Executive Compensation..........................................26

12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management..27

13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..................27

14.      Principal Accountant Fees and Services..........................27

                                     PART IV

15.      Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports
         on Form 8-K.....................................................28




Forward Looking Statements
- --------------------------
         In addition to historical information, the following information
contains forward-looking statements as defined under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections
about the industry and markets in which Regency operates, and management's
beliefs and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied
by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited
to, changes in national and local economic conditions; financial difficulties of
tenants; competitive market conditions, including pricing of acquisitions and
sales of properties and out-parcels; changes in expected leasing activity and
market rents; timing of acquisitions, development starts and sales of properties
and out-parcels; weather; the ability to obtain governmental approvals; and
meeting development schedules. The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto of Regency Centers Corporation appearing elsewhere within.

                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business
Operating and Investment Philosophy
         Regency is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which
began operations in 1993. Our primary operating and investment goal is long-term
growth in earnings per share and total shareholder return by focusing on a
strategy of owning and operating grocery anchored shopping centers that are
anchored by market-leading supermarkets, and that are located in areas with
attractive demographics.

         Currently, our real estate investments before depreciation total $3.2
billion with 265 shopping centers in 22 states. At December 31, 2003, our gross
leasable area ("GLA") totaled 30.3 million square feet and was 92.2% leased.
Geographically, 19.6% of our GLA is located in Florida, 19.5% in California,
16.8% in Texas, 6.6% in Georgia, 6.3% in Ohio, and 31.2% spread throughout 17
other states. We own and operate our shopping centers through our operating
partnership, Regency Centers, L.P. ("RCLP"), in which we currently own 98% of
the operating partnership units. Regency's operating, investing and financing
activities are generally performed by RCLP.

         We earn revenues and generate operating cash flow by leasing space to
grocers and retail side-shop tenants in our shopping centers. We experience
growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates at currently owned
shopping centers, and by developing new shopping centers. A neighborhood center
is a convenient, cost-effective distribution platform for food retailers.
Grocery anchored centers generate substantial daily traffic and offer
sustainable competitive advantages to their tenants. This high traffic generates
increased sales, thereby driving higher occupancy, rental rates and rental-rate
growth for Regency, which we expect to sustain our growth in earnings per share
and increase the value of our portfolio over the long term.

         We seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty
tenants, for the same reason that we choose to anchor our centers with leading
grocers. We have created a formal partnering process -- the Premier Customer
Initiative ("PCI") -- to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our
non-grocer specialty retailers. The objective of PCI is for Regency to build a
base of specialty tenants who represent the "best-in-class" operators in their
respective merchandising categories. Such tenants reinforce the consumer appeal
and other strengths of a center's grocery anchor, help to stabilize a center's
occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover and yield higher
sustainable rents.

         We primarily grow our shopping center portfolio through new shopping
center development, where we acquire the land and construct the building.
Development is customer-driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from
the anchor before we start construction. Developments serve the growth needs of
our grocery and specialty retail customers, result in modern shopping centers
with long-term leases from the grocery anchors and produce attractive returns on
our invested capital. This development process can require up to 36 months from
initial land or redevelopment acquisition through construction, lease-up and
stabilization of rental income, depending upon the size of the project.
Generally, anchor tenants begin operating their stores prior to construction
completion of the entire center, resulting in rental income during the
development phase.

         We intend to maintain a conservative capital structure to fund our
growth programs without compromising our investment-grade ratings. Our approach
is founded on our self-funding business model. This model utilizes center
"recycling" as a key component. Our recycling strategy calls for us to re-deploy
the proceeds from the sales


of properties into new higher quality developments that we expect to generate
sustainable revenue growth and more attractive returns on invested capital. Our
commitment to maintaining a high-quality shopping center portfolio dictates that
we continually assess the value of all of our properties and sell those that no
longer meet our long-term investment standards.

         Joint venturing of shopping centers also provides us with a capital
source for new development, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset
and property management services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our
partners to apply similar operating, investment, and capital strategies to the
portfolios owned by the joint ventures. Joint ventures grow their shopping
center investments through acquisitions from third parties or direct purchases
of shopping centers from Regency. Although selling properties to joint ventures
reduces our ownership interest, we continue to share in the risks and rewards of
centers that meet our long-term investment strategy. Regency is not subject to
liability and has no obligations or guarantees of the joint ventures beyond its
ownership percentage.

Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Regency Common Stock

         We are subject to certain business risks that could affect our industry
which include, among others:

o    increased competition from super-centers such as Wal-Mart could result in
     grocery anchor closings or consolidations in the grocery store industry
     which could reduce our cash flow;

o    a slow down in our shopping center development program would reduce our
     operating revenues and gains from sales;

o    the bankruptcy or insolvency of, or a downturn in the business of, any of
     our major tenants could reduce our cash flow,

o    the possibility that major tenants will not renew their leases as they
     expire or renew at lower rental rates could reduce our cash flow,

o    the internet and e-commerce could reduce the demand for tenants to occupy
     our shopping centers,

o    vacant anchor space could affect the entire shopping center because of the
     loss of the anchor's customer drawing power,

o    poor market conditions could create an over supply of space or a reduction
     in demand for our shopping centers,

o    risks relating to leverage, including uncertainty that we will be able to
     refinance our indebtedness, and the risk of higher interest rates,

o    our inability to satisfy our cash requirements from operations and the
     possibility that we may be required to borrow funds to meet distribution
     requirements in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT,

o    potential liability for unknown or future environmental matters and costs
     of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act,

o    the risk of uninsured losses, and

o    unfavorable economic conditions could also result in the inability of
     tenants in certain retail sectors to meet their lease obligations and could
     adversely affect our ability to attract and retain desirable tenants.





Compliance with Governmental Regulations

         Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain
hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of required
remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of
the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. The presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely
affect the owner's ability to sell or rent the property or borrow using the
property as collateral. We have a number of properties that could require or are
currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. Environmental
remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial effect on us
due to reserves for remediation, insurance programs designed to mitigate the
cost of remediation and various state-regulated programs that shift the
responsibility and cost to the state.

Competition

         We are among the largest publicly-held owners of grocery-anchored
shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross
leaseable area and market capitalization. There are numerous companies and
private individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition and
operation of shopping centers which compete with us in our targeted markets.
This results in competition for attracting grocery anchor tenants, as well as,
the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. We
believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting tenants in our
market areas are location, demographics, rental costs, tenant mix, property age
and maintenance. We believe that our competitive advantages include our
locations within our market areas, our strong demographics surrounding our
shopping centers, our relationships with our grocery anchor tenants and
side-shop retailers, our PCI program which allows us to provide retailers with
multiple locations, our practice of maintaining and renovating of our shopping
centers, and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.

Changes in Policies

         Our Board of Directors establishes the policies that govern our
investment and operating strategies including, among others, development and
acquisition of shopping centers, tenant and market focus, debt and equity
financing policies, quarterly distributions to shareholders, and REIT tax
status. The Board of Directors may amend these policies at any time without a
vote of our shareholders.

Employees

         Our headquarters are located at 121 West Forsyth Street, Suite 200,
Jacksonville, Florida. We presently maintain nineteen offices in thirteen states
where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities.
At December 31, 2003, we had 385 employees and we believe that our relations
with our employees are good.

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

         The Company's website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com. All of
our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission can be accessed through
our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is
inaccessible, then we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report
on Form 10-K, the four previous quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current
reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding
exhibits, free of charge upon request.







Item 2. Properties

          A list of our shopping centers summarized by state and in order of
largest holdings follows based upon gross leaseable area (GLA), including those
properties that we partially own in joint ventures:









Item 2. Properties (continued)

         The following table summarizes the largest tenants occupying our
shopping centers based upon a percentage of total annualized base rent exceeding
..5%. The table includes 100% of the GLA in unconsolidated joint ventures.
Annualized base rent includes only Regency's pro-rata share of rent from
unconsolidated joint ventures.




         (a) Includes stores owned by anchor tenant that are attached to our
             centers.

        Regency's leases have terms generally ranging from three to five years
for tenant space under 5,000 square feet. Leases greater than 10,000 square feet
generally have lease terms in excess of five years, mostly comprised of anchor
tenants. Many of the anchor leases contain provisions allowing the tenant the
option of extending the term of the lease at expiration. The leases provide for
the monthly payment in advance of fixed minimum rentals, additional rents
calculated as a percentage of the tenant's sales, the tenant's pro rata share of
real estate taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance expenses, and
reimbursement for utility costs if not directly metered.





Item 2. Properties (continued)

        The following table sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for the
        next ten years, assuming no tenants renew their leases:



(1) leased currently under month to month rent or in process of renewal
(2) total minimum rent includes current minimum rent and future contractual rent
    steps for all properties, but excludes additional rent such as percentage
    rent, common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance
    reimbursements

         See the property table below and also see Item 7, Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further information about Regency's properties.







































(1)     Or latest renovation.
(2)     Includes development properties.  If development properties are
        excluded, the total percentage leased would be 95.4% for Company
        shopping centers.
(3)     Property under development or redevelopment.
(4)     Tenant owns its own building.
(5)     Owned by a partnership with outside investors in which Regency Centers,
        L.P. or an affiliate is the general partner.





Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         We are a party to various legal proceedings, which arise, in the
ordinary course of our business. We are not currently involved in any litigation
nor to our knowledge, is any litigation threatened against us, the outcome of
which would, in our judgment based on information currently available to us,
have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of
operations.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         No matters were submitted for stockholder vote during the fourth
quarter of 2003.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

         Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
under the symbol "REG". We currently have approximately 7,000 shareholders. The
following table sets forth the high and low prices and the cash dividends
declared on our common stock by quarter for 2003 and 2002.



         We intend to pay regular quarterly distributions to our common
stockholders. Future distributions will be declared and paid at the discretion
of our Board of Directors, and will depend upon cash generated by operating
activities, our financial condition, capital requirements, annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and such other factors as our Board of Directors deem relevant. We
anticipate that for the foreseeable future, cash available for distribution will
be greater than earnings and profits due to non-cash expenses, primarily
depreciation and amortization, to be incurred by us. Distributions by us to the
extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income
tax purposes will be taxable to stockholders as either ordinary dividend income
or capital gain income if so declared by us. Distributions in excess of earnings
and profits generally will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Such
distributions have the effect of deferring taxation until the sale of a
stockholder's common stock. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we
must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our taxable
income. Under certain circumstances, which we do not expect to occur, we could
be required to make distributions in excess of cash available for distributions
in order to meet such requirements. We currently maintain the Regency Centers
Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan which enables our
stockholders to automatically reinvest distributions, as well as, make voluntary
cash payments towards the purchase of additional shares.

         Under our loan agreement for our line of credit, distributions may not
exceed 95% of Funds from Operations ("FFO") based on the immediately preceding
four quarters. FFO is defined in accordance with the NAREIT definition available
on their website at www.nareit.com. Also, in the event of any monetary default,
we may not make distributions to stockholders.

        There were no sales of unregistered securities during the periods
covered by this report other than a total of 135,985 shares issued during 2003
on a one-for-one basis for exchangeable common units of our operating
partnership, Regency Centers L.P., pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act of 1933.



Item 6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data
         (in thousands, except per share data and number of properties)

      The following table sets forth Selected Consolidated Financial Data for
Regency on a historical basis for the five years ended December 31, 2003. This
information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements of Regency (including the related notes thereto) and Management's
Discussion and Analysis of the Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
each included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This historical Selected Consolidated
Financial Data has been derived from the audited consolidated financial
statements.






Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations

Introduction and Strategic Overview
- -----------------------------------
         Regency is a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which
began operations in 1993. Our primary operating and investment goal is long-term
growth in earnings per share and total shareholder return by focusing on a
strategy of owning and operating grocery anchored shopping centers that are
anchored by market-leading supermarkets, and that are located in areas with
attractive demographics.

         Currently, our real estate investments before depreciation total $3.2
billion with 265 shopping centers in 22 states. At December 31, 2003, our gross
leasable area ("GLA") totaled 30.3 million square feet and was 92.2% leased.
Geographically, 19.6% of our GLA is located in Florida, 19.5% in California,
16.8% in Texas, 6.6% in Georgia, 6.3% in Ohio, and 31.2% spread throughout 17
other states. We own and operate our shopping centers through our operating
partnership, Regency Centers, L.P. ("RCLP"), in which we currently own 98% of
the operating partnership units. Regency's operating, investing and financing
activities are generally performed by RCLP.

         We earn revenues and generate operating cash flow by leasing space to
grocers and retail side-shop tenants in our shopping centers. We experience
growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates at currently owned
shopping centers, and by developing new shopping centers. A neighborhood center
is a convenient, cost-effective distribution platform for food retailers.
Grocery anchored centers generate substantial daily traffic and offer
sustainable competitive advantages to their tenants. This high traffic generates
increased sales, thereby driving higher occupancy, rental rates and rental-rate
growth for Regency, which we expect to sustain our growth in earnings per share
and increase the value of our portfolio over the long term.

         We seek a range of strong national, regional and local specialty
tenants, for the same reason that we choose to anchor our centers with leading
grocers. We have created a formal partnering process -- the Premier Customer
Initiative ("PCI") -- to promote mutually beneficial relationships with our
non-grocer specialty retailers. The objective of PCI is for Regency to build a
base of specialty tenants who represent the "best-in-class" operators in their
respective merchandising categories. Such tenants reinforce the consumer appeal
and other strengths of a center's grocery anchor, help to stabilize a center's
occupancy, reduce re-leasing downtime, reduce tenant turnover and yield higher
sustainable rents.

         We primarily grow our shopping center portfolio through new shopping
center development, where we acquire the land and construct the building.
Development is customer-driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from
the anchor before we start construction. Developments serve the growth needs of
our grocery and specialty retail customers, result in modern shopping centers
with long-term leases from the grocery anchors and produce attractive returns on
our invested capital. This development process can require up to 36 months from
initial land or redevelopment acquisition through construction, lease-up and
stabilization of rental income, depending upon the size of the project.
Generally, anchor tenants begin operating their stores prior to construction
completion of the entire center, resulting in rental income during the
development phase.

         We intend to maintain a conservative capital structure to fund our
growth programs without compromising our investment-grade ratings. Our approach
is founded on our self-funding business model. This model utilizes center
"recycling" as a key component. Our recycling strategy calls for us to re-deploy
the proceeds from the sales of properties into new higher quality developments
that we expect to generate sustainable revenue growth and more attractive
returns on invested capital. Our commitment to maintaining a high-quality
shopping center portfolio dictates that we continually assess the value of all
of our properties and sell those that no longer meet our long-term investment
standards.

         Joint venturing of shopping centers also provides us with a capital
source for new development, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset
and property management services. As asset manager, we are engaged by our
partners to apply similar operating, investment, and capital strategies to the
portfolios owned by the joint ventures. Joint ventures grow their shopping
center investments through acquisitions from third parties or direct purchases
of shopping centers from Regency. Although selling properties to joint ventures
reduces our ownership interest, we continue to share in the risks and rewards of
centers that meet our long-term investment strategy. Regency is not subject to
liability and has no obligations or guarantees of the joint ventures beyond its
ownership percentage.


         We have identified certain significant risks and challenges affecting
our industry, and we are addressing them accordingly. A further economic
downturn could result in declines in occupancy levels at our shopping centers,
which would reduce our rental revenues; however, we believe that our investment
focus on grocery anchored shopping centers that provide daily necessities will
minimize the impact of a downturn in the economy. Increased competition from
super-centers such as Wal-Mart could result in grocery anchor closings or
consolidations in the grocery store industry. We currently have 37 shopping
centers, less than 15% of our portfolio, that operate within three miles of a
super-center and we closely monitor their performance and tenants' sales. A slow
down in our shopping center development program would reduce operating revenues
and gains from sales. We believe that developing shopping centers in markets
with strong demographics with leading grocery stores will enable us to continue
to maintain our development program at historical averages.

Shopping Center Portfolio
- -------------------------

         The following table summarizes general operating statistics related to
our shopping center portfolio, including properties partially owned in joint
ventures that we use to evaluate and monitor our performance:



          A list of our shopping centers summarized by state and in order of
largest holdings follows, including those properties that we partially own in
joint ventures:




          The following summarizes the four largest grocery tenants occupying
our shopping centers, including those partially owned through joint ventures at
December 31, 2003:

        (a)           Includes stores owned by the grocery anchor that are
                      attached to our centers.
        (b)           GLA includes 100% of the GLA in unconsolidated joint
                      ventures.  Annualized base rent includes only Regency's
                      pro-rata share of rent from unconsolidated joint ventures.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------
General
- -------
         We expect that cash generated from revenues will provide the necessary
funds on a short-term basis to pay our operating expenses, interest expense,
scheduled principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, recurring capital
expenditures necessary to maintain our shopping centers properly, and
distributions to stock and unit holders. Net cash provided by operating
activities was $227.9 million, $188.7 million and $185.9 million for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. During 2003, 2002, and
2001, we incurred capital expenditures of $13.5 million, $15.0 million and $11.8
million to maintain our shopping centers, paid scheduled principal payments of
$13.5 million, $5.6 million and $6.1 million to our lenders, and paid dividends
and distributions of $157.9 million, $158.5 million and $154.4 million to our
share and unit holders, respectively.

         Although base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants
who file bankruptcy are able to cancel their leases and close the related
stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our
shopping centers files bankruptcy and cancels its leases, we could experience a
significant reduction in our revenues. We are not currently aware of any current
or pending bankruptcy of any of our tenants that would cause a significant
reduction in our revenues, and no tenant represents more than 10% of our annual
base rental revenues.

         We expect to meet long-term capital requirements for maturing preferred
units and debt, the acquisition of real estate, and the renovation or
development of shopping centers from: (i) residual cash generated from operating
activities after the payments described above, (ii) proceeds from the sale of
real estate, (iii) joint venturing of real estate, (iv) refinancing of debt, and
(v) equity raised in the private or public markets. Additionally, the Company
has the right to call and repay, at par, outstanding preferred units five years
after their issuance date, at the Company's discretion.

         We intend to continue to grow our portfolio through new development and
acquisitions, either directly or through our joint venture relationships.
Because development and acquisition activities are discretionary in nature, they
are not expected to burden the capital resources we have currently available for
liquidity requirements. Capital necessary to complete developments-in-process
are funded from our line of credit. Regency expects that cash provided by
operating activities, unused amounts available under our line of credit and cash
reserves are adequate to meet short-term and committed long-term liquidity
requirements.

Shopping Center Development, Acquisitions and Sales
- ---------------------------------------------------
         At December 31, 2003, we had 36 projects under construction or
undergoing major renovations, which, when completed, we expect to represent an
investment of $693.9 million before the estimated reimbursement of certain
tenant-related costs and projected sales proceeds from adjacent land and
out-parcels of $122.7 million. Costs necessary to complete these developments
will be $273.1 million, are generally already committed as part of existing
construction contracts, and will be expended through 2006. These developments
are approximately 61% complete and 76% pre-leased. The costs necessary to
complete these developments will be funded from our line of credit which has a
commitment amount of $600 million and a balance of $195.0 million at December
31, 2003. During 2003, we started $300.3 million of new development based on
total costs that we expect to expend on these 18 centers through completion.
During 2002, we started $335.5 million of new development representing 21
centers.

         During 2003, we acquired four operating properties from third parties
for $75.4 million, representing 2.4% of our consolidated assets at December 31,
2003. These properties were acquired in existing investment markets, are grocery
anchored, and are owned entirely by Regency. Comparatively, we acquired five
operating properties during 2002 for $106.7 million, or 3.5% of consolidated
assets at December 31, 2002. These acquisitions did not have a significant
impact on operations during 2003 and 2002.

         During 2003, we sold 18 retail centers to third parties for $170.7
million, compared with 41 retail centers sold for $339.1 million during 2002 as
part of our asset recycling program. Of the centers sold in 2003, 14 were
operating during 2003 and are included in discontinued operations in our
accompanying consolidated statements of operations. All 41 centers sold during
2002 were operating and are included in discontinued operations. We also sold
partial interests in 12 properties both in 2003 and 2002 to joint ventures for
$232.9 million and $164.8 million, respectively, discussed further below under
Investments in Real Estate Partnerships. We have an inventory of land
out-parcels adjacent to our shopping centers that we routinely develop, lease,
or sell. During 2003, sales related to out-parcels were $55.7 million compared
to $31.8 million in 2002. Total gains from sales of real estate included in
continuing operations and discontinued operations were $64.7 million in 2003,
compared with $37.0 million in 2002.

         Investments in new developments and acquisitions, and proceeds from the
sale of properties to third parties or partial sales to joint ventures are
included in investing activities in the accompanying consolidated statements of
cash flows. Net cash used in investing activities was $96.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003. This compares with net cash provided by investing
activities of $95.0 million in 2002 and net cash used in investing activities of
$164.1 million in 2001.

Investments in Real Estate Partnerships
- ---------------------------------------

       At December 31, 2003, we had investments in real estate partnerships of
$140.5 million, primarily comprised of two partnerships, a 20% investment
interest in Columbia Regency Retail Partners, LLC ("Columbia"), a joint
venture with the Oregon State Treasury, and a 25% investment interest in
Macquarie CountryWide-Regency, LLC ("MCWR"), a joint venture with an affiliate
of Macquarie CountryWide Trust of Australia, a Sydney, Australia-based
property trust. The purpose of these partnerships is to invest in retail
shopping centers, and we have been engaged by our partners to provide asset
and property management services.

       The following is a summary of unconsolidated combined assets and
liabilities of these partnerships, and our pro-rata share at December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001 ($ amounts in thousands):

         At December 31, 2003, Columbia owned 13 shopping centers and had total
assets of $295.0 million. Columbia acquired two shopping centers for $39.1
million from third parties during 2003 and sold one shopping center to a third
party for $46.2 million. During 2002, Columbia acquired one shopping center from
us for $19.5 million, for which we received cash of $15.6 million.

         At December 31, 2003, MCWR owned 26 shopping centers and had total
assets of $412.4 million. During 2003, MCWR acquired 12 shopping centers from
Regency for $232.9 million, for which we received cash of $79.4 million, and
notes receivable of $95.3 million with a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5%, net of our 25%
equity contribution of $58.2 million. During 2003, MCWR repaid $69.3 million of
the notes and in February 2004, MCWR repaid an additional $10.5 million. MCWR is
currently in the process of placing third party, fixed-rate mortgages on certain


properties, the proceeds of which will be used to repay the remaining balance of
$15.5 million. We recognized gains on these sales of $25.7 million recorded as
gain from sale of operating or development properties. During 2002, MCWR
acquired 11 shopping centers from the Company for $145.2 million, for which we
received net proceeds of $83.8 million and a note receivable of $25.1 million,
net of our 25% equity contribution of $36.3 million. MCWR repaid the note
receivable during 2003. The Company recognized gains on these sales of $11.1
million. During 2003, MCWR sold two shopping centers to third parties for $20.1
million.

         Recognition of gain from sales to joint ventures is recorded on only
that portion of the sales not attributable to our ownership interest. The gains
and operations are not recorded as discontinued operations because of our
continuing involvement in these shopping centers. Columbia and MCWR intend to
continue to acquire retail shopping centers, some of which they may acquire
directly from us. For those properties acquired from third parties, we are
required to contribute our pro-rata share of the purchase price to the
partnership.

Debt and Equity
- ---------------
         Outstanding debt at December 31, 2003 and 2002 consists of the
following (in thousands):

         Mortgage loans are secured and may be prepaid, but could be subject to
yield maintenance premiums. Mortgage loans are generally due in monthly
installments of interest and principal, and mature over various terms through
2023. Variable interest rates on mortgage loans are currently based on LIBOR,
plus a spread in a range of 125 to 150 basis points. Fixed interest rates on
mortgage loans range from 5.65% to 9.5%.

         We have an unsecured line of credit (the "Line") with a commitment from
our banks of $600 million and a current balance of $195 million. Interest rates
paid on the Line, which are based on LIBOR plus .85%, were 1.975% and 2.288%, on
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The spread that we pay on the Line is
dependent upon maintaining specific investment-grade ratings. We are also
required to comply, and are in compliance, with certain financial and other
covenants customary with this type of unsecured financing. The Line is used
primarily to finance the development of real estate, but is also available for
general working capital purposes. The Line matures on April 30, 2004, but
contains a one-year extension option. We have executed a commitment with the
lead bank under the Line and expect to renew it for a term of three years from
the original maturity date.

         As of December 31, 2003, scheduled principal repayments on notes
payable and the Line were as follows (in thousands):

         Our investments in real estate partnerships had unconsolidated notes
and mortgage loans payable of $322.2 million at December 31, 2003, and the
Company's proportionate share of these loans was $74.4 million. We do not
guarantee any debt of these partnerships beyond our ownership percentage.

         We are exposed to capital market risk such as changes in interest
rates. In order to manage the volatility related to interest-rate risk, we
originate new debt with fixed interest rates, or we consider entering into
interest-rate hedging arrangements. At December 31, 2003, 84% of our total debt
had fixed interest rates, compared with 92% in 2002. We intend to limit the
percentage of variable interest- rate debt to be no more than 30% of total debt,
which we believe to be an acceptable risk. Based upon the variable interest-rate
debt outstanding at December 31, 2003, if variable interest rates were to
increase by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase by $2.4 million. We
do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
purposes. We account for derivative instruments under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" as amended ("Statement 133").

         We have $200 million of 7.4% unsecured debt maturing April 1, 2004. We
currently expect to refinance at least $150 million with comparable securities
at the maturity date with terms up to 10 years, but at a lower fixed interest
rate, and repay any remaining amounts from the Line. In July and September 2003,
we entered into two forward-starting interest-rate swaps of $96.5 million and
$47.7 million, respectively. We designated the aggregate $144.2 million swaps as
a hedge to fix the rate on our financing, which we expect to complete on April
1, 2004. The fair value of the swaps was an asset of $174,747 as of December 31,
2003, and is recorded in other assets in our accompanying consolidated balance
sheet. The swaps qualify for hedge accounting under Statement 133; therefore, we
record changes in fair value through other comprehensive income. No hedge
ineffectiveness has been incurred or recognized to date on these swaps. Amounts
that we have reported in accumulated other comprehensive income related to these
swaps will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on
the related debt.

         On August 18, 2003, we issued 3,600,000 shares of common stock at
$35.96 per share in a public offering. The proceeds of $129.5 million net of
offering costs were used to redeem $80 million, or 100%, of the Series A
Preferred Units and to reduce the outstanding balance of the Line. At the time
of the redemption, $1.2 million of previously deferred costs related to the
original preferred units' issuance were expensed in the consolidated statement
of operations as a component of minority interest preferred units.

         On June 24, 2003, we purchased 4,606,880 shares of common stock for
$150 million from Security Capital pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement
dated June 11, 2003. The purchase was funded from the Line.

         On April 3, 2003, we received proceeds from a $75 million offering of
3,000,000 depositary shares representing Series 3 Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock. The depositary shares are not convertible into common stock of
the Company and are redeemable at par upon Regency's election on or after April
3, 2008, pay a 7.45% annual dividend and have a liquidation value of $25 per
depositary share.

         In March 2003, we redeemed $35 million of Series C 9% Preferred Units
and $40 million of Series E 8.75% Preferred Units in a negotiated transaction.
The redemptions were portions of each series, and we paid a 1% premium on the
face value of the redeemed units totaling $750,000. At the time of redemption,
the premium and $1.9 million of previously deferred costs related to the
original preferred units' issuance were expensed in the consolidated statement
of operations as a component of minority interest of preferred units. The
redemption was funded from proceeds from the Line.

         We have issued Preferred Units in various amounts since 1998, the net
proceeds of which we used to reduce the balance of the Line. We sold the issues
primarily to institutional investors in private placements. The Preferred Units,
which may be called by us after certain dates ranging from 2004 to 2005, have no
stated maturity or mandatory redemption, and they pay a cumulative, quarterly
dividend at fixed rates ranging from 8.75% to 9.125%. At any time after 10 years
from the date of issuance, the Preferred Units may be exchanged by the holders
for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at an exchange rate of one share for
one unit. The Preferred Units and the related Preferred Stock are not
convertible into Regency common stock. At December 31, 2003 and 2002 the face
value of total Preferred Units issued was $229 million and $384 million,
respectively, with an average fixed distribution rate of 8.88% and 8.72%,
respectively. Included in Preferred Units are original issuance costs of $5.5
million that will be expensed as the underlying Preferred Units are redeemed in
the future.

         In summary, net cash used in financing activities related to the debt
and equity activity discussed above was $158.2 million, $255.0 million and $94.9
million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
- ------------------------------------------

         Knowledge about our accounting policies is necessary for a complete
understanding of our financial results, and discussions and analysis of these
results. The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make
certain estimates that impact the balance of assets and liabilities at a
financial statement date and the reported amount of income and expenses during a
financial reporting period. These accounting estimates are based upon our
judgments and are considered to be critical because of their significance to the
financial statements and the possibility that future events may differ from
those judgments, or that the use of different assumptions could result in
materially different estimates. We review these estimates on a periodic basis to
ensure reasonableness. However, the amounts we may ultimately realize could
differ from such estimates.

         Capitalization of Costs - We have an investment services group with an
established infrastructure that supports the due diligence, land acquisition,
construction, leasing and accounting of our development properties. All direct
costs related to these activities are capitalized. Included in these costs are
interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction, as well as
estimates for the portion of internal costs that are incremental and deemed
directly or indirectly related to our development activity. If future accounting
standards limit the amount of internal costs that may be capitalized, or if our
development activity were to decline significantly without a proportionate
decrease in internal costs, we could incur a significant increase in our
operating expenses.

         Valuation of Real Estate Investments - Our long-lived assets, primarily
real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. We review
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate such an evaluation is warranted. The review involves a number of
assumptions and estimates used to determine whether impairment exists. Depending
on the asset, we use varying methods such as i) estimating future cash flows,
ii) determining resale values by market, or iii) applying a capitalization rate
to net operating income using prevailing rates in a given market. These methods
of determining fair value can fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of
factors, including changes in the general economy of those markets in which we
operate, tenant credit quality and demand for new retail stores. If we determine
that impairment exists due to our inability to recover an asset's carrying
value, a provision for loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying value
exceeds estimated fair value.

         Discontinued Operations - The application of current accounting
principles that govern the classification of any of our properties as held for
sale on the balance sheet, or the presentation of results of operations and
gains on the sale of these properties as discontinued, requires management to
make certain significant judgments. In evaluating whether a property meets the
criteria set forth by Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement
No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets"
("Statement 144"), the Company makes a determination as to the point in time
that it can be reasonably certain that a sale will be consummated. Given the
nature of all real estate sales contracts, it is not unusual for such contracts
to allow potential buyers a period of time to evaluate the property prior to
formal acceptance of the contract. In addition, certain other matters critical
to the final sale, such as financing arrangements, often remain pending even
upon contract acceptance. As a result, properties under contract may not close
within the expected time period, if at all. Due to these uncertainties, it is
not likely that the Company can meet the criteria of Statement 144 prior to the
sale formally closing. Therefore, any properties categorized as held for sale
represent only those properties that management has determined are probable to
close within the requirements set forth in Statement 144. The Company also makes
judgments regarding the extent of involvement it will have with a property
subsequent to its sale, in order to determine if the results of operations and
gain/loss on sale should be reflected as discontinued. Consistent with Statement
144, any property sold to an entity in which the Company has significant
continuing involvement (most often joint ventures) are not considered to be
discontinued. In addition, any property which the Company sells to an unrelated
third party, but retains a property or asset management function, is also not
considered discontinued. Thus, only properties sold, or to be sold, to unrelated
third parties for which the Company, in its judgment, has no continuing
involvement are classified as discontinued.




         Income Tax Status - The prevailing assumption underlying the operation
of our business is that we will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT,
defined under the Internal Revenue Code. We are required to meet certain income
and asset tests on a periodic basis to ensure that we continue to qualify as a
REIT. As a REIT, we are allowed to reduce taxable income by all or a portion of
our distributions to stockholders. We evaluate the transactions that we enter
into and determine their impact on our REIT status. Determining our taxable
income, calculating distributions, and evaluating transactions requires us to
make certain judgments and estimates as to the positions we take in our
interpretation of the Internal Revenue Code. Because many types of transactions
are susceptible to varying interpretations under federal and state income tax
laws and regulations, our positions are subject to change at a later date upon
final determination by the taxing authorities.



New Accounting Pronouncements
- -----------------------------

        In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46")
(revised December 2003 ("FIN 46R")), "Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities", which addresses how a business enterprise should evaluate whether it
has controlling financial interest in an entity through means other than voting
rights and accordingly should consolidate the entity. FIN 46R replaces FIN 46,
which was issued in January 2003. FIN 46R is applicable immediately to a
variable interest entity created after January 31, 2003 and as of the first
interim period ending after March 15, 2004 to those variable interest entities
created before February 1, 2003 and not already consolidated under FIN 46 in
previously issued financial statements. We did not create any variable interest
entities after January 31, 2003. We have analyzed the applicability of this
interpretation to our structures created before February 1, 2003 and we do not
believe its adoption will have a material effect on our results of operations.

        In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting Standards No. 150,
"Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both
Liabilities and Equity" ("Statement 150"). Statement 150 affects the accounting
for certain financial instruments, including requiring companies having
consolidated entities with specified termination dates to treat minority
owners' interests in such entities as liabilities in an amount based on the
fair value of the entities. Although Statement 150 was originally effective
July 1, 2003, the FASB has indefinitely deferred certain provisions related to
classification and measurement requirements for mandatorily redeemable
financial instruments that become subject to Statement 150 solely as a result
of consolidation including minority interests of entities with specified
termination dates. As a result, Statement 150 has no impact on the Company's
consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003.

        At December 31, 2003, we held a majority interest in five consolidated
entities with specified termination dates ranging from 2012 to 2049. The
minority owners' interests in these entities are to be settled upon termination
by distribution of either cash or specific assets of the underlying entities.
The estimated fair value of minority interests in these entities was $8.5
million as compared to the carrying value of $4.7 million. We have no other
financial instruments that currently are affected by Statement 150.

Results from Operations
- -----------------------

Comparison of 2003 to 2002

         At December 31, 2003, we were operating or developing 265 shopping
centers. We identify our shopping centers as either development properties or
stabilized properties. Development properties are defined as properties that are
in the construction and initial lease-up process and are not yet fully leased
(fully leased generally means greater than 93% leased) or occupied. Stabilized
properties are those properties that are generally greater than 93% leased and,
if they were developed, are more than three years beyond their original
development start date. At December 31, 2003, we had 229 stabilized shopping
centers that were 95.4% leased.

         Our revenues increased by $24.0 million, or 7%, to $377.6 million in
2003. This increase was related to changes in occupancy from 91.5% to 92.2% for
the combined portfolio of stabilized and development properties, growth in
re-leasing rental rates, and revenues from new developments commencing
operations in 2003, net of a reduction in revenues from properties sold. In
2003, our rental rates grew by 9.5% from renewal leases and new leases replacing
previously occupied spaces in the stabilized properties. In addition to
collecting minimum rent from our tenants for the GLA that they lease from us, we
also collect contingent rent based upon tenant sales, which we refer to as
percentage rent. Tenants are also responsible for reimbursing us for their
pro-rata share of the expenses associated with operating our shopping centers.
In 2003, our minimum rent increased by $12.7 million, or 5%, and our recoveries
from tenants increased $4.6 million, or 6%. Percentage rent was $4.5 million in
2003 compared with $5.2 million in 2002, the reduction primarily related to
renewing anchor tenant leases with minimum rent increases which had a
corresponding reduction to percentage rent.




         Our operating expenses increased by $20.9 million, or 12%, to $196.9
million in 2003. Our combined operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes
increased by $5.7 million, or 7%, during 2003 to $93.0 million. This increase
was primarily due to new developments that incurred operating expenses for only
a portion of the previous year and general increases in operating expenses on
the stabilized properties. Our general and administrative expenses were $24.2
million during 2003, compared with $22.8 million in 2002, or 6% higher, a result
of general salary and benefit increases. Our depreciation and amortization
expense increased $6.9 million during the current year related to new
development properties placed in service during 2003.

         Our net interest expense decreased to $84.0 million in 2003 from $84.2
million in 2002. Average interest rates on our outstanding debt declined to
6.64% at December 31, 2003 compared with 6.93% at December 31, 2002, primarily
due to reductions in the LIBOR rate. Our average fixed interest rates were 7.54%
at December 31, 2003, compared with 7.51% at December 31, 2002. Our weighted
average outstanding debt during 2003 was $1.436 billion compared with $1.392
billion in 2002.



         We account for profit recognition on sales of real estate in accordance
with FASB Statement No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate." Profits from
sales of real estate will not be recognized by us unless a sale has been
consummated; the buyer's initial and continuing investment is adequate to
demonstrate a commitment to pay for the property; we have transferred to the
buyer the usual risks and rewards of ownership; and we do not have substantial
continuing involvement with the property. Gains from the sale of operating and
development properties were $48.7 million in 2003 related to the sale of 16
properties for $299.9 million. During 2002, we recorded gains of $20.9 million
related to the sale of 12 properties for $164.8 million. These gains are
included in continuing operations rather than discontinued operations because
they were either development properties that had no operating income, or they
were sold to joint ventures where we have a continuing minority investment.

         We review our real estate portfolio for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the
carrying amount of an asset. We determine whether impairment has occurred by
comparing the property's carrying value to an estimate of fair value based upon
methods described in our Critical Accounting Policies. In the event a property
is impaired, we write down the asset to fair value for "held-and-used" assets
and to fair value less costs to sell for "held-for-sale" assets. During the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we recorded provisions for losses of
approximately $2.0 million and $4.4 million, respectively, of which $719,345 and
$3.3 million, respectively, were reclassed to operating income from discontinued
operations after the related properties were sold.

         Our income from discontinued operations was $19.6 million in 2003
related to 14 centers sold to third parties for $103.7 million, which produced
gains on sale of $16.0 million. In compliance with the adoption of SFAS No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("Statement
144") in January 2002, if we sell an asset in the current year, we are required
to reclassify its operating income into discontinued operations for all prior
periods. This practice results in a reclassification of amounts previously
reported as continuing operations into discontinued operations. Reclassified
operating income from discontinued operations was $14.8 million in 2002,
compared with $10.0 million previously reported for 2002, a result of
reclassifying the historical operations of the properties sold in 2003. During
2002, we sold 41 properties for $339.1 million to third parties, which resulted
in a gain of $16.1 million. Our operating income and gains on sales from
discontinued operations are shown net of minority interest of exchangeable
partnership units totaling $461,568 and $782,799 for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

         Net income for common stockholders was $126.6 million in 2003, compared
with $107.7 million in 2002, or an 18% increase for the reasons previously
discussed. Diluted earnings per share were $2.12 in 2003, compared with $1.84 in
2002, or 15% higher, related to the increase in net income offset by an increase
in weighted average common shares of 803,719 shares.

Comparison of 2002 to 2001

         At December 31, 2002, we were operating or developing 262 shopping
centers, and we had 228 stabilized shopping centers that were 94.8% leased. Our
revenues increased $34.9 million, or 11%, to $353.7 million in 2002. This
increase was due primarily to growth in re-leasing rental rates and revenue from
new developments commencing operations in 2002, net of a reduction in revenues
from properties sold. In 2002, our rental rates grew by 10.8%. Our minimum rent
increased by $23.5 million, or 10%, and our recoveries from tenants increased by
$8.3 million, or 12%. Our percentage rent was $5.2 million in 2002 compared with
$5.6 million in 2001 the reduction primarily related to renewing anchor tenant
leases with minimum rent increases which had a corresponding reduction to
percentage rent, and in certain cases reduced tenant sales.

         Our operating expenses increased by $11.8 million, or 7%, to $176.1
million in 2002. Our combined operating, maintenance, and real estate taxes
increased by $8.4 million, or 11%, during 2002 to $87.3 million. The increase
was primarily due to new developments that incurred expenses for only a portion
of the previous year and general increases in operating expenses on our
stabilized properties. Our general and administrative expenses were $22.8
million during 2002, compared with $19.8 million in 2001, or 15% higher, as a
result of opening several branch offices in new markets and general salary and
benefit increases. Our depreciation and amortization expense increased by $7.4
million during 2002 related to new development properties placed in service
during 2002 and initial depreciation of operating properties previously
classified as "held for sale" that no longer meet the criteria under Statement
144.

         Gains from the sale of our operating and development properties were
$20.9 million in 2002 related to the sale of 12 properties for $164.8 million.
During 2001, we recorded gains of $28.8 million related to the sale of 13
properties for $123.0 million. These gains are included in continuing operations
rather than discontinued operations because they were either development
properties that had no operating income, or they were sold to joint ventures
where we have a continuing minority investment.

         Our net interest expense increased to $84.2 million in 2002 from $67.6
million in 2001, or 25%. This increase was primarily due to higher average
outstanding debt balances and lower interest capitalization on new developments.
Average interest rates on our outstanding debt declined to 6.93% at December 31,
2002, from 7.27% at December 31, 2001.

         Our income from discontinued operations was $30.9 million in 2002
compared with $22.7 million in 2001. Income from discontinued operations
includes gains from the sale of properties of $16.1 million in 2002 as
previously discussed. Statement 144 was implemented during 2002, and therefore,
no gains or losses from the sales of assets in 2001 were reported under
discontinued operations in 2001. Operating income and gains on sales included in
discontinued operations are shown net of minority interest of exchangeable
partnership units totaling $782,799 and $586,856 for the years ended December
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

         Net income for common stockholders was $107.7 million in 2002, compared
with $97.7 million in 2001, or a 10% increase for the reasons previously
discussed. Diluted earnings per share were $1.84 in 2002, compared with $1.69 in
2001, or 9% higher, as a result of the increase in net income offset by an
increase in weighted average common shares of 1,159,955 shares.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

         We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations and we
are primarily concerned with dry cleaning plants that currently operate or have
operated at our shopping centers in the past. We believe that the tenants who
currently operate plants do so in accordance with current laws and regulations.
Generally, we use all legal means to cause tenants to remove dry cleaning plants
from our shopping centers or convert them to environmentally approved systems.
Where available, we have applied and been accepted into state-sponsored
environmental programs. We have a blanket environmental insurance policy that
covers us against third-party liabilities and remediation costs on shopping
centers that currently have no known environmental contamination. We have also
placed environmental insurance, where possible, on specific properties with
known contamination, in order to mitigate our environmental risk. We believe
that the ultimate disposition of currently known environmental matters will not
have a material effect on Regency's financial position, liquidity, or
operations; however, we can give no assurance that existing environmental
studies with respect to our shopping centers have revealed all potential
environmental liabilities; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not
create any material environmental condition not known to us; that the current
environmental condition of the shopping centers will not be affected by tenants
and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by unrelated third
parties; or that changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or
their interpretation will not result in additional environmental liability to
us.

Inflation
- ---------

         Inflation has remained relatively low and has had a minimal impact on
the operating performance of our shopping centers; however, substantially all of
our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact
of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage
rentals based on tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise;
and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the
terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in
the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of our
leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits us to seek increased
rents upon re-rental at market rates. Most of our leases require tenants to pay
their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real
estate taxes, and insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to
increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.




Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market Risk
- -----------

         We are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the
variable interest rate on the line of credit and the refinancing of long-term
debt which currently contain fixed interest rates. Our interest-rate risk
management objective is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings
and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve these
objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into
derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps and treasury
locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial
instrument. We have no plans to enter into derivative or interest-rate
transactions for speculative purposes.

         Our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. The
table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average
interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in
thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and
sensitivity to interest-rate changes.




         As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2003, it does not consider those exposures or positions, which
could arise after that date. Moreover, because firm commitments are not
presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited
predictive value. As a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect
to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the
period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates.

Item 8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

          The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included
in this Report are listed in Part IV, Item 15(a).


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

          None.

Item 9a. Controls and Procedures

         Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's
management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness
of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this report, and, based on their evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
There were no significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors
that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their
evaluation.




                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         Information concerning the directors of Regency is incorporated herein
by reference to Regency's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. Information concerning the executive officers of Regency is
provided below.

         MARTIN E. STEIN, JR.  Mr. Stein, age 51, is Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of Regency.  He served as President of Regency from its
initial public offering in October 1993 until December 31, 1998. Mr. Stein also
served as President of Regency's predecessor real estate division since 1981,
and Vice President from 1976 to 1981. He is a director of Patriot Transportation
Holding, Inc., a publicly held transportation and real estate company, and Stein
Mart, Inc., a publicly held upscale discount retailer.

         MARY LOU FIALA.  Mrs. Fiala, age 52, became President and Chief
Operating Officer of Regency in January 1999.  Before joining Regency she was
Managing Director - Security Capital U.S. Realty Strategic Group from March 1997
to January 1999.  Mrs. Fiala was Senior Vice President and Director of Stores,
New England - Macy's East/Federated Department Stores from 1994 to March 1997.
From 1976 to 1994, Mrs. Fiala held various merchandising and store operations
positions with Macy's/Federated Department Stores.  Mrs. Fiala is a member of
the board of trustees of the International Council of Shopping Centers and the
University of North Florida Foundation.

         BRUCE M. JOHNSON.  Mr. Johnson, age 56, has been Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer of Regency since its initial public offering in October
1993.  Mr. Johnson also served as Executive Vice President of Regency's
predecessor real estate division from 1979 to 1993.  He is a director of Brooks
Rehabilitation Hospital, a private not for profit rehabilitation hospital, and
its private parent company Brooks Health Systems.

         Audit Committee, Independence, Financial Experts. Incorporated herein
by reference to Regency's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

         Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. Information
concerning filings under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the directors or
executive officers of Regency is incorporated herein by reference to Regency's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

         Code of Ethics. We have adopted a code of ethics applicable to our
principal executive officers, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer and persons performing similar functions. The text of this code of
ethics may be found on our web site at "www.regencycenters.com." We intend to
post notice of any waiver from, or amendment to, any provision of our code of
ethics on our web site.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.




Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
           Related Stockholder Matters Equity Compensation Plan Information




(1)      The weighted average exercise price excludes stock rights awards, which
         we sometimes refer to as unvested restricted stock.

(2)      Our Long Term Omnibus Plan, as amended and approved by shareholders at
         our 2003 annual meeting, provides for the issuance of up to 5.0 million
         shares of common stock or stock options for stock compensation;
         however, outstanding unvested grants plus vested but unexercised
         options cannot exceed 12% of our outstanding common stock and common
         stock equivalents (excluding options and other stock equivalents
         outstanding under the plan). The plan permits the grant of any type of
         share-based award but limits restricted stock awards, stock rights
         awards, performance shares, dividend equivalents settled in stock and
         other forms of stock grants to 2,750,000 shares, of which 2,360,564
         shares were available at December 31, 2003 for future issuance.

         Our Stock Grant Plan for non-key employees is the only equity
compensation plan that our shareholders have not approved. This Plan provides
for the award of a stock bonus of a specified value to each non-key employee on
the 1st anniversary date and every 5th anniversary date of their employment. For
example, each non-manager employee receives $500 in shares at the specified
anniversary dates based on the average fair market value of Regency's common
stock for the most recent quarter prior to the anniversary date. A total of
30,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under this Plan,
of which 10,395 shares were available for issuance at December 31, 2003.

         Information about security ownership is incorporated herein by
reference to Regency's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

         Incorporated herein by reference to Regency's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to
its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.




                                     PART IV

Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

         (a)    Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

                Regency's 2003 financial statements and financial statement
                schedule, together with the report of KPMG LLP are listed on the
                index immediately preceding the financial statements at the end
                of this report.

         (b)    Reports on Form 8-K:

                Form 8-K dated November 4, 2003 furnishing Regency's earnings
                release for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 and
                supplemental information.

         (c)    Exhibits:

3.       Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

                (i)     Restated Articles of Incorporation of Regency Centers
                        Corporation as amended to date.

                (ii)    Restated Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Company's
                        Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2000).

4.       (a)    See exhibits 3(i) and 3(ii) for provisions of the Articles of
                Incorporation and Bylaws of Regency Centers Corporation defining
                rights of security holders.

         (b)    Indenture dated July 20, 1998 between Regency Centers, L.P., the
                guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                registration statement on Form S-4 of Regency Centers, L.P., No.
                333-63723).

         (c)    Indenture dated March 9, 1999 between Regency Centers, L.P., the
                guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                registration statement on Form S-3 of Regency Centers, L.P., No.
                333-72899).

         (d)    Indenture dated December 5, 2001 between Regency Centers, L.P.,
                the guarantors named therein and First Union National Bank, as
                trustee (incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 4.4 of Form 8-K
                of Regency Centers, L.P. filed December 10, 2001, File No.
                0-24763).

10.      Material Contracts

        ~(a)    Regency Centers Corporation Amended and Restated Long Term
                Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix 1 to
                Regency's 2003 annual meeting proxy statement filed April 3,
                2003).

                (i)     Amendment No. 1 to Regency Centers Corporation Long Term
                        Omnibus Plan.

        ~(b)    Form of Stock Rights Award Agreement.

        ~(c)    Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement.

- --------------------------
~        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
         to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*        Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993
         (33-67258), and incorporated herein by reference




        ~(d)    Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002
                between the Company and Martin E. Stein, Jr.

        ~(e)    Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002
                between the Company and Mary Lou Fiala.

        ~(f)    Stock Rights Award Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002
                between the Company and Bruce M. Johnson.

       ~*(g)    Form of Option Award Agreement for Key Employees.

       ~*(h)    Form of Option Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors.

       ~*(i)    Form of Director/Officer Indemnification Agreement.

        ~(j)    Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan dated May 6,
                2003.

         (k)    Stock Grant Plan adopted on January 31, 1994 to grant stock to
                employees (incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q
                filed May 12, 1994).

         (l)    Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership
                of Regency Centers, L.P., as amended.

         (m)    Credit Agreement dated as of April 30, 2001 by and among Regency
                Centers, L.P., Regency, each of the financial institutions
                initially a signatory thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National
                Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of the
                Company's Form 10-Q filed August 14, 2001).

                (i)     Second Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of March
                        31, 2003, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                        the Company's Form 10-Q filed August 12, 2003).

        ~(n)    Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement
                dated as of March, 2002 by and between the Company and Martin E.
                Stein, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) of the
                Company's Form 10-K/A filed April 15, 2002).

        ~(o)    Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement
                dated as of March, 2002 by and between the Company and Mary Lou
                Fiala (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) of the
                Company's Form 10-K/A filed April 15, 2002).

        ~(p)    Amended and Restated Severance and Change of Control Agreement
                dated as of March, 2002 by and between the Company and Bruce M.
                Johnson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the
                Company's Form 10-K/A filed April 15, 2002).


- --------------------------
~       Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
        to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*       Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the Company's
        registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993 (33-67258),
        and incorporated herein by reference




21.      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.      Consent of KPMG LLP.

31.1     Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2     Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

31.3     Rule 13a-14 Certification of Chief Operating Officer.

32.1     Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

32.2     Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

32.3     Section 1350 Certification of Chief Operating Officer.
- --------------------------
~       Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant
        to S-K 601(10)(iii)(A).

*       Included as an exhibit to Pre-effective Amendment No. 2 to the Company's
        registration statement on Form S-11 filed October 5, 1993 (33-67258),
        and incorporated herein by reference








                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

Date:    March 9, 2004                  By:   /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                              ----------------------------------
                                               Martin E Stein, Jr., Chairman of
                                               the Board and Chief Executive
                                               Officer

Date:    March 9, 2004                  By:   /s/ Bruce M. Johnson
                                              ----------------------------------
                                               Bruce M. Johnson, Managing
                                               Director and Principal Financial
                                               Officer

Date:    March 9, 2004                  By:   /s/ J. Christian Leavitt
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                J. Christian Leavitt, Senior
                                                Vice President, Finance and
                                                Principal Accounting Officer

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Martin E. Stein, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Martin E. Stein, Jr., Chairman of the
                                        Board and Chief Executive Officer

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Mary Lou Fiala
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Mary Lou Fiala, President, Chief
                                        Operating Officer and Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Raymond L. Bank
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Raymond L. Bank, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ C. Ronald Blankenship
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        C. Ronald Blankenship, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ A. R. Carpenter
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        A. R. Carpenter, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ J. Dix Druce, Jr.
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        J. Dix Druce, Jr., Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Douglas S. Luke
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Douglas S. Luke, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ John C. Schweitzer
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        John C. Schweitzer, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Thomas G. Wattles
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Thomas G. Wattles, Director

Date:    March 9, 2004                  /s/ Terry N. Worrell
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Terry N. Worrell, Director







                           Regency Centers Corporation

                          Index to Financial Statements




Regency Centers Corporation

     Independent Auditors' Report                                            F-2
     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002            F-3
     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
         December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001                                   F-4
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
         ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001                              F-5
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001                                   F-6
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                              F-8

Financial Statement Schedule

     Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule           S-1

     Schedule III - Regency Centers Corporation Combined Real Estate
         and Accumulated Depreciation - December 31, 2003                    S-2



  All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or because
  information required therein is shown in the consolidated financial statements
  or notes thereto.



                                      F-1



                         Independent Auditors' Report


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regency Centers
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.




                                        /s/ KPMG LLP





Jacksonville, Florida
March 8, 2004


                                      F-2


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                           December 31, 2003 and 2002



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-3


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
              For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-4


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
              For the Years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                                      F-5


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001




                                      F-6


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
              For the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
                                    continued



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                      F-7


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 2003

1.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

         (a)   Organization and Principles of Consolidation

               The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
               accounts of Regency Centers Corporation, its wholly-owned
               qualified REIT subsidiaries, and partnerships in which it has
               voting control (the "Company" or "Regency"). All significant
               intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
               the consolidated financial statements. The Company owns
               approximately 98% of the outstanding common units ("Units") of
               Regency Centers, L.P. ("RCLP"). Regency invests in real estate
               through its partnership interest in RCLP. Generally all of the
               acquisition, development, operations and financing activities of
               Regency, including the issuance of Units and preferred units, are
               executed by RCLP. The equity interests of third parties held in
               RCLP and the majority owned or controlled partnerships are
               included in the consolidated financial statements as preferred or
               exchangeable operating partnership units and limited partners'
               interest in consolidated partnerships. The Company is a qualified
               real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which began operations in
               1993.

         (b)   Revenues

               The Company leases space to tenants under agreements with varying
               terms. Leases are accounted for as operating leases with minimum
               rent recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the
               lease regardless of when payments are due. Accrued rents are
               included in tenant receivables.

               Substantially all of the lease agreements contain provisions that
               grant additional rents based on tenants' sales volume (contingent
               or percentage rent) and reimbursement of the tenants' share of
               real estate taxes and certain common area maintenance ("CAM")
               costs. Percentage rents are recognized when the tenants achieve
               the specified targets as defined in their lease agreements.
               Recovery of real estate taxes and CAM costs are recognized as the
               respective costs are incurred in accordance with their lease
               agreements.

               The Company accounts for profit recognition on sales of real
               estate in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
               ("FASB") Statement No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate."
               In summary, profits from sales will not be recognized by the
               Company unless a sale has been consummated; the buyer's initial
               and continuing investment is adequate to demonstrate a commitment
               to pay for the property; the Company has transferred to the buyer
               the usual risks and rewards of ownership; and the Company does
               not have substantial continuing involvement with the property.

               The Company has been engaged by joint ventures to provide asset
               and property management services for their shopping centers. The
               fees are market based and generally calculated as a percentage of
               revenues earned and the estimated values of the properties and
               recognized as services are provided.


                                      F-8


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 2003

         (c)   Real Estate Investments

               Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost. All direct
               and indirect costs related to development activities are
               capitalized. Included in these costs are interest and real estate
               taxes incurred during construction as well as estimates for the
               portion of internal costs that are incremental, and deemed
               directly or indirectly related to development activity.
               Maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the useful
               lives of the respective assets are reflected in operating and
               maintenance expense. Depreciation is computed using the
               straight-line method over estimated useful lives of up to 40
               years for buildings and improvements, term of lease for tenant
               improvements, and three to seven years for furniture and
               equipment.

               The Company allocates the purchase price of acquired properties
               to land, buildings, and identifiable intangible assets based on
               their respective fair values. Management uses various methods to
               determine the fair value of acquired land and buildings,
               including replacement cost, discounted cash flow analysis, and
               comparable sales. Identifiable intangibles include amounts
               allocated to acquired leases for rental rates that are above or
               below market and the value of in-place leases. Intangibles
               related to in place leases are amortized over the weighted
               average life of the leases. Intangibles related to below market
               rate leases are amortized to minimum rent over the remaining
               terms of the underlying leases.

               On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, "Accounting
               for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("Statement
               144"). In accordance with Statement 144, operating properties
               held for sale includes only those properties available for
               immediate sale in their present condition and for which
               management believes it is probable that a sale of the property
               will be completed within one year. Operating properties held for
               sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to
               sell. Depreciation and amortization are suspended during the held
               for sale period.

               The Company reviews its real estate portfolio for impairment
               whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
               carrying amount may not be recoverable. Regency determines
               whether impairment has occurred by comparing the property's
               carrying value to an estimate of the future undiscounted cash
               flows. In the event impairment exists, assets are adjusted to
               fair value, for held and used assets, and fair value less costs
               to sell, for held for sale assets. During 2003, 2002 and 2001,
               the Company recorded a provision for loss of $2.0 million, $4.4
               million, and $1.6 million, respectively, to adjust operating
               properties to their estimated fair value. The fair values of the
               operating properties were determined by using prices for similar
               assets in their respective markets. The provision for loss on
               properties subsequently sold has been reclassified to
               discontinued operations.

               The Company's properties generally have operations and cash flows
               that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Company.
               In accordance with Statement 144, the operations and gains on
               sales reported in discontinued operations include those operating
               properties and properties in development that have been sold and
               for which operations and cash flows can be clearly distinguished.
               The operations from these properties have been eliminated from
               ongoing operations and the Company will not have continuing
               involvement after disposition. Prior periods have been restated
               to reflect the operations of these properties as discontinued
               operations. The operations and gains on sales of operating


                                      F-9


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 2003

               properties sold to real estate partnerships in which the Company
               has some continuing involvement are included in income from
               continuing operations.

         (d)   Income Taxes

               The Company believes it qualifies, and intends to continue to
               qualify, as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code").
               As a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable income by all
               or a portion of its distributions to stockholders. As
               distributions have exceeded taxable income, no provision for
               federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
               consolidated financial statements.

               Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends
               to stockholders, differs from net income reported for financial
               reporting purposes primarily because of differences in
               depreciable lives and cost bases of the shopping centers, as well
               as other timing differences.

               The net book basis of real estate assets exceeds the tax basis by
               approximately $113 million and $115 million at December 31, 2003
               and 2002, respectively, primarily due to the difference between
               the cost basis of the assets acquired and their carryover basis
               recorded for tax purposes.

               The following summarizes the tax status of dividends paid during
               the years ended December 31 (unaudited):



               The Company and Regency Realty Group, Inc., ("RRG"), a wholly-
               owned subsidiary of the Company, jointly elected for RRG to
               be treated as a Taxable REIT Subsidiary of the Company as defined
               in Section 856(l) of the Code. Such election is not expected to
               impact the tax treatment of either the Company or RRG.

               RRG is subject to federal and state income taxes and files
               separate tax returns.  RRG recognized a provision (benefit) for
               income taxes of $2.9 million, ($391,400), and $2 million in 2003,
               2002 and 2001, respectively.

       (e)     Deferred Costs

               Deferred costs include deferred leasing costs and deferred loan
               costs, net of amortization. Such costs are amortized over the
               periods through lease expiration or loan maturity. Deferred
               leasing costs consist of internal and external commissions
               associated with leasing the Company's shopping centers. Net
               deferred leasing costs were $28.0 million and $25.7 million at
               December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Deferred loan costs
               consist of initial direct and incremental costs associated with
               financing activities. Net deferred loan costs were $7.8 million
               and $10.9 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.


                                      F-10

                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 2003

       (f)     Earnings per Share and Treasury Stock

               Basic net income per share of common stock is computed based upon
               the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
               the year. Diluted net income per share also includes common share
               equivalents for stock options, exchangeable operating partnership
               units, and preferred stock when dilutive. See note 8 for the
               calculation of earnings per share.

               Repurchases of the Company's common stock (net of shares retired)
               are recorded at cost and are reflected as Treasury stock in the
               consolidated statements of stockholders' equity. Outstanding
               shares do not include treasury shares.

       (g)    Cash and Cash Equivalents

              Any instruments which have an original maturity of 90 days or less
              when purchased are considered cash equivalents. Cash distributions
              of normal operating earnings from investments in real estate
              partnerships and cash received from the sales of development
              properties are included in cash flows from operations in the
              consolidated statements of cash flows.

       (h)    Estimates

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
              accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
              America requires the Company's management to make estimates and
              assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
              liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities,
              at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
              of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
              results could differ from those estimates.

       (i)    Stock-Based Compensation

              In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for
              Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure" ("Statement
              148"). Statement 148 provides alternative methods of transition
              for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of
              accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition,
              Statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of Statement No.
              123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("Statement 123"),
              to require more prominent and frequent disclosures in financial
              statements about the effects of stock-based compensation. As
              permitted under Statement 123 and Statement 148, the Company will
              continue to follow the accounting guidelines pursuant to
              Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
              Issued to Employees" ("Opinion 25"), for stock-based compensation
              and to furnish the pro forma disclosures as required under
              Statement 148. See note 9 for further discussion of stock options.

              The Company has a Long-Term Omnibus Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to
              which the Board of Directors may grant stock options and other
              stock-based awards to officers, directors and other key employees.
              The Plan allows the Company to issue up to 5.0 million shares in
              the form of common stock or stock options, but limits the issuance
              of common stock excluding stock options to no more than 2.75
              million shares. At December 31, 2003, there were approximately
              4.61 million shares available for grant under the Plan either
              through options or restricted stock of which 2.36 million shares
              are limited to common stock awards other

                                      F-11

                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

         (i)   Stock-Based Compensation (continued)

               than stock options. The Plan also limits outstanding awards to no
               more than 12% of outstanding common stock. Stock options, granted
               under the Plan, are granted with an exercise price equal to the
               stock's fair market value at the date of grant. All stock options
               granted have ten year lives, contain vesting terms of one to five
               years from the date of grant and may have certain dividend
               equivalent rights. Restricted stock granted under the Plan,
               generally vests over a period of four years, although certain
               grants cliff vest after eight years, but contain a provision that
               allows for accelerated vesting over a shorter term if certain
               performance criteria are met. Compensation expense is measured at
               the grant date and recognized ratably over the vesting period.
               The Company considers the likelihood of meeting the performance
               criteria in determining the amount to expense on a periodic
               basis. In general, such criteria have been met, thus expense is
               recognized at a rate commensurate with the actual vesting period.
               Restricted stock grants also have certain dividend equivalent
               rights under the Plan, which are expensed in a manner similar to
               the underlying stock.

               The following table represents restricted stock granted during
               the respective years:

               The 4-year stock grants vest at the rate of 25% per year and the
               8-year stock grants cliff vest after eight years, but have the
               ability to accelerate vesting under the terms described above.
               Based upon restricted stock vesting in 2003, 2002 and 2001, the
               Company recorded compensation expense of $7.5 million, $5.6
               million and $2.5 million, respectively, for restricted stock.
               During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded compensation
               expense for dividend equivalents of $3.5 million, $3.2 million,
               and $3.1 million respectively, for undistributed restricted stock
               and unexercised stock options.

               In previous years, as part of the Plan, the Company structured
               stock purchase plans ("SPP loans") whereby executives could
               acquire common stock at fair market value by investing their own
               capital in combination with loans provided by Regency. These
               interest-bearing, full recourse loans were secured by stock,
               which was held as collateral by Regency. These loans provided for
               partial forgiveness of the unpaid principal balance over time
               based upon specified performance criteria and the passage of
               time.  The Company ceased making these types of loans after 1998
               and has not originated any new personal loans to employees since
               that date. Effective September 30, 2002, all participants agreed
               to repay the entire balance of their loans outstanding with a
               portion of the common shares held as collateral, valued at fair
               market value as of September 30, 2002. The Company, in return,
               granted the participants 45,195 shares of restricted stock with a
               fair value of $31.00 and stock options to provide them with the
               same level of compensation benefits that they would have received
               under existing agreements for specified forgiveness amounts.
               These grants were made in accordance with the existing Plan.
               During 2002, $240,491 of unpaid principal was repaid in cash, $6
               million was repaid through the surrendering of shares held as
               collateral, and $575,741 was forgiven and recorded as
               compensation expense.

                                      F-12


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

         (i)   Stock-Based Compensation (continued)

               The following table represents the assumptions used for the
               Black-Scholes option-pricing model for options granted in the
               respective year:

               The Company applies Opinion 25 in accounting for its Plan, and
               accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its
               stock options in the consolidated financial statements. Had the
               Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at
               the grant date for its stock options under Statement 123, the
               Company's net income for common stockholders would have been
               reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below (in thousands
               except per share data):

         (j)   Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

               In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN
               46") (revised December 2003 ("FIN 46R")), "Consolidation of
               Variable Interest Entities", which addresses how a business
               enterprise should evaluate whether it has controlling financial
               interest in an entity through means other than voting rights and
               accordingly should consolidate the entity. FIN 46R replaces FIN
               46, which was issued in January 2003. FIN 46R is applicable
               immediately to a variable interest entity created after January
               31, 2003 and as of the first interim period ending after March
               15, 2004 to those variable interest entities created before
               February 1, 2003 and not already consolidated under FIN 46 in
               previously issued financial statements. The Company did not
               create any variable interest entities after January 31, 2003. The
               Company has analyzed the applicability of this interpretation to
               its structures created before February 1, 2003 and does not
               believe its adoption will have a material effect on the results
               of operations.


                                      F-13


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

         (k)   Segment Reporting

               The Company's business is investing in retail shopping centers
               through direct ownership or through joint ventures. The Company
               actively manages its portfolio of retail shopping centers and may
               from time to time make decisions to sell lower performing
               properties, or developments not meeting its long-term investment
               objectives. The proceeds of sales are invested into higher
               quality retail shopping centers through acquisitions or new
               developments, which management believes will meet its planned
               rate of return. It is management's intent that all retail
               shopping centers will be owned or developed for investment
               purposes. The Company's revenue and net income are generated from
               the operation of its investment portfolio. The Company will also
               earn incidental fees from third parties for services provided to
               manage and lease retail shopping centers owned through joint
               ventures.

               The Company's portfolio is located throughout the United States;
               however, management does not distinguish or group its operations
               on a geographical basis for purposes of allocating resources or
               measuring performance. The Company reviews operating and
               financial data for each property on an individual basis,
               therefore, the Company defines an operating segment as its
               individual properties. No individual property constitutes more
               than 10% of the Company's combined revenue, net income or assets,
               and thus the individual properties have been aggregated into one
               reportable segment based upon their similarities with regard to
               both the nature of the centers, tenants and operational
               processes, as well as long-term average financial performance. In
               addition, no single tenant accounts for 10% or more of revenue
               and none of the shopping centers are located outside the United
               States.

         (l)   Derivative Financial Instruments

               The Company adopted SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative
               Instruments and Hedging Activities" as amended ("Statement 133"),
               on January 1, 2001. Statement 133 requires that all derivative
               instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
               Gains or losses resulting from changes in the values of those
               derivatives would be accounted for depending on the use of the
               derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. The
               Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest
               rate swaps to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related
               financial instrument. Statement 133 requires that changes in fair
               value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges be
               recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) while the
               ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value be
               recognized immediately in earnings.

               To determine the fair value of derivative instruments, the
               Company uses standard market conventions and techniques such as
               discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and
               termination costs at each balance sheet date. All methods of
               assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value,
               and such value may never actually be realized.

         (m)   Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities
               and Equity

               In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting Standards
               No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
               Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity" ("Statement
               150"). Statement 150 affects the accounting for certain financial
               instruments, including requiring companies having consolidated
               entities with specified termination dates to treat minority
               owners' interests in such entities as liabilities in an amount
               based on the fair value of the entities. Although Statement 150
               was originally effective July 1, 2003, the FASB has

                                      F-14


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

         (m)   Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities
               and Equity (continued)

               indefinitely deferred certain provisions related to
               classification and measurement requirements for mandatorily
               redeemable financial instruments that become subject to
               Statement 150 solely as a result of consolidation including
               minority interests of entities with specified termination
               dates. As a result, Statement 150 has no impact on the
               Company's consolidated statements of operations for the
               year ended December 31, 2003.

               At December 31, 2003, the Company held a majority interest
               in five consolidated entities with specified termination
               dates ranging from 2012 to 2049. The minority owners'
               interests in these entities are to be settled upon
               termination by distribution of either cash or specific
               assets of the underlying entities. The estimated fair value
               of minority interests in entities with specified
               termination dates was approximately $8.5 million at
               December 31, 2003 as compared to the carrying value of $4.7
               million. The Company has no other financial instruments
               that currently are affected by Statement 150.

         (n)   Reclassifications

               Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2002 and 2001
               amounts to conform to classifications adopted in 2003.

2.       Discontinued Operations

         During 2003, the Company sold 100% of its interest in 14 operating
         properties for proceeds of $103.7 million and the combined operating
         income and gain of $19.6 million on these sales are included in
         discontinued operations. The revenues from properties included in
         discontinued operations, including properties sold in 2003 and 2002,
         as well as operating properties held for sale, were $8.7 million,
         $34.8 million and $41.7 million for the years ended December 31,
         2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The operating income from these
         properties was $3.6 million, $14.8 million and $22.7 million for the
         years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Operating
         income and gains on sales included in discontinued operations are
         shown net of minority interest of exchangeable operating partnership
         units totaling $461,568, $782,799 and $586,856 for the years ended
         December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

3.       Real Estate Investments

         During 2003, the Company acquired four operating properties from
         third parties for $75.4 million. During 2002, the Company acquired
         five operating properties for $106.7 million. The acquisitions were
         accounted for as purchases and the results of their operations are
         included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective
         dates of acquisition. Acquisitions (either individually or in the
         aggregate) were not significant to the operations of the Company in
         the periods in which they were acquired or the period preceding the
         acquisition.

         The Company accounts for all investments in which it owns 50% or less
         and does not have a controlling financial interest using the equity
         method. The Company's combined investment in these partnerships was
         $140.5 million and $125.5 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
         respectively. Net income, which includes all operating results, as
         well as gains and losses on sales of properties within the joint
         ventures, is allocated to the Company in accordance with the
         respective partnership agreements. Such allocations of net income are
         recorded in equity in income of investments in real estate
         partnerships in the accompanying consolidated statements of
         operations.


                                      F-15


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

3.       Real Estate Investments (continued)

         The Company has a 25% equity interest in Macquarie
         CountryWide-Regency, LLC ("MCWR"), a joint venture with an affiliate
         of Macquarie CountryWide Trust of Australia, a Sydney,
         Australia-based property trust focused on investing in
         grocery-anchored shopping centers. During 2003, MCWR acquired 12
         shopping centers from the Company for $232.9 million, for which the
         Company received cash of $79.4 million, and notes receivable of $95.3
         million. During 2003, MCWR repaid $69.3 million of the notes and in
         February 2004, MCWR repaid an additional $10.5 million. The note
         receivable has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.5% and matures on
         March 31, 2004. MCWR is currently in the process of placing third
         party, fixed-rate mortgages on certain properties, the proceeds of
         which will be used to repay the remaining balance of $15.5 million.
         The Company recognized gains on these sales of $25.7 million recorded
         as gain on sale of operating properties and properties in
         development. During 2002, MCWR acquired 11 shopping centers from the
         Company for $145.2 million, for which the Company received net
         proceeds of $83.8 million and a note receivable of $25.1 million.
         MCWR repaid the note receivable during 2003. The Company recognized
         gains on these sales of $11.1 million. During 2003, MCWR sold two
         shopping centers to third parties for $20.1 million.

         The Company also has a 20% equity interest in Columbia Regency Retail
         Partners, LLC ("Columbia"), a joint venture with the Oregon State
         Treasury that was formed for the purpose of investing in retail
         shopping centers. During 2003, Columbia acquired two shopping centers
         from third parties that will have a total investment at completion of
         $39.1 million and sold one shopping center to a third party for $46.2
         million with a gain of $9.3 million. During 2002, Columbia acquired one
         shopping center from the Company for $19.5 million, for which the
         Company received cash of $15.6 million.

         Recognition of gains from sales to joint ventures is recorded on only
         that portion of the sales not attributable to our ownership interest.
         The gains and operations are not recorded as discontinued operations
         because of our continuing involvement in these shopping centers.
         Columbia and MCWR intend to continue to acquire retail shopping
         centers, some of which they may acquire directly from the Company.
         For those properties acquired from third parties, the Company is
         required to contribute its pro-rata share of the purchase price to
         the partnership.

         With the exception of Columbia and MCWR, both of which intend to
         continue expanding their investment in shopping centers, the
         investments in real estate partnerships represent single asset
         entities formed for the purpose of developing or owning retail based
         commercial real estate.

         The Company's investments in real estate partnerships as of December
         31, 2003 and 2002 consist of the following (in thousands):




                                      F-16


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

3.       Real Estate Investments (continued)

         Summarized financial information for the unconsolidated investments on
         a combined basis, is as follows (in thousands):



         Unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures had notes payable of
         $322.2 million at December 31, 2003 and the Company's proportionate
         share of these loans was $74.4 million. The Company does not
         guarantee any debt of these partnerships beyond our ownership
         percentage.

         The revenues and expenses on a combined basis are summarized as
         follows for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:




4.       Acquired Lease Intangibles

         Effective July 1, 2001, the Company adopted FAS 141, "Business
         Combinations", to account for the acquisition of shopping centers
         that are considered businesses. In accordance with FAS 141,
         identifiable intangible assets are valued and recorded at acquisition
         date. Such intangibles include the value of in-place leases and above
         or below-market leases.

         Acquired lease intangible assets are net of accumulated amortization
         of $405,327 and $37,096 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
         These assets have a weighted average amortization period of seven
         years. The aggregate amortization expense from acquired leases was
         $368,231 and $37,096 during 2003 and 2002, respectively. Acquired
         lease intangible liabilities are net of previously accreted minimum
         rent of $953,964 at December 31, 2003 and have a weighted average
         amortization period of seven years.


                                      F-17


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

4.       Acquired Lease Intangibles (continued)

         The estimated aggregate amortization amounts from acquired lease
         intangibles for each of the next five years are to be classified as
         follows:



5.       Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit

         The Company's outstanding debt at December 31, 2003 and 2002 consists
         of the following (in thousands):



         Interest rates paid on the unsecured line of credit (the "Line"),
         which are based on LIBOR plus .85%, were 1.975% and 2.288% at
         December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The spread that the Company
         pays on the Line is dependent upon maintaining specific investment
         grade ratings. The Company is required to comply, and is in
         compliance with, certain financial and other covenants customary with
         this type of unsecured financing. The Line is used primarily to
         finance the acquisition and development of real estate, but is also
         available for general working capital purposes. The Line matures on
         April 30, 2004, but contains a one-year extension option. The Company
         has executed a commitment with the lead bank under the Line and
         expects to renew it for a term of three years from the original
         maturity date.

         Mortgage loans are secured by certain real estate properties and may
         be prepaid, but could be subject to a yield-maintenance premium.
         Mortgage loans are generally due in monthly installments of interest
         and principal and mature over various terms through 2023. Variable
         interest rates on mortgage loans are currently based on LIBOR plus a
         spread in a range of 125 to 150 basis points. Fixed interest rates on
         mortgage loans range from 5.65% to 9.50%.

         In June 2003, the Company assumed debt with a fair value of $13.3
         million related to the acquisition of a property, which includes a
         debt premium of $797,303 based upon the above market interest rate of
         the debt instrument. The debt premium is being amortized over the
         term of the related debt instrument.


                                      F-18


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

5.       Notes Payable and Unsecured Line of Credit (continued)

         During 2002, the Company extinguished the debt on an operating
         property for the face amount of the note, resulting in the
         recognition of a gain of $2.4 million on early extinguishment
         representing the remaining unamortized premium recorded upon
         assumption of the debt. The gain has been recorded in other income on
         the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

         As of December 31, 2003, scheduled principal repayments on notes
         payable and the Line were as follows (in thousands):



6.       Derivative Financial Instruments

         The Company is exposed to capital market risk, such as changes in
         interest rates. In order to manage the volatility relating to
         interest rate risk, the Company may enter into interest rate hedging
         arrangements from time to time. The Company does not utilize
         derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

         In July and September, 2003, the Company entered into two
         forward-starting interest rate swaps of $96.5 million and $47.7
         million, respectively. The Company designated the $144.2 million
         swaps as hedges to effectively fix the rate on a refinancing expected
         in April 2004. The fair value of the swaps was an asset of $174,747
         as of December 31, 2003, and is recorded in other assets in the
         accompanying balance sheet. The swaps qualify for hedge accounting
         under Statement 133; therefore, changes in fair value are recorded
         through other comprehensive income. No hedge ineffectiveness has been
         incurred or recognized to date on these swaps. Amounts reported in
         accumulated other comprehensive income related to these swaps will be
         reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the
         forecasted refinancing. The Company estimates that an additional
         $13,106 will be reclassified to interest expense in 2004.

7.       Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest

         (a)    The Company, through RCLP, has issued Cumulative Redeemable
                Preferred Units ("Preferred Units") in various amounts
                since 1998. The issues were sold primarily to institutional
                investors in private placements for $100 per unit. The
                Preferred Units, which may be called by RCLP at par after
                certain dates, have no stated maturity or mandatory
                redemption, and pay a cumulative, quarterly dividend at
                fixed rates. At any time after ten years from the date of
                issuance, the Preferred Units may be exchanged by the
                holder for Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
                ("Preferred Stock") at an exchange rate of one share for
                one unit. The Preferred Units and the related Preferred
                Stock are not convertible


                                      F-19


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

7.       Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest (continued)

         (a)    into common stock of the Company. The net proceeds of these
                offerings were used to reduce the balance of the Line. At
                December 31, 2003 and 2002 the face value of total
                Preferred Units issued was $229 million and $384 million,
                respectively, with an average fixed distribution rate of
                8.88% and 8.72%, respectively.

                During the third quarter of 2003, the Company redeemed $80
                million of Series A 8.125% Preferred Units which was funded
                from proceeds from the stock offering completed on August
                18, 2003 and described below. At the time of the
                redemption, $1.2 million of costs related to the preferred
                units were recognized in the consolidated statements of
                operations as a component of minority interest of preferred
                units. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company
                redeemed $35 million of Series C 9% Preferred Units and $40
                million of Series E 8.75% Preferred Units. The redemptions
                were portions of each series and the Company paid a 1%
                premium on the face value of the redeemed units totaling
                $750,000. At the time of redemption, the premium and $1.9
                million of previously deferred costs related to the
                original preferred units' issuance were recognized in the
                consolidated statements of operations as a component of
                minority interest of preferred units. The redemption of the
                Series C and E units was funded from proceeds from the
                Line.

                Terms and conditions of the Preferred Units outstanding as of
                December 31, 2003 are summarized as follows:




         (b)    On August 18, 2003, we issued 3,600,000 shares of common stock
                at $35.96 per share in a public offering.

                Until June 24, 2003, Security Capital Group Incorporated
                owned 34,273,236 shares, representing 56.6% of Regency's
                outstanding common stock. On June 24, 2003 Security Capital
                (1) sold Regency common stock through (a) an underwritten
                public offering and (b) the sale of 4,606,880 shares to
                Regency at the public offering price of $32.56 per share
                and (2) agreed to sell the balance of its Regency shares
                pursuant to forward sales contracts with underwriters.
                Security Capital settled all of the forward sales contracts
                in September and December 2003, and as a result, Security
                Capital no longer owns any Regency shares. Security Capital
                terminated its Stockholders Agreement with Regency on June
                24, 2003 and is now subject to the same 7% ownership limit
                in Regency's articles of incorporation that applies to
                other shareholders.


                                      F-20


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

7.       Stockholders' Equity and Minority Interest (continued)

         (c)    During the first quarter of 2003, the holder of the Series
                2 preferred stock converted all of its remaining 450,400
                preferred shares into common stock at a conversion ratio of
                1:1.

         (d)    On April 3, 2003, the Company received proceeds from a $75
                million offering of 3,000,000 depositary shares
                representing 300,000 shares of Series 3 Cumulative
                Redeemable Preferred Stock. The depositary shares are not
                convertible into common stock of the Company and are
                redeemable at par upon Regency's election on or after April
                3, 2008, pay a 7.45% annual dividend and have a liquidation
                value of $25 per depositary share. The proceeds from this
                offering were used to reduce the Line.






                                      F-21


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

8.       Earnings per Share

         The following summarizes the calculation of basic and diluted
         earnings per share for the three years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
         and 2001 (in thousands except per share data):






                                      F-22


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

9.       Stock Option Plan

         Under the Plan, the Company may grant stock options to its officers,
         directors and other key employees. Options are granted at fair market
         value on the date of grant, vest 25% per year, and expire after ten
         years. Stock option grants also receive dividend equivalents for a
         specified period of time equal to the Company's dividend yield less
         the average dividend yield of the S&P 500 as of the grant date.
         Dividend equivalents are funded in Regency common stock, and vest at
         the same rate as the options upon which they are based.

         The following table reports stock option activity during the periods
         indicated:



         The following table presents information regarding all options
         outstanding at December 31, 2003:





                                      F-23


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

9.       Stock Option Plan (continued)

         The following table presents information regarding options currently
         exercisable at December 31, 2003:



10.      Operating Leases

         The Company's properties are leased to tenants under operating leases
         with expiration dates extending to the year 2033. Future minimum
         rents under noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2003,
         excluding tenant reimbursements of operating expenses and excluding
         additional contingent rentals based on tenants' sales volume are as
         follows (in thousands):

                  Year Ending December 31,                       Amount
             --------------------------------------- ---- ---------------------

                            2004                          $          268,020
                            2005                                     257,485
                            2006                                     223,650
                            2007                                     190,663
                            2008                                     156,164
                         Thereafter                                   47,564
                                                          -------------------

                           Total                          $        1,143,546
                                                          ===================

         The shopping centers' tenant base includes primarily national and
         regional supermarkets, drug stores, discount department stores and
         other retailers and, consequently, the credit risk is concentrated in
         the retail industry. There were no tenants that individually
         represented 10% or more of the Company's combined minimum rent.

11.      Contingencies

         The Company is involved in litigation on a number of matters and is
         subject to certain claims which arise in the normal course of
         business, none of which, in the opinion of management, is expected to
         have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
         financial position, results of operations or liquidity.



                                      F-24


                           Regency Centers Corporation

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                December 31, 2003

12.      Market and Dividend Information (Unaudited)

         The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
         ("NYSE") under the symbol "REG". The Company currently has
         approximately 7,000 shareholders. The following table sets forth the
         high and low prices and the cash dividends declared on the Company's
         common stock by quarter for 2003 and 2002:



13.      Summary of Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

         Presented below is a summary of the consolidated quarterly financial
         data for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (amounts in
         thousands, except per share data):




                                      F-25




The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Regency Centers Corporation


Under date of March 8, 2004, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of
Regency Centers Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2003, as contained in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2003. In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule as listed
in the accompanying index on page F-1 of the annual report on Form 10-K for the
year 2003. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.







                                        /s/ KPMG LLP




Jacksonville, Florida
March 8, 2004



                                      S-1








                                      S-2








                                      S-3








                                      S-4












                                      S-5


                           REGENCY CENTERS CORPORATION

                Combined Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
                                December 31, 2003



Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investments in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of operations are calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings and improvements - up to 40 years

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $2.6
billion at December 31, 2003.


The changes in total real estate assets for the periods ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001:





The changes in accumulated depreciation for the periods ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001:





                                      S-6



