
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                         ------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                         ------------------------------
 
                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         ------------------------------
 
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995            COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3157

                         ------------------------------
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
 
              (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)
 
                NEW YORK                                13-0872805
    (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)
 
TWO MANHATTANVILLE ROAD, PURCHASE, N.Y.                   10577
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)
 
         COMPANY'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 914-397-1500
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                                     NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
                TITLE OF EACH CLASS                      WHICH REGISTERED
  ------------------------------------------------   ------------------------
  Cumulative $4 Preferred Stock, without par value              --
  Common Stock, $1 per share par value               New York Stock Exchange
  5 1/8% Debentures due 2012                         New York Stock Exchange
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Company
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X   No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [x]

     The aggregate market value of the common stock of the Company outstanding
as of February 29, 1996, held by non-affiliates of the Company was
$9,220,244,390.00, calculated on the basis of the closing price on the Composite
Tape on February 29, 1996. For this computation, the Company has excluded the
market value of all common stock beneficially owned by all executive officers
and directors of the Company and their associates as a group and treasury stock.
Such exclusion is not to signify in any way that members of this group are
'affiliates' of the Company.
 
     The number of shares outstanding of the Company's common stock, as of
February 29, 1996:
 
                           OUTSTANDING   IN TREASURY
                           -----------   -----------
                           261,445,921    1,815,397
 
     The following documents are incorporated by reference into the parts of
this report indicated below:
 
1995 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
(PP. 1 AND 4 THROUGH 68)                                 PARTS I, II AND IV
PROXY STATEMENT, DATED MARCH 29, 1996                    PART III
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     International Paper Company,* a New York corporation incorporated in 1941
as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898,
is a worldwide producer of printing and writing papers, paperboard and packaging
and wood products; and distributes paper and office supply products in the
United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim. It also produces pulp, laminated
products, and specialty products, including photosensitive films and papers,
nonwovens, chemicals and minerals.
 
     In the United States, the Company operates 24 pulp and paper mills, 52
converting and packaging plants, 29 wood products facilities, 15 specialty
panels and laminated products plants and six nonwoven products facilities.
Production facilities in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada include 14 pulp
and paper mills, 30 converting and packaging plants, two wood products
facilities, four specialty panels and laminated products plants and four
nonwoven products facilities.
 

     The Company distributes fine paper, printing and industrial products and
building materials, primarily manufactured by other companies, through over 300
distribution branches located primarily in the United States. In addition, the
Company produces photosensitive films and papers and photographic equipment
(three U.S. and six international locations) and specialty chemicals (seven U.S.
and three international locations), and engages in domestic oil and gas and real
estate activities.
 
     Through its acquisition of Carter Holt Harvey, the Company, primarily in
New Zealand and Australia, operates seven mills producing pulp and paper,
packaging and tissue products, 32 converting and packaging facilities, 49 wood
products manufacturing and distribution facilities, and nine building products
plants. Carter Holt Harvey distributes paper and packaging products through 18
distribution branches located in New Zealand and Australia. In New Zealand,
Carter Holt Harvey controls approximately 800,000 acres of forestlands.
 
     In January 1995, the Company acquired the assets of two Michigan-based
paper distributors, Carpenter Paper Company and Seaman-Patrick Paper Company. In
March 1994, the Company, through a subsidiary, acquired from Brierley
Investments Limited (Brierley) an additional 8 percent interest in Carter Holt
Harvey Limited (Carter Holt Harvey), a major New Zealand forest and paper
products company with substantial assets in Chile. The purchase increased the
Company's ownership of Carter Holt Harvey to 24 percent. In April 1995, the
Company acquired from Brierley their remaining 131.8 million shares of Carter
Holt Harvey for NZ$470 million (approximately $316 million). Further in April
1995, an additional 325.8 million Carter Holt Harvey shares were acquired by the
Company through a subsidiary in open-market purchases for NZ$3.80 per share
(approximately $834 million) bringing the Company's total ownership in Carter
Holt Harvey to 50.2% on a fully diluted basis. Beginning May 1, 1995, Carter
Holt Harvey was consolidated in the financial statements of the Company. The
Company in September 1995, acquired Micarta, the high pressure laminates
business of Westinghouse located in Hampton, South Carolina and in October 1995,
acquired the inks and adhesives resin business of DSM located in Niort, France.
 
     In July 1994, the Company, through a subsidiary, acquired certain assets of
Papelera Kif and Ogi Papel, distributors of printing papers in Juarez and
Chihuahua, Mexico. In December 1994, the Company completed a merger with Kirk
Paper Corporation, a paper distributor located in Downey, California using the
pooling-of-interests accounting method, and acquired additional stock of Zanders
Feinpapiere AG.
 
     In April 1993, the Company acquired certain assets of the Los Angeles-based
Ingram Paper Company, a distributor of industrial and fine printing papers. In
December, J.B. Papers, Inc., a paper distribution company located in Union,
N.J., was purchased. Also in December, the assets of Monsanto Company's
Kentucky-based Fome-Cor division, a manufacturer of polystyrene foam products,
were acquired.

     All of the 1995, 1994 and 1993 acquisitions, except the merger with Kirk
Paper Corporation, were accounted for using the purchase method.  The pro-forma
consolidated results of operations reflecting the 1995 acquisitions are
presented on page 58 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders (the
"Annual Report"), which information is incorporated herein by reference.  The
effects of the 1994 and 1993 mergers and acquisitions, both individually and in
the aggregate, were not significant to the Company's consolidated financial
statements.
 
     A further discussion of mergers and acquisitions can be found on pages 44,
57 and 58 of the Company's Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
- ------------------
* Unless otherwise indicated by the context, the terms 'Company' and
  'International Paper' are used interchangeably to describe International Paper
  Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 

     From 1991 through 1995, International Paper's capital expenditures
approximated $6.2 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These
expenditures reflect continuing efforts to improve product quality and
environmental performance, lower costs, expand production capacity, and acquire
and improve forestlands. Capital spending in 1995 was approximately $1.5 billion
and is budgeted to be approximately $1.4 billion in 1996. A further discussion
of capital expenditures can be found on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual Report,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Company, which owns a majority interest in IP Timberlands, Ltd., a
Texas limited partnership (IPT), controlled approximately 6.0 million acres of
forestlands in the United States at December 31, 1995. IPT was formed to succeed
to substantially all of International Paper's forest products business for the
period 1985 through 2035, unless earlier terminated. Through its subsidiary
Carter Holt Harvey, the Company controls approximately 800,000 acres of
forestlands in New Zealand.
 
     In March 1996, IPT signed a contract to sell a 98% general partnership
interest in a subsidiary partnership owning all of IPT's Western region assets,
which includes approximately 300,000 acres of forestlands in Oregon and
Washington. IPT will retain a 1% limited partner's interest and a preferred
interest of approximately $135 million. IP Forest Resources Company, the
managing general partner of IPT will own another 1% interest.
 
     In March 1996, the Company completed its announced merger with Federal
Paper Board. For a further discussion of this merger, see pages 44 and 58 of the
Company's Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     The financial information concerning industry segments is set forth on
pages 10, 18, 24, 34, 40, 45 and 50 of the Annual Report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 
     The financial information concerning international and domestic operations
and export sales is set forth on page 49 of the Annual Report, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION AND COSTS
 
     Despite the size of the Company's manufacturing capacities for paper,
paperboard, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product
lines are large and highly fragmented. The markets for wood and specialty
products are similarly large and fragmented. There are numerous competitors, and
the major markets, both domestic and international, in which the Company sells
its principal products are very competitive. These products are in competition
with similar products produced by others, and in some instances, with products
produced by other industries from other materials.
 
     Many factors influence the Company's competitive position, including
prices, costs, product quality and services. Information on the impact of prices
and costs on operating profits is contained on pages 10, 18, 24, 34, 40 and 44
through 48 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Paper and packaging products are sold through the Company's own sales
organization directly to users or converters for manufacture. Sales offices are
located throughout the United States as well as internationally. Significant
volumes of products are also sold through paper merchants and distributors,
including facilities in the Company's distribution network.
 
     The Company's U.S. production of lumber and plywood is marketed through
independent and Company-owned distribution centers. Specialty products are
marketed through various channels of distribution.
 
DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS
 
     The Company's principal products are described on pages 5 through 41 of the
Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 


     Production of major products for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was as follows:
 
                             PRODUCTION BY PRODUCTS
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 

- ------------------
(1) This excludes market pulp purchases of approximately 700,000 tons annually.
(2) A significant portion of this tonnage was fabricated from paperboard and
    paper produced at the Company's own mills and included in the
    containerboard, bleached packaging board and industrial papers figures in
    this table.
(3) Panels include plywood and oriented strand board.
(4) Includes amounts for Carter Holt Harvey as applicable from May 1, 1995.
(5) Certain reclassifications and adjustments have been made to current and
    prior-year amounts.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company operates research and development centers at Sterling Forest,
New York; Mobile, Alabama; Erie, Pennsylvania; Kaukauna, Wisconsin; Binghamton,
New York; South Walpole, Massachusetts; St. Charles, Illinois; Orange Park,
Florida; Holyoke, Massachusetts; Odenton, Maryland; Mobberley, United Kingdom;
Morley, United Kingdom; Munich, Germany; Fribourg, Switzerland; Saint-Priest,
France; Annecy, France; a regional center for applied forest research in
Bainbridge, Georgia; a forest biotechnology center in Rotorua, New Zealand; and
several product laboratories. Research and development activities are directed
to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and
operating divisions; process, equipment and product innovations; and improvement
of profits through tree generation and propagation research. Activities include
studies on improved forest species and management; innovation and improvement of
pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes;
innovation and improvement of photographic materials and processes, printing
plates, pressroom/plate chemistries and plate processors; reduction of
environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes;
recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation;
applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and
improvement of products; and development of various new products. Product
development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the
minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and
development operations was $110.8 million in 1995, $102.6 million in 1994 and
$94.7 million in 1993.
 

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
 
     Control over pollutants discharged into the air, water and groundwater to
avoid significant adverse impacts on the environment and achieve 100% compliance
with applicable law and regulations is a continuing objective of the Company.
The Company has invested substantial funds to modify facilities to assure
compliance with applicable environmental quality laws and plans to make
substantial capital expenditures for these purposes in the future. The Company
expects the pending merger with Federal to increase environmental expenditures.
The amount of these expenditures will be determined after the merger is
completed. The discussions in the following paragraphs are based on
International Paper facilities at the end of 1995.
 
     A total of $108 million was spent in 1995 to control pollutant releases
into the air and water and to assure environmentally sound disposal of solid and
hazardous waste. The Company expects to spend approximately $175 million in 1996
for similar capital programs. Amounts to be spent for environmental control
facilities in future years will depend on new laws and regulations, changes in
legal requirements and changes in environmental concerns. Taking these
uncertainties into account, the Company's preliminary estimate for additional
environmental appropriations during the period 1997 through 1998 is in the range
of $390 million to $650 million.

     In December 1993, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
proposed new pulp and paper mill standards for air emissions and water
discharges to be met three years after final promulgation. This proposal is
known as 'Cluster Rulemaking.' EPA also promulgated regulations implementing the
Great Lakes Initiative ('GLI') covering water quality and permitting
implementation procedures. Future spending will be heavily influenced by the
final Cluster rules and, in the case of the GLI, on how the individual Great
Lakes states implement the program. In 1994, the Company estimated future
capital spending to comply with the Cluster Rulemaking and the GLI to be between
$700 million and $1.5 billion depending upon the methods and deadlines allowed
by the final regulations to meet requirements. There have been extensive
discussions with the Congress and EPA over the last two years but, there have
been no publicly announced changes to the proposed 'Cluster' regulations.
Nevertheless, there is reason to expect that changes will soon be announced and
that these estimates will be adjusted downward, and will occur over a longer
time frame than the three years in the current proposal. In 1994, the Company
estimated that annual operating costs, excluding depreciation, would increase
between $60 million and $120 million when these regulations are fully
implemented. This estimate will also be adjusted to the extent the EPA makes
moderating changes.
 
     The Company expects the significant effort it has made in the analysis of
environmental issues and the development of environmental control technology to
enable it to keep costs for compliance with environmental regulations at, or
below, industry averages.
 
     A further discussion of environmental issues can be found on pages 43, 47
and 48 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     As of December 31, 1995, $916 million of industrial and pollution control
revenue bonds, secured by Company contractual obligations, were outstanding in
57 political subdivisions of various states, counties and municipalities,
primarily to finance environmental control projects located at or in conjunction
with the Company's plants in those subdivisions. It is contemplated that
additional industrial revenue bonds will be issued from time to time to finance
other environmental control projects, provided tax law changes do not curtail
the Company's access to the municipal bond market.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 81,500 employees, of
whom approximately 51,000 were located in the United States and the remainder
overseas. Of the domestic employees, approximately 33,000 are hourly employees,
approximately 15,000 of whom are represented by the United Paperworkers
International Union.
 
     During 1995, new labor agreements were reached at the Erie and Georgetown
Mills. Currently, negotiations are still in progress at the Hudson River Mill.
 


     During 1996, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at the
following mills: Gardiner, Pineville, Texarkana, Thilmany, Ticonderoga and
Woronoco. During 1997, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at the
following mills: Mobile, Riverdale, Oswego, Millers Falls, and Vicksburg.
 
     During 1995, labor agreements expired at 11 packaging plants, four
specialty products plants and four distribution operations. Multi-year labor
agreements were negotiated at each location except three packaging plants, one
specialty products plant and two distribution operations where negotiations were
still in progress at year end. One land and timber operation has a contract open
from a previous year.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     For information as to the sources and availability of raw materials
essential to the Company's business, see Item 2 'Properties.'
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
FORESTLANDS
 
     The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various
forms. At December 31, 1995, IPT, a limited partnership in which the Company has
a majority ownership interest, controlled approximately 5.9 million acres of
forestlands in the U.S. while an additional 0.1 million acres are held under
short-term leases to International Paper. In March 1996, IPT signed a contract
to sell a 98% general partnership interest in a subsidiary partnership owning
all of IPT's Western region assets, which includes approximately 300,000 acres
of forestlands in Oregon and Washington.
 
     During 1995, such forestlands supplied 1.5 million cords of roundwood to
the Company's U.S. facilities. This amounted to the following percentages of the
roundwood requirements of its mills and forest products facilities: 12% in its
Northern mills, 16% in its Southern mills and none in its Western mill. The
balance was acquired from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland
owners, as well as the United States government. In addition, 3.4 million cords
of IPT's wood were sold to other users in 1995.
 
     In November 1994, the Company adopted the Sustainable Forestry Principles
developed by the American Forest and Paper Association in August 1994.
 
MILLS AND PLANTS
 
     A listing of the Company's production facilities can be found in Appendix I
hereto, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Company's facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for
the purposes for which they are presently being used. The Company continues to
study the economics of modernizing or adopting other alternatives for higher
cost facilities. Further discussions of new mill and plant projects can be found
on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.
 

CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
     Given the size, scope and complexity of its business interests,
International Paper continuously examines and evaluates a wide variety of
business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible
acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. Planned capital
investments for 1996, as of December 31, 1995, are set forth on pages 44 through
46 and 58 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
DIOXIN LITIGATION
 
     On June 11, 1993, a lawsuit purporting to be a class action was filed by
individuals against the Company, Dow Chemical and individual employees of both
companies in the 18th Judicial District of Louisiana seeking compensatory and
punitive damages of an unspecified amount, alleging that the Company polluted
Staulkinghead Creek and all waterways south thereof, by discharging chemicals,
including dioxin, from its Bastrop, Louisiana mill. The case was removed to the
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. On June 22, 1994, the
Court entered an order dismissing Dow and its employees from the case. The
Plaintiff appealed this ruling challenging among other things federal
jurisdiction. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the
defendants on all issues and returned the case to the Federal District Court.
The case is still before that court for the determination of class
certification.
 
     Beginning in November of 1990, the Company was named as a defendant in 88
lawsuits by individuals filed in state or federal court in Mississippi alleging
that it has polluted and damaged the Pascagoula, Leaf and
 

Escatawpa Rivers by releasing dioxin and over 40 other chemicals into those
rivers. Georgia-Pacific was initially named in most of these suits but an order
severing it from the Company in all the then pending cases was entered on
September 15, 1992. Following the severance order, nine of the state cases were
removed from state court to Federal District Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi. Of the nine cases that were removed four were dismissed and the
remaining five were resolved by summary judgments in favor of the Company.
 
     On May 24, 1993, a wrongful death action was filed in Mississippi state
court against the Company claiming the decedent's death was related to exposure
to hazardous and toxic substances from the Moss Point mill. The lawsuit also
included the independent survivorship claims of the widow. The complaint raised
claims similar to those in the previously-filed lawsuits and also contained
specific allegations relating to the disposal of sludge by the mill. The
plaintiff sought compensatory damages of $1 million and punitive damages of $20
million. The case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi. In August of 1995 the federal court granted the
Company's motion for summary judgment and this case is now concluded.

     All of the 64 cases that had been pending in the Mississippi state court
had been consolidated before one judge. Pursuant to a scheduling order a
bellwhether trial with six plaintiffs was set for trial in November, 1995.
However, prior to trial, the court granted the Company's motions for summary
judgment against those specific plaintiffs. Thereafter the Company filed similar
motions for summary judgment in some of the remaining cases. These motions were
granted on March 4, 1996, resulting in the dismissal of 29 cases and 3,094
plaintiffs. The Company has filed or will file similar motions in all the
remaining cases.
 
     In summary, taking into account various dismissals, there are 36 cases
pending in state court and none in Federal Court for a total of 36 Mississippi
cases as of March 5, 1996. In these cases, there are a total of 1,981 plaintiffs
seeking compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive relief. While any of
this litigation has an element of uncertainty, the Company believes that in the
very near future it will prevail on its motions for summary judgment, thereby
eliminating all the remaining cases. The Company further believes that the
outcome of any of these proceedings, lawsuits or claims, pending or threatened,
or all of them combined, will not have a materially adverse effect on the
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
OTHER LITIGATION
 
     On October 14, 1993, the Town of Jay, Maine assessed a penalty of $394,000
against the Company's Androscoggin mill for violations of its air permit under
the Town's Environmental Control and Improvement Ordinance attributable to
excess emissions of particulate from one of the mill's lime kilns, as well as
violations of certain reporting requirements. The Town's penalty assessment was
appealed. On September 28, 1994, the Maine Superior Court vacated most of the
penalty the Town had assessed, leaving $22,000 in place but providing the Town
with the opportunity to reassess the penalty on four violations. The Town
appealed this decision to the Maine Supreme Judicial Court, the State's highest
court, sitting as the Law Court. By decision, dated October 6, 1995, the Law
Court affirmed the decision of the Superior Court. On October 20, 1995, the Town
asked the Law Court to reconsider its decision. On November 10, 1995, the Law
Court denied the Town's request.
 
     The Maine Department of Environmental Protection proposed on October 15,
1992 that the Androscoggin mill enter into an Administrative Consent Agreement
and Enforcement Order and pay a civil penalty of $217,892 because the
particulate emissions from the same lime kiln which was the subject of the
foregoing proceeding with the Town of Jay, had exceeded the limits in the state
air license. On March 9, 1994, the State commenced an action in the Maine
Superior Court but no specific amount is claimed in the complaint. With the
conclusion of the litigation with the Town of Jay, settlement discussions with
the State have resumed.
 
     On September 26, 1994, the EPA issued a Complaint and Compliance Order
alleging that a facility in Gulfport, Mississippi owned and operated by Arizona
Chemical Company ('Arizona'), wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, violated
regulations governing the burning of hazardous waste fuel in an industrial
boiler. The Complaint sought a civil penalty of $712,350. On September 29, 1995,
Arizona settled the matter on terms which included a civil penalty of $442,150.
 

     The United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of
Mississippi and EPA Region IV, are investigating Arizona through a Federal Grand
Jury. Arizona has been informed that it is a target of the investigation, which
relates to environmental issues at Arizona facilities in Gulfport and Picayune,
Mississippi. Arizona is cooperating with the investigation. EPA criminal
investigators have interviewed some of Arizona's current and former employees
with respect to the foregoing matters and several have testified before the
Federal Grand Jury. The Company and Arizona have also received Federal Grand
Jury subpoenas seeking production of documents relating to these matters, and
have complied with the subpoenas. We are unable to predict the outcome of the
investigation.
 

     The Company's majority owned subsidiary, Carter Holt Harvey has an indirect
shareholding of 30.05% in Chile's largest industrial company, Copec. This
shareholding is held through Carter Holt Harvey's joint venture in Los Andes
with Inversiones Socoroma S.A., a Chilean investment company ('Socoroma'). In
late 1993, Carter Holt Harvey commenced several actions in Chilean courts
challenging certain corporate governance documents of Los Andes, as well as
agreements between Carter Holt Harvey's subsidiary and Socoroma. In December
1994, Socoroma commenced an arbitration action seeking to expel Carter Holt
Harvey from Los Andes at a price which is less than the carrying value. Although
the Company believes that the eventual resolution of this Carter Holt Harvey
litigation should not have a material adverse effect on the Company, the actual
resolution of each of these actions cannot be predicted because of the
uncertainties involved in the litigation and arbitration proceedings.
 
     In 1989, Masonite Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
('Masonite'), modified a production line to make a new product at a facility in
Ukiah, California. The facility obtained the necessary Authority to Construct
permits from the appropriate State authority. In May 1992 the EPA, Region 9,
issued an order alleging that an additional Prevention of Significant
Deterioration permit was required for the new product line. On January 18, 1995,
a consent decree which resolves this matter was lodged with the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California. The consent decree includes a
civil penalty of $600,000. The consent decree was challenged by a citizen's
group and the decree has not yet been entered by the court.

     A lawsuit purporting to be a nationwide class action was filed against the
Company and Masonite, on December 27, 1994 in Mobile County Circuit Court,
Mobile, Alabama. This lawsuit alleges that hardboard siding, which is used as
exterior cladding for residential dwellings and is manufactured by Masonite,
fails prematurely, allowing moisture intrusion. It is further alleged that the
presence of moisture in turn causes the failure of the structure underneath the
siding. The class, which has been certified, consists of all owners of homes in
the United States having Masonite hardboard siding. It is impossible to know how
many homes may have this siding, but it is estimated that there are hundreds of
thousands. The Company and Masonite were unsuccessful in their attempt to remove
the case to the Federal District Court for the Southern District of Alabama on
diversity grounds. The case has been remanded to the Mobile County Circuit
Court. The Company and Masonite feel that there are valid defenses to this case
and will vigorously defend all claims asserted by the Plaintiff. While any
litigation has an element of uncertainty it is believed that the outcome of
these proceedings and lawsuit will not have a materially adverse effect on its
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
     As of March 30, 1996, there were no other pending judicial proceedings,
brought by governmental authorities against the Company, for alleged violations
of applicable environmental laws or regulations. The Company is engaged in
various administrative proceedings that arise under applicable environmental and
safety laws or regulations, including approximately 68 active proceedings under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
('CERCLA') and comparable state laws. Most of these proceedings involve the
cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received
waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is
authorized under the CERCLA, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA
cleanups is allocated among the many potential responsible parties. Based upon
previous experience with respect to the cleanup of hazardous substances and upon
presently available information, the Company believes that it has no or de
minimus liability with respect to 26 of these sites; that liability is not
likely to be significant at 26 sites; and that estimates of liability at 16 of
these sites is likely to be significant but not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
     The Company is also involved in other contractual disputes, administrative
and legal proceedings and investigations of various types. While any litigation,
proceeding or investigation has an element of uncertainty, the Company believes
that the outcome of any proceeding, lawsuit or claim that is pending or
threatened, or all of them combined, will not have a materially adverse effect
on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 


SPECIAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
                               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                            AS OF FEBRUARY 29, 1996

             INCLUDING NAME, AGE, OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD(1) AND
                 BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING THE PAST FIVE YEARS
 
     JOHN A. GEORGES, 65, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of
directors of the Company since 1985(2).
 
     JOHN T. DILLON, 57, president and chief operating officer(3). He was
executive vice president-packaging since 1987, until he assumed his current
position in 1995.
 
     W. MICHAEL AMICK, 55, executive vice president, forest products and
industrial packaging. He was vice president and group executive-specialty
industrial papers from 1988 to 1992, when he became president-International
Paper-Europe. He assumed his current position in February 1996.
 
     JAMES P. MELICAN, 55, executive vice president-legal and external affairs.
He assumed his current position in 1991.
 
     DAVID W. OSKIN, 53, executive vice president-consumer packaging and
specialty industrial papers since 1995. He held the position of senior vice
president from 1988 to 1992, when he became the chief executive officer and
managing director of Carter Holt Harvey Limited of New Zealand until his current
position.
 
     C. WESLEY SMITH, 56, executive vice president-printing papers. He was
elected president-International Paper Europe in 1989 and assumed his present
position in 1992.
 
     MILAN J. TURK, 57, executive vice president-specialty businesses. He was
vice president and group executive-specialty products from 1990 until 1993, when
he became senior vice president-specialty products. He assumed his current
position in February, 1996.
 
     ROBERT M. BYRNES, 58, senior vice president-human resources since 1989.
 
     MARIANNE M. PARRS, 51, senior vice president and chief financial officer
since 1995. She was controller-printing papers from 1985 to 1993 and then held
the position of staff vice president-tax until 1995.
 
     ANDREW R. LESSIN, 53, vice president and controller since 1995. Prior
thereto he was the controller since 1990.

     WILLIAM B. LYTTON, 47, vice president and general counsel. He was vice
president and general counsel for GE Aerospace from 1990 to 1993; vice president
and associate general counsel for Martin Marietta from 1993 to 1995; and vice
president and general counsel for Lockheed Martin Electronics from 1995 to 1996.
He assumed his current position in 1996.

- ------------------
(1) Executive officers of International Paper are elected to hold office until
    the next annual meeting of the board of directors following the annual
    meeting of shareholders and until election of successors, subject to removal
    by the board.
 
(2) Mr. Georges has announced his retirement as Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company, effective March 31, 1996. He will continue as a
    director of the Company.
 
(3) On April 1, 1996, Mr. Dillon will become the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of the Company.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.
 
     Dividend per share data on the Company's common stock and the high and low
sale prices for the Company's common stock for each of the four quarters in 1995
and 1994 are set forth on page 68 of the Annual Report and are incorporated
herein by reference.
 
     As of March 22, 1996, there were 33,719 holders of record of the Company's
common stock.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The comparative columnar table showing selected financial data for the
Company is set forth on pages 66 and 67 of the Annual Report and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
     Management's review and comments on the consolidated financial statements
are set forth on pages 10, 18, 24, 34, 40 and 44 through 48 of the Annual Report
and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
     The Company's consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and the
reports of the independent public accountants and Company management are set
forth on pages 51 through 65 of the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by
reference.
 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     The directors of the Company and their business experience are set forth on
pages 8 through 11 of the Company's Notice of 1996 Annual Meeting and Proxy
Statement, dated March 29, 1996 (the 'Proxy Statement') and are incorporated
herein by reference. The discussion of executive officers of the Company is
included in Part I under 'Executive Officers of the Company.'
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     A description of the compensation of the Company's executive officers is
set forth on pages 13, 14 and 16 through 19 of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     The Company knows of no one owning beneficially more than five percent (5%)
of the Company's common stock other than the State Street Bank and Trust Co.,
N.A., as Trustee of the Company's Salaried Savings Plan and Retirement Savings
Plan, respectively, which in the aggregate own 7.68% of the Company's shares of
common stock as of December 31, 1995. State Street Bank and Trust Co., N.A.
holds 8.46% of the Company's common stock and disclaims beneficial ownership of
the Company's common stock it holds as Trustee for the Company's benefit plans.
The table showing ownership of the Company's common stock by directors and by
directors and executive officers as a group is set forth on pages 6 and 7 of the
Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     In 1989, the Company announced that it had authorized the purchase, from
time to time, of additional shares of its common stock for use in the Company's
benefit and shareholder plans and for general corporate purposes. As of December
31, 1995, 9.8 million common shares may be repurchased under this program.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     None, other than those described under Item 11.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
     THIS 1995 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS CONCERNING PROJECTED COST SAVINGS AND PROFITABILITY OF INTERNATIONAL
PAPER. ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER BASED ON UNANTICIPATED CHANGES IN THE U.S. AND
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIES, PRICING AND DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS, RAW
MATERIAL COSTS, LOWER THAN ANTICIPATED SAVINGS FROM RESTRUCTURING AND
'WRITE-OFF' CHARGES, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED EFFICIENCIES FROM HIGH-PERFORMANCE
WORK SYSTEMS AND OTHER PRODUCTIVITY AND COST-OF-QUALITY INITIATIVES.
 


                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
EXHIBITS:
 
(10)  (a) Form of Termination Agreement, Tier I*
      (b) Form of Termination Agreement, Tier II*
      (c) Form of Termination Agreement, Tier III*
      (d) Revolving Credit Agreement, dated January 24, 1995**
(11)  Statement of Computation of Per Share Earnings
(12)  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
(13)  1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of the Company
(21)  List of Significant Subsidiaries
(22)  Proxy Statement, dated March 29, 1996
(23)  Consent of Independent Public Accountants
(24)  Power of Attorney
(27)  Financial Data Schedule
(99)  (a) Management Incentive Plan*
      (b) Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan*
      (c) Unfunded Savings Plan for Senior Managers**
      (d) Non-Funded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors**
 
- ------------------
 * Previously filed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended
   December 31, 1992.
 
** Previously filed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
   December 31, 1994.
 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company on November 13, 1995,
December 5, 1995, February 1, 1996, February 15, 1996, March 8, 1996 and March
27, 1996.
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
     The consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and common shareholders'
equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 1995 and the related Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the report thereon of Arthur
Andersen LLP, dated February 13, 1996, appearing on pages 51 through 65 of the
Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the
aforementioned information and the information incorporated by reference in
Items 1, 2 and 5 through 8, the Annual Report is not to be deemed filed as part
of this report. The following additional financial data should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in the Annual Report. Schedules not
included with this additional financial data have been omitted because they are
not applicable, or the required information is shown in the financial statements
or notes thereto.
 


                           ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL DATA
                              1995, 1994 AND 1993
 
Report of Independent Public Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule ... 13
 
Consolidated Schedule:
      II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts................................ 14
 

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
TO INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY:
 
     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's 1995 Annual
Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 13, 1996. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, N.Y.
February 13, 1996
 


                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
           INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

- ------------------
(A) Primarily write-offs, less recoveries, of accounts determined to be
    uncollectible.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
 
                                          By:          JAMES W. GUEDRY
                                                 JAMES W. GUEDRY, SECRETARY
 
March 29, 1996

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED:
 
                  NAME                            TITLE                DATE
- ----------------------------------------  ----------------------  --------------
            JOHN A. GEORGES               Chairman of the Board,  March 29, 1996
           (JOHN A. GEORGES)                 Chief Executive
                                           Officer and Director
 
            JOHN T. DILLON*               President and Director  March 29, 1996
            (JOHN T. DILLON)
 
            C. WESLEY SMITH*                  Executive Vice      March 29, 1996
           (C. WESLEY SMITH)              President and Director
 
          WILLARD C. BUTCHER*                    Director         March 29, 1996
          (WILLARD C. BUTCHER)
 
            ROBERT J. EATON*                     Director         March 29, 1996
           (ROBERT J. EATON)
 
           STANLEY C. GAULT*                     Director         March 29, 1996
           (STANLEY C. GAULT)
 
           THOMAS C. GRAHAM*                     Director         March 29, 1996
           (THOMAS C. GRAHAM)
 
           ARTHUR G. HANSEN*                     Director         March 29, 1996
           (ARTHUR G. HANSEN)
 
           DONALD F. MCHENRY*                    Director         March 29, 1996
          (DONALD F. MCHENRY)
 
           PATRICK F. NOONAN*                    Director         March 29, 1996
          (PATRICK F. NOONAN)
 
           JANE C. PFEIFFER*                     Director         March 29, 1996
           (JANE C. PFEIFFER)
 
         EDMUND T. PRATT, JR.*                   Director         March 29, 1996
         (EDMUND T. PRATT, JR.)
 


                  NAME                            TITLE                DATE
- ----------------------------------------  ----------------------  --------------
          CHARLES R. SHOEMATE*                   Director         March 29, 1996
         (CHARLES R. SHOEMATE)
 
            ROGER B. SMITH*                      Director         March 29, 1996
            (ROGER B. SMITH)
 
           MARIANNE M. PARRS              Senior Vice President   March 29, 1996
          (MARIANNE M. PARRS)              and Chief Financial
                                                 Officer
 
            ANDREW R. LESSIN                Vice President and    March 29, 1996
           (ANDREW R. LESSIN)              Controller and Chief
                                            Accounting Officer
 
*By         JAMES W. GUEDRY
   (JAMES W. GUEDRY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
 


                                                                      APPENDIX I
 
1995 LISTING OF FACILITIES
 
PRINTING PAPERS
BUSINESS PAPERS, COATED
  PAPERS AND PULP
  Domestic:
     Mobile, Alabama
     Selma, Alabama
       (Riverdale Mill)
     Camden, Arkansas
     Pine Bluff, Arkansas
     Bastrop, Louisiana
       (Louisiana Mill)
     Springhill, Louisiana
       (C & D Center)
     Jay, Maine
       (Androscoggin Mill)
     Miller Falls, Massachusetts
     West Springfield, Massachusetts
     Westfield, Massachusetts
       (C & D Center)
     Woronoco, Massachusetts
     Moss Point, Mississippi
     Natchez, Mississippi
     Corinth, New York
       (Hudson River Mill)
     Ticonderoga, New York
     Hamilton, Ohio
     Erie, Pennsylvania
     Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
     Georgetown, South Carolina

  International:
     Cali, Colombia
     Coloto, Colombia
     Clermont-Ferrand, France
       (Corimex Mill)
     Docelles, France
       (Lana Mill)
     Grenoble, France
       (Lancey and
       Pont De Claix Mills)
     Maresquel, France
     Saillat, France
     Saint Die, France
       (Anould Mill)
     Strasbourg, France
       (La Robertsau Mill)
     Bergisch Gladbach, Germany
       (Gorhrsmuhle Mill)

     Duren, Germany
       (Reflex Mill)
     Kinleith, New Zealand
     Mataura, New Zealand
     Kwidzyn, Poland
 
PACKAGING
CONTAINERBOARD
  Domestic:
     Mansfield, Louisiana
     Pineville, Louisiana
     Vicksburg, Mississippi
     Oswego, New York
     Gardiner, Oregon

  International:
     Arles, France
     Kinleith, New Zealand
     Penrose, New Zealand
 
CORRUGATED CONTAINER
  Domestic:
     Mobile, Alabama
     Russellville, Arkansas
     Carson, California
     Modesto, California
     San Jose, California
     Stockton, California
     Putnam, Connecticut
     Auburndale, Florida
     Chicago, Illinois
     Shreveport, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Detroit, Michigan
     Minneapolis, Minnesota
     Geneva, New York
     Tallman, New York
     Statesville, North Carolina
     Cincinnati, Ohio
     Wooster, Ohio
     Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania
     Georgetown, South Carolina
     Nashville, Tennessee
     Dallas, Texas
     Edinburg, Texas
     El Paso, Texas
     Delavan, Wisconsin
     Fond du Lac, Wisconsin

  International:
     Las Palmas, Canary Islands
     Suva, Fiji
     Arles, France
     Chalon-sur-Saone, France
     Chantilly, France
     Creil, France
     LePuy, France
     Mortagne, France
     Guadeloupe, French West
       Indies
     Bellusco, Italy
     Catania, Italy
     Pedemonte, Italy
     Pomezia, Italy
     San Felice, Italy
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Christchurch, New Zealand
     Dunedin, New Zealand
     Feilding, New Zealand
     Hamilton, New Zealand
     Hastings, New Zealand
     Invercargill, New Zealand
     Levin, New Zealand
     Nelson, New Zealand
     Barcelona, Spain
     Bilbao, Spain
     Valladolid, Spain
     Winsford, United Kingdom
 
     Fiber Converting Plants
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Nelson, New Zealand

BLEACHED BOARD
  Domestic:
     Pine Bluff, Arkansas
     Moss Point, Mississippi
     Georgetown, South
       Carolina
     Texarkana, Texas

  International:
     Whaketane, New Zealand

LIQUID PACKAGING
  Domestic:
     Turlock, California
     Plant City, Florida
     Atlanta, Georgia
     Cedar Rapids, Iowa
     Kansas City, Kansas
     Framingham, Massachusetts
     Kalamazoo, Michigan
     Raleigh, North Carolina
     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

  International:
     Itu, Brazil
     Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
     London, Ontario, Canada
     Longueuil, Quebec, Canada
     Santiago, Dominican Republic
     Perugia, Italy
     Kingston, Jamaica
     Tokyo, Japan
     Seoul, Korea
     Taipei, Taiwan
     Caracas, Venezuela
 
                                      A-1

FOLDING CARTON
  Domestic:
     Clinton, lowa
     Hopkinsville, Kentucky
     Cincinnati, Ohio
     Richmond, Virginia

  International:
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Christchurch, New Zealand
     Palmerston North,
       New Zealand
 
LABEL
     Commerce, California
     Bowling Green, Kentucky
 
KRAFT PAPER
     Mobile, Alabama
     Camden, Arkansas
     Moss Point, Mississippi
 
GROCERY BAGS & SACKS
     Mobile, Alabama
     Jackson, Tennessee

MULTIWALL BAGS
  Domestic:
     Camden, Arkansas
     Pittsburg, Kansas
     Wilmington, Ohio

  International:
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Palmerston North,
       New Zealand
 
PLASTIC PACKAGING
  Domestic:
     Janesville, Wisconsin

  International:
     Santiago, Chile
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Christchurch, New Zealand
     Hamilton, New Zealand
     Hastings, New Zealand
     Wellington, New Zealand
 
DISTRIBUTION
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DISTRIBUTION
(303 distribution branches)
  ResourceNet International
     Domestic:
     Stores Group
       Chicago, Illinois
       142 locations nationwide
     Dillard Paper
       Greensboro, North Carolina
       21 branches in the Middle
       Atlantic States and
       Southeast
     Dixon Paper Company
       Denver, Colorado
       12 branches in the West
       and Midwest
     Specialty Business Group
       Erlanger, Kentucky
       12 branches in
       New England and
       Middle Atlantic
       States, Midwest,
       South and West
     Ingram Paper
       City of Industry, California
       7 locations in the
       Southwest and Hawaii

     Kirk Paper Company
       Downey, California
       4 locations in the
       West, Southwest,
       and Northwest
     Leslie Paper
       Minneapolis, Minnesota
       12 locations in the
       Midwest
     Northeast Region
       Erlanger, Kentucky
       43 branches
       in New England,
       Middle Atlantic States,
       Midwest and
       District of Columbia
     Western Pacific
       Portland, Oregon
       2 locations in
       the Northwest
     Western Paper Company
       Overland Park, Kansas
       23 branches in the West,
       Midwest and South
 
  International:
     Chihuahua,
       Chihuahua, Mexico
       3 locations

  Other International:
     Aussedat Rey France
       Distribution S.A., Pantin,
          France
     Recom Papers
       Nijmegen, Netherlands
     Scaldia Papier BV,
       Nijmegen, Netherlands
     Aalbers Paper Products
       Veenendaal, Netherlands
     Paper Merchant, Warehousing
       and Distribution Centers,
       15 locations in
       New Zealand and
       3 locations in
       Australia

FOREST PRODUCTS
FORESTLANDS
  Domestic:
     Approximately 6.0 million
     acres in the South, Northeast
     and Northwest

  International:
     Approximately 800,000 acres
     in New Zealand
 
WOOD PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Maplesville, Alabama
     Tuscaloosa, Alabama
     Gurdon, Arkansas
     Leola, Arkansas
     Whelen Springs, Arkansas
     DeRidder, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Morton, Mississippi
     Wiggins, Mississippi
     Joplin, Missouri
     Pleasant Hill, Missouri
     Madison, New Hampshire
     Pilot Rock, Oregon
     Sampit, South Carolina
     Henderson, Texas
     Mineola, Texas
     Nacogdoches, Texas
     New Boston, Texas
     Danville, Virginia
     Building Products
       Ukiah, California
       Lisbon Falls, Maine
       Laurel, Mississippi
       Towanda, Pennsylvania
     Fiberboard
       Spring Hope,
          North Carolina
       Marion, South Carolina
     Particleboard
       Stuart, Virginia
       Waverly, Virginia
     Slaughter
       Dallas, Texas
       2 branches in the
       Southwest and Northwest
 
                                      A-2


  International:
     INTAMASA
       Cella, Spain
     Masonite Africa Limited
       Estcourt Plant
     Myrtleford,
       New South Wales,
       Australia
     Mt. Druit, New South
       Wales, Australia
     Benella,
       Victoria, Australia
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Kopu, New Zealand
     Kumeu, New Zealand
     Marton, New Zealand
     Nelson, New Zealand
     Putaruru, New Zealand
     Rangiora, New Zealand
     Rotorua, New Zealand
     Taupo, New Zealand
     Thames, New Zealand
     Topuni, New Zealand
     Tokoroa, New Zealand
     Building Supply
       Retail Outlets, 34 branches
       in New Zealand
 
REALTY PROJECTS
  Haig Point Plantation
     Daufuskie Island, South Carolina
 
SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
TISSUE
  Mills:
     Box Hill,
       Victoria, Australia
     Myrtleford,
       Victoria, Australia
     Kawerau, New Zealand

  Plants:
     Box Hill,
       Victoria, Australia
     Clayton,
       Victoria, Australia
     Keon Park,
       Victoria, Australia
     Auckland, New Zealand
     (three plants)
     Christchurch, New Zealand
     Te Rapa, New Zealand

NONWOVENS
  Domestic:
     Athens, Georgia
     Griswoldville, Massachusetts
     Walpole, Massachusetts
     Lewisburg, Pennsylvania
     Bethune, South Carolina
     Green Bay, Wisconsin

  International:
     Liege, Belgium
     Toronto, Ontario, Canada
     Yokohama, Japan
     San Jose Ituebide, Mexico

IMAGING PRODUCTS
  Domestic:
     Jacksonville, Florida
     Holyoke, Massachusetts
     Binghamton, New York

  International:
     Melbourne, Australia
     Saint-Priest, France
     Munich, Germany
     Mobberley, Great Britain
     Morley, Great Britain
     Fribourg, Switzerland
 
CHEMICALS
  Domestic:
     Panama City, Florida
     Pensacola, Florida
     Port St. Joe, Florida
     Oakdale, Louisiana
     Springhill, Louisiana
     Gulfport, Mississippi
     Picayune, Mississippi

  International:
     Niort, France
     Sandarne, Sweden
     Greaker, Norway

PETROLEUM
  Alvin, Texas
  Houston, Texas
  Midland, Texas
  Orange, Texas

SPECIALTY PANELS
  Domestic:
     Chino, California
     Ukiah, California
     Cordele, Georgia
     Glasgow, Kentucky
     Louisville, Kentucky
     Monticello, Kentucky
     (2 plants)
     Odenton, Maryland
     Laurel, Mississippi
     Statesville, North Carolina
     Tarboro, North Carolina
     Towanda, Pennsylvania
     Hampton, South Carolina
     Waverly, Virginia
     Oshkosh, Wisconsin

  International:
     Pori, Finland
     Bergerac, France
     (Couze Mill)
     Ussel, France
     Barcelona, Spain
     (Durion Mill)
 
BUILDING PRODUCTS
  FLOORING
     Sydney, New South
       Wales, Australia

  INSULATION
     Minto, New South
       Wales, Australia
     Sydney, New South
       Wales, Australia
     Auckland, New Zealand
     Christchurch, New Zealand

  ROOFING
     Corona, California
     Auckland, New Zealand

  SINKWARE AND ALUMINIUM PRODUCTS
     Adelaide, South Australia
     Auckland, New Zealand

SPECIALTY PAPERS
  Thilmany
     Knoxville, Tennessee
     Kaukauna, Wisconsin
  Nicolet
     De Pere, Wisconsin
  Jay, Maine
     (Androscoggin Mill)
  Akrosil
       Domestic:
          Menasha, Wisconsin
          Lancaster, Ohio
       International:
          Toronto, Canada
          Limburg, Netherlands
 
                                      A-3

                                    [LOGO]
 
            PRINTED ON HAMMERMILL PAPERS ACCENT OPAQUE, 50 LBS.
            HAMMERMILL PAPERS IS A DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER.


