
10-K
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                             ---------------------
 
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997               COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3157
                            ------------------------
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
              (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)
 

 
                            TWO MANHATTANVILLE ROAD,
                                 PURCHASE, N.Y.
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   (Zip Code)
 
         COMPANY'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 914-397-1500
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE COMPANY (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE COMPANY
WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.  YES /X/  NO / /
 
    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405, OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO
THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION
STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY
AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.  / /
 
    THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE COMMON STOCK OF THE COMPANY OUTSTANDING AS
OF FEBRUARY 27, 1998, HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE COMPANY WAS $14,043,803,601,
CALCULATED ON THE BASIS OF THE CLOSING PRICE ON THE COMPOSITE TAPE ON FEBRUARY
27, 1998. FOR THIS COMPUTATION, THE COMPANY HAS EXCLUDED THE MARKET VALUE OF ALL
COMMON STOCK BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY ALL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE
COMPANY AND THEIR ASSOCIATES AS A GROUP AND TREASURY STOCK. SUCH EXCLUSION IS
NOT TO SIGNIFY IN ANY WAY THAT MEMBERS OF THIS GROUP ARE "AFFILIATES" OF THE
COMPANY.
 
    THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK, AS OF
FEBRUARY 27, 1998:
 

 
    The following documents are incorporated by reference into the parts of this
report indicated below:
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
    International Paper Company, (referred to subsequently as the "Company" or
"International Paper") a New York corporation incorporated in 1941 as the
successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898, is a
global paper and forest products company that produces printing and writing
papers, pulp, tissue, paperboard and packaging and wood products. It also
manufactures nonwovens; specialty chemicals; and specialty panels and laminated
products. The Company's primary markets and manufacturing and distribution
operations are in the United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim.
 
    In the United States at December 31, 1997, the Company operated 26 pulp,
paper and packaging mills, 59 converting and packaging plants, 32 wood products
facilities, 13 specialty panels and laminated products plants, 6 nonwoven
products facilities, and 6 specialty chemicals plants. Production facilities at
December 31, 1997 in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada included 13 pulp,
paper and packaging mills, 33 converting and packaging plants, one wood products
plant, 5 specialty panels and laminated products plants, 2 nonwoven products
facilities, and 5 specialty chemicals plants. The Company distributes printing,
packaging, graphic arts and industrial supply products, primarily manufactured
by other companies, through over 300 distribution branches located primarily in
the United States, and also engages in oil and gas and real estate activities in
the United States. At December 31, 1997, the Company controlled approximately
6.3 million acres of forestlands in the United States.
 
    Through its acquisition of Carter Holt Harvey, the Company, primarily in New
Zealand and Australia, operates 6 mills producing pulp, paper, packaging and
tissue products, 26 converting and packaging facilities, 53 wood products
manufacturing and distribution facilities, and 8 building products plants.
Carter Holt Harvey distributes paper and packaging products through 20
distribution branches located in New Zealand and Australia. In New Zealand,
Carter Holt Harvey controls approximately 845,000 acres of forestlands.
 
    In September 1997 the Company acquired Merbok Formtec, a company that has
pioneered the development of doorfacing products through postforming medium
density fiberboard. In November 1997, the stock of Taussig Graphics Supply,
Inc., was acquired.
 
    On March 12, 1996, the Company completed the merger with Federal Paper Board
(Federal), a diversified forest and paper products company. Under the terms of
the merger agreement, Federal shareholders received, at their election and
subject to certain limitations, either $55 in cash or a combination of cash and
International Paper common stock worth $55 for each share of Federal common
stock. To complete the merger, Federal shares were acquired for approximately
$1.3 billion in cash and $1.4 billion in International Paper common stock, and
approximately $800 million of debt was assumed.
 
    In August 1996 the Company acquired Forchem, a tall oil and turpentine
processor in Finland. In September 1996 Carter Holt Harvey, a consolidated
subsidiary, acquired Forwood Products, the timber processing business of the
South Australian government.
 
    In late April 1995 the Company acquired approximately 26% of Carter Holt
Harvey, a New Zealand-based forest and paper products company for $1.1 billion.
The acquisition increased International Paper's ownership to just over 50%. As a
result, Carter Holt Harvey was consolidated into International Paper's financial
statements beginning on May 1, 1995. Prior to this date the equity accounting
method was utilized.
 
    In January 1995 the assets of both Seaman-Patrick and Carpenter Paper
Companies, two Michigan-based paper distribution companies, were acquired by
issuing approximately 988,000 shares of common stock. In September, Micarta, the
South Carolina-based high-pressure laminates business of Westinghouse,
 

was acquired. In October, the Company purchased the inks and adhesives resin
business of DSM located in Niort, France.
 
    All of the 1997, 1996 and 1995 acquisitions were accounted for using the
purchase method. The operating results of these mergers and acquisitions have
been included in the consolidated statement of earnings from the dates of
acquisition.
 
    A further discussion of mergers and acquisitions can be found on pages 26,
27 and 39 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
    From 1991 through 1997, International Paper's capital expenditures
approximated $8.7 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These
expenditures reflect the continuing efforts to improve product quality and
environmental performance, lower costs, expand production capacity, and acquire
and improve forestlands. Capital spending in 1997 was approximately $1.1 billion
and is budgeted to be approximately $1.1 billion in 1998. A further discussion
of capital expenditures can be found on page 26 of the Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    The Company, primarily through its majority-owned subsidiary, IP
Timberlands, Ltd. ("IPT"), a Texas limited partnership, controlled approximately
6.3 million acres of forestlands in the United States at December 31, 1997. IPT
controlled approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the United States
at December 31, 1997. IPT was formed to succeed to substantially all of
International Paper's forestlands business for the period 1985 through 2035
unless earlier terminated. Through its ownership of Carter Holt Harvey,
International Paper controls approximately 845,000 acres of forestlands in New
Zealand.
 
    In June 1997, a $535 million pre-tax business improvement reserve ($385
million after taxes or $1.28 per share) was established under a plan to improve
the Company's financial performance through closing or divesting of operations
that no longer meet financial or strategic objectives. It included approximately
$230 million for asset write-downs, $210 million for the estimated losses on
sales of businesses included in the reserve and $95 million for severance and
other expenses. Approximately $28 million of these costs were incurred in 1997.
The majority of the reserve relates to the restructuring of the printing papers
business in the United States and overseas and the sale of certain specialty
businesses. Annual improvement in earnings before interest and income taxes of
approximately $100 million is expected by the end of 1998. A further discussion
of restructuring activities can be found on pages 22 and 23 of the Annual
Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    Also in June 1997, the Company recorded a $150 million pre-tax charge ($93
million after taxes or $.31 per share) to add to its legal reserves. On July 14,
1997, Masonite Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary, announced that it had
reached a proposed settlement in a class action pending in Mobile County,
Alabama. The Company believes its legal reserves are adequate to cover any
amounts to be paid pursuant to the proposed settlement, which is now final. For
a further discussion of the Masonite legal settlement, see pages 28, 40 and 42
of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    In December 1997, an additional pre-tax charge of $125 million ($80 million
after taxes or $.26 per share) was recorded for anticipated losses associated
with the sale of the remaining imaging businesses.
 
    On March 29, 1996, IPT completed the sale of a 98% general partnership
interest in a subsidiary partnership that owns approximately 300,000 acres of
forestlands located in Oregon and Washington. Included in the net assets of the
partnership interest sold were forestlands, roads and $750 million of long-term
debt. As a result of this transaction, International Paper recognized in its
first-quarter consolidated results a $592 million pre-tax gain ($336 million
after taxes and minority interest expense or $1.25 per share). IPT and
International Paper retained nonoperating interests in the partnership. In
December 1997, these retained interests were redeemed, and a related debt
guaranty was released resulting in a pre-tax gain of $170 million ($97 million
after taxes and minority interest expense or $.32 per share).
 

    Also in the first quarter of 1996, the Company's Board of Directors
authorized a series of management actions to restructure and strengthen existing
businesses that resulted in a pre-tax charge to earnings of $515 million ($362
million after taxes or $1.35 per share). The charge included $305 million for
the write-off of certain assets, $100 million for asset impairments (related to
the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed
Of"), $80 million in associated severance costs and $30 million of other
expenses, including the cancellation of leases. Accruals for one-time cash
costs, which included severance and other expenses, totaled $110 million.
Approximately $34 million of these costs were incurred in 1996 and substantially
all of the remainder was spent in 1997.
 
    In the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company recorded a $165 million pre-tax
charge ($105 million after taxes or $.35 per share) for the write-down of its
investment in Scitex, a company that markets digital communication products, and
to record its share of a restructuring charge announced by Scitex in November
1996.
 
    On March 10, 1998, IP Forest Resources Company, a subsidiary of
International Paper, announced that it will exercise its right to purchase all
of the 7,299,500 publicly traded Class A Depositary Units of IP Timberlands Ltd
on March 25, 1998 for a purchase price of $13.6325 per unit.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
    The financial information concerning segments is set forth on pages 22
through 26 and 32 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
 
    The financial information concerning international and domestic operations
and export sales is set forth on page 31 of the Annual Report, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION AND COSTS
 
    Despite the size of the Company's manufacturing capacities for paper,
paperboard, packaging and pulp products, the markets in all of the cited product
lines are large and highly fragmented. The markets for wood and specialty
products are similarly large and fragmented. There are numerous competitors, and
the major markets, both domestic and international, in which the Company sells
its principal products are very competitive. These products are in competition
with similar products produced by others, and in some instances, with products
produced by other industries from other materials.
 
    Many factors influence the Company's competitive position, including prices,
costs, product quality and services. Information on the impact of prices and
costs on operating profits is contained on pages 22 through 30 of the Annual
Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
    Paper and packaging products are sold through the Company's own sales
organization directly to users or converters for manufacture. Sales offices are
located throughout the United States as well as internationally. Significant
volumes of products are also sold through paper merchants and distributors,
including facilities in the Company's distribution network.
 
    The Company's U.S. production of lumber and plywood is marketed through
independent and Company-owned distribution centers. Specialty products are
marketed through various channels of distribution.
 

DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS
 
    The Company's principal products are described on pages 4 through 8 of the
Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    Production of major products for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was as follows:
 
                             PRODUCTION BY PRODUCTS
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(A) This excludes market pulp purchases.
 
(B) A significant portion of this tonnage was fabricated from paperboard and
    paper produced at the Company's own mills and included in the
    containerboard, bleached packaging board and industrial papers amounts in
    this table.
 
(C) Panels include plywood and oriented strand board.
 
(D) Includes Federal Paper Board from March 12, 1996, and Carter Holt Harvey for
    a full year.
 
(E) Includes amounts for Carter Holt Harvey as applicable since May 1, 1995.
 
(F) Certain reclassifications and adjustments have been made to current- and
    prior-year amounts.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
    The Company operates research and development centers at Sterling Forest,
New York; metropolitan Cincinnati, Ohio; Panama City, Florida; Erie,
Pennsylvania; Kaukauna, Wisconsin; Binghamton, New York; South Walpole,
Massachusetts; St. Charles, Illinois; Holyoke, Massachusetts; Odenton, Maryland;
Morley, United Kingdom; Munich, Germany; Saint-Priest, France; Annecy, France; a
regional center for applied forest research in Bainbridge, Georgia; a forest
biotechnology center in Rotorua, New Zealand; and several product laboratories.
Research and development activities are directed to short-term, long-term and
technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions; process,
equipment and product innovations; and improvement of profits through tree
generation and propagation research. Activities include studies on improved
forest species and management; innovation and improvement of pulping,
 

bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking and coating processes; packaging
design and materials development; reduction of environmental discharges; re-use
of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging
paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to
manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and
development of various new products. Product development efforts specifically
address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to
the Company of its research and development operations was $99.9 million in
1997, $112.5 million in 1996 and $110.8 million in 1995.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
 
    Controlling pollutants discharged into the air, water and groundwater to
avoid adverse impacts on the environment, making continual improvements in
environmental performance and achieving 100% compliance with applicable laws and
regulations are continuing objectives of the Company. The Company has invested
substantial funds to modify facilities to assure compliance, and plans to make
substantial capital expenditures for this purpose in the future.
 
    A total of $90 million was spent in 1997 to control environmental releases
into the air and water and to assure environmentally sound disposal of solid and
hazardous waste. The Company expects to spend approximately $105 million in 1998
for similar capital programs. Amounts to be spent for environmental control
projects in future years will depend on new laws and regulations, changes in
legal requirements and changes in environmental concerns. Taking these
uncertainties into account, the Company's preliminary estimate for additional
environmental appropriations during the period 1999 through 2000 is
approximately $350 million.
 
    In November 1997, the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA")
published on the internet new pulp and paper mill standards for air emissions
and water discharges to be met three to eight years after final promulgation
(the "Cluster Regulations"). Final promulgation will occur when the regulations
are published in the Federal Register which is expected to occur in April of
1998. The estimated spending for 1998 through 2000 includes the cost of these
regulations as well as other environmental projects. The Company has spent $145
million over the last four years to convert 13 of its U.S. and European bleached
mills to Elemental Chlorine Free ("ECF") pulping, one of the requirements of the
Cluster Regulations, and for certain other environmental projects related to the
Cluster Regulations. Two former Federal Paperboard mills will be converted to
ECF pulping in 1998. The additional cost related to the Cluster Regulations for
the three years 1998 to 2000 is estimated to be $230 million. Projected costs
for the following five years are $180 million. The final cost depends on the
outcome of Cluster water regulations for pulp and paper subcategories other than
bleached papergrade kraft. Regulations for these subcategories are not likely to
become final until late 1999 or 2000.
 
    The Company now estimates that annual operating costs, excluding
depreciation, will increase approximately $20 million when these regulations are
fully implemented.
 
    The Company expects the significant effort it has made in the analysis of
environmental issues and the development of environmental control technology to
enable it to keep costs for compliance with environmental regulations, at, or
below, industry averages.
 
    A further discussion of environmental issues can be found on page 28 of the
Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    Additional information is available in the Company's annual environmental
health and safety report published in October of 1997.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    As of December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately 82,000 employees, of
whom approximately 54,000 were located in the United States and the remainder
overseas. Of the domestic employees,
 

approximately 37,000 are hourly employees, approximately 17,000 of whom are
represented by the United Paperworkers International Union.
 
    During 1997, new labor agreements were reached at the following mills:
Augusta, Sprague, Gardiner, Mobile, Riverdale, Oswego, Millers Falls and
Vicksburg. During 1998, labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated at the
Louisiana, Moss Point and Pine Bluff mills, and in 1999, the Erie Mill.
 
    During 1997, labor agreements expired in seven packaging plants and two
distribution operations. New labor agreements were negotiated at each location,
except three packaging plants where negotiations were still in progress at year
end; one additional packaging plant has a contract open from a previous year.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
    For information as to the sources and availability of raw materials
essential to the Company's business, see Item 2 "PROPERTIES."
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
FORESTLANDS
 
    The principal raw material used by International Paper is wood in various
forms. At December 31, 1997, the Company controlled approximately 6.3 million
acres of forestlands in the United States. Of this acreage, IP Timberlands, Ltd.
("IPT"), a limited partnership in which the Company has a majority ownership
interest, controlled approximately 5.6 million acres of forestlands in the U.S.
An additional 845,000 acres of forestlands in New Zealand are held through
Carter Holt Harvey, a consolidated subsidiary of International Paper.
 
    During 1997, the U.S. forestlands supplied 2.4 million cords of roundwood to
the Company's U.S. facilities. This amounted to the following percentages of the
roundwood requirements of its mills and forest products facilities: 13% in its
Northern mills, 21% in its Southern mills and none in its Western mill. The
balance was acquired from other private industrial and nonindustrial forestland
owners, with only an insignificant amount coming from public lands of the United
States government. In addition, 3.9 million cords of wood were sold to other
users in 1997. In November 1994, the Company adopted the Sustainable Forestry
Principles developed by the American Forest and Paper Association in August
1994.
 
MILLS AND PLANTS
 
    A listing of the Company's production facilities can be found in Appendix I
hereto, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
    The Company's facilities are in good operating condition and are suited for
the purposes for which they are presently being used. The Company continues to
study the economics of modernizing or adopting other alternatives for higher
cost facilities. Further discussions of new mill and plant projects can be found
on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
    Given the size, scope and complexity of its business interests,
International Paper continuously examines and evaluates a wide variety of
business opportunities and planning alternatives, including possible
acquisitions and sales or other dispositions of properties. Planned capital
investments for 1998, dispositions, and restructuring activities as of December
31, 1997 are set forth on pages 22, 23, 26 and 40 of the Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
MASONITE LITIGATION
 
    A lawsuit which was certified as a nationwide class action and was filed
against the Company and Masonite Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, ("Masonite"), on December 27, 1994, in Mobile County Circuit Court,
Mobile, Alabama has been settled. This lawsuit alleged that hardboard siding,
which is used as exterior cladding for residential dwellings and is manufactured
by Masonite, fails prematurely, allowing moisture intrusion. It alleged further
that the presence of moisture in turn causes the failure of the structure
underneath the siding. The class consists of all owners of homes in the United
States having Masonite hardboard siding incorporated into buildings between 1980
and January 15, 1988. It is impossible to know how many homes have this siding,
but it is estimated that there are between three and four million. As previously
reported, a Phase I trial was conducted in August and September of 1996 to
determine the sole issue of inherent product defect. The jury, in attempting to
apply the various laws of all the states on a nationwide basis, returned a mixed
decision that found in favor of the Company and Masonite in some jurisdictions
and in favor of the plaintiffs in other jurisdictions. As also previously
reported, a Phase II trial was set for July 14, 1997, on the remaining issues in
the case. The Phase II trial was not conducted owing to the settlement.
 
    Final approval of the settlement was granted by the Mobile County Circuit
Court on January 15, 1998. The settlement provides for monetary compensation to
class members meeting the requirements of the settlement agreement on a
claims-made basis for a period of seven years for those having Masonite
hardboard siding manufactured between 1980 and 1989 and for a period of ten
years for those having Masonite hardboard siding manufactured between 1990 and
January 15, 1998, with certain specified deductions based on years of use. The
settlement also provides for the payment of attorneys' fees equaling fifteen
percent of settlement amounts paid to class members, with a non-refundable
advance of $47.5 million plus $2.5 million in costs. While the total cost of the
settlement is not presently known with certainty, it is believed that this
settlement will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operation. The Company and Masonite have the
right, in their sole discretion, to terminate this settlement after seven years
from the date of final approval.
 
OTHER LITIGATION
 
    As of March 30, 1998, there were no other pending judicial proceedings
brought by governmental authorities against the Company for alleged violations
of applicable environmental laws or regulations. The Company is engaged in
various administrative proceedings that arise under applicable environmental and
safety laws or regulations, including approximately 73 active proceedings under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA") and comparable state laws. Most of these proceedings involve the
cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received
waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is
authorized under the CERCLA, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA
cleanups is allocated among the many potential responsible parties. Based upon
previous experience with respect to the cleanup of hazardous substances and upon
presently available information, the Company believes that it has no or DE
MINIMIS liability with respect to 17 of these sites; that liability is not
likely to be significant at 45 sites; and that estimates of liability at 11 of
these sites is likely to be significant but not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
    The Company's majority-owned subsidiary, Carter Holt Harvey, has an indirect
shareholding of 30.05% in Chile's largest industrial company, COPEC. This
shareholding is held through Carter Holt Harvey's joint venture in Los Andes
with Inversiones Socoroma S.A., a Chilean investment company ("Socoroma"). In
late 1993, Carter Holt Harvey commenced several actions in Chilean courts
challenging certain corporate governance documents of Los Andes, as well as
agreements between Carter Holt Harvey's subsidiary and Socoroma. One such
action, challenging the validity of the by-laws of Los Andes, is
 

still pending. In December 1994, Socoroma commenced an arbitration action
seeking to expel Carter Holt Harvey from Los Andes at a price which is less than
the carrying value. The decision of the arbitrator is expected in the first
quarter of 1998. Although the Company believes that the eventual resolution of
this Carter Holt Harvey litigation should not have a material adverse effect on
the Company, the actual resolution of each of these actions cannot be predicted
because of the uncertainties involved in the litigation and arbitration
proceedings.
 
    The Company is also involved in other contractual disputes, administrative
and legal proceedings and investigations of various types. While any litigation,
proceeding or investigation has an element of uncertainty, the Company believes
that the outcome of any proceeding, lawsuit or claim that is pending or
threatened, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on
its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.
 
SPECIAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
                          INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
                               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                              AS OF MARCH 30, 1998
             INCLUDING NAME, AGE, OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD(1) AND
                 BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING THE PAST FIVE YEARS
 
    John T. Dillon, 59, chairman and chief executive officer since 1996. Prior
to that he was executive vice president-packaging from 1987 to 1995 when he
assumed the position of president and chief operating officer.
 
    C. Wesley Smith, 58, executive vice president-printing papers since 1992.
Prior thereto he was president-International Paper Europe from 1989.
 
    W. Michael Amick, 57, executive vice president-forest products and
industrial packaging. He was vice president and group executive-specialty
industrial papers from 1988 to 1992, when he became president-International
Paper-Europe. He assumed his current position in February 1996.
 
    James P. Melican, Jr., 57, executive vice president-legal and external
affairs. He assumed his current position in 1991.
 
    David W. Oskin, 55, executive vice president, consumer packaging and
specialty industrial papers since 1995. He held the position of senior vice
president from 1988 to 1992, when he became the chief executive officer and
managing director of Carter Holt Harvey Limited of New Zealand until his current
position.
 
    Milan J. Turk, 59, executive vice president, specialty businesses. He was
vice president and group executive-specialty products from 1990 until 1993, when
he became senior vice president-specialty products. He assumed his current
position in February, 1996.
 
    Robert M. Byrnes, 60, senior vice president, human resources since 1989.
 
    Thomas E. Costello, 58, senior vice president-distribution businesses since
March 1997. Prior to that he was president-ResourceNet International, the
Company's distribution business since 1991.
 

    Douglas B. Fox, 50, senior vice president, marketing since 1997. He was
president and chief operating officer of Landmark Communication from 1994 to
1995; and was an executive with The Times Mirror Company from 1987 to 1994,
holding a variety of positions of increasing responsibility, including president
and chief operating officer of Newsday/New York Newsday.
 
    Marianne M. Parrs, 54, senior vice president and chief financial officer
since 1995. She was controller-printing papers from 1985 to 1993 and then held
the position of staff vice president-tax until 1995.
 
    Andrew R. Lessin, 55, vice president and controller since 1995. Prior
thereto he was the controller since 1990.
 
    William B. Lytton, 49, vice president and general counsel. He was vice
president and general counsel for GE Aerospace from 1990 to 1993; vice president
and associate general counsel for Martin Marietta from 1993 to 1995; and vice
president and general counsel for Lockheed Martin Electronics from 1995 to 1996.
He assumed his current position in 1996.
 
- ------------------------
 
(1)  Executive officers of International Paper are elected to hold office until
    the next annual meeting of the board of directors following the annual
    meeting of shareholders and until election of successors, subject to removal
    by the board.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
       AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
    Dividend per share data on the Company's common stock and the high and low
sale prices for the Company's common stock for each of the four quarters in 1997
and 1996 are set forth on page 50 of the Annual Report and are incorporated
herein by reference.
 
    As of March 20, 1998, there were 32,384 holders of record of the Company's
common stock.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    The comparative columnar table showing selected financial data for the
Company is set forth on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
       AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
    Management's review and comments on the consolidated financial statements
are set forth on pages 22 through 30 of the Annual Report and are incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
    Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are set forth on
pages 29 and 30 of the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
    The Company's consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and the
reports of the independent public accountants and Company management are set
forth on pages 33 through 47 of the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
       ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    None
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The directors of the Company and their business experience are set forth on
pages 8 through 11 of the Company's Notice of 1998 Annual Meeting and Proxy
Statement, dated March 30, 1998 (the "Proxy Statement") and are incorporated
herein by reference. The discussion of executive officers of the Company is
included in Part I of this report under "Executive Officers of the Company."
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    A description of the compensation of the Company's executive officers is set
forth on pages 14 through 17 and 20 through 27 of the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    The Company knows of no one owning beneficially more than five percent (5%)
of the Company's common stock other than the following:
 

 
    As of December 31, 1997, State Street Bank & Trust Co., N.A. holds such
shares as the independent trustee in trust funds for employee savings, thrift,
and similar employee benefit plans of the Company and its subsidiaries ("Company
Trust Funds"). In addition, State Street Bank & Trust Co., N.A. is trustee for
various third party trusts and employee benefit plans and is an Investment
Advisor. As a result of its holdings in all capacities, State Street Bank &
Trust Co., N.A. is the record holder of 24,628,312 shares of common stock of the
Company. The trustee disclaims beneficial ownership of all such shares except
3,530,000 shares of which it has sole power to dispose or to direct the
disposition. The common stock held by the Company Trust Funds is allocated to
participants' accounts and such stock or the cash equivalent will be distributed
to participants upon termination of employment or pursuant to withdrawal rights.
The trustee votes the shares of common stock held in the Company Trust Funds in
accordance with the instructions of the participants; shares for which no
instructions are received are voted proportionately to those shares voted by
participants.
 

 
    As of January 31, 1998, Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. is a parent holding
company and a broker-dealer registered under Section 15 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act"). They, or subsidiaries, hold these shares
primarily as sponsor to various registered investment companies, but disclaim
beneficial ownership thereof other than certain of which are held in proprietary
accounts.
 

 
    As of December 31, 1997, the Capital Group Companies, Inc. holds such shares
as the parent holding company of a group of investment management companies
(including Capital Research and Management Company). The Capital Group
Companies, Inc. does not have investment power or voting power over any of the
securities reported here; however, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. may be
deemed to "beneficially own" such securities by virtue of Rule 13d-3 under the
Act. Capital Research and Management Company, an investment adviser registered
under Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, is the beneficial
owner of these shares as a result of acting as investment adviser to various
investment companies registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act of
1940.
 

 
    The table showing ownership of the Company's common stock held by directors
and by directors and executive officers as a group is set forth on page 6 of the
Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    None, other than those described under Item 11. It is noted that in June
1997, the Company sold 825 acres of land near Killington, Vermont to the
Conservation Fund for later disposition to the State of Vermont for conservation
and recreational use. The sale price was $424,875 which was the market value of
the land. Mr. Noonan, a director of the Company, is chairman and chief executive
officer of the Conservation Fund.
 

                          FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
    THIS 1997 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS CONCERNING PROJECTED IMPROVEMENT IN EARNINGS AT INTERNATIONAL PAPER.
ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER BASED PRIMARILY ON OVERALL DEMAND AND WHETHER PRICE
INCREASES FOR VARIOUS PAPER AND PACKAGING PRODUCTS CAN BE REALIZED IN 1998, AND
WHETHER ANTICIPATED SAVINGS FROM RESTRUCTURING, THE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
AND OTHER INITIATIVES ARE ACHIEVED. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ALSO INCLUDES CONCLUSIONS
AS TO VALUE AT RISK ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. RESULTS MAY DIFFER
BASED ON ACTUAL MOVEMENTS IN INTEREST AND CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company on January 13, 1998,
and on January 20, 1998.
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
    The consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and common shareholders'
equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 1997 and the related Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the report thereon of Arthur
Andersen LLP, dated February 6, 1998, appearing on pages 33 through 47 of the
Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the
aforementioned information and the information incorporated by reference in
Items 1, 2 and 5 through 8, the Annual Report is not to be deemed filed as part
of this report. The following additional financial data should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in the Annual Report. Schedules not
included with this additional financial data have been omitted because they are
not applicable, or the required information is shown in the financial statements
or notes thereto.
 
                           ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL DATA
                              1997, 1996 AND 1995
 

 

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
To International Paper Company:
 
    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's 1997 Annual
Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 6, 1998. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, NY
February 6, 1998
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
           INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

 
- ------------------------
 
(A) Includes write-offs, less recoveries, of accounts determined to be
    uncollectible and other adjustments.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
March 30, 1998
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 

 


 
*By:       JAMES W. GUEDRY
      -------------------------
          (James W. Guedry)
         (ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
 

                                                                      APPENDIX I
 
1997 LISTING OF FACILITIES
 
PRINTING PAPERS
 
BUSINESS PAPERS, COATED
  PAPERS AND PULP
 
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Mobile, Alabama
    Selma, Alabama
      (Riverdale Mill)
    Camden, Arkansas
    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
    Augusta, Georgia
    Bastrop, Louisiana
      (Louisiana Mill)
    Springhill, Louisiana
      (C & D Center)
    Jay, Maine
      (Androscoggin Mill)
    Hazelton, Pennsylvania
      (C & D Center)
    Sturgis, Michigan
      (C & D Center)
    Ontario, California
      (C & D Center)
    Wilmington, North Carolina
      (Reclaim Center)
    Saybrook, Ohio
      (C & D Center)
    Millers Falls, Massachusetts
    West Springfield, Massachusetts
    Westfield, Massachusetts
      (C & D Center)
    Moss Point, Mississippi
    Natchez, Mississippi
    Corinth, New York
      (Hudson River Mill)
    Ticonderoga, New York
    Riegelwood, North Carolina
    Hamilton, Ohio
    Erie, Pennsylvania
    Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
    Georgetown, South Carolina
    Texarkana, Texas
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Clermont-Ferrand, France
      (Corimex Mill)
    Docelles, France
      (Lana Mill)
    Grenoble, France
      (Pont De Claix Mill)
    Maresquel, France
    Saillat, France
    Saint Die, France
      (Anould Mill)
    Strasbourg, France
      (La Robertsau Mill)
    Bergisch Gladbach, Germany
      (Gorhrsmuhle Mill)
    Duren, Germany
      (Reflex Mill)
    Kinleith, New Zealand
    Mataura, New Zealand
    Kwidzyn, Poland
    Inverurie, Scotland
 
PACKAGING
CONTAINERBOARD
 
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Mansfield, Louisiana
    Pineville, Louisiana
    Vicksburg, Mississippi
    Oswego, New York
    Gardiner, Oregon
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
Arles, France
Kinleith, New Zealand
Penrose, New Zealand
 
CORRUGATED CONTAINER
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Mobile, Alabama
    Fordyce, Arkansas
    Russellville, Arkansas
    Carson, California
    Modesto, California
    Putnam, Connecticut
    Auburndale, Florida
    Chicago, Illinois
    Shreveport, Louisiana
    Springhill, Louisiana
    Detroit, Michigan
    Minneapolis, Minnesota
    Geneva, New York
    Statesville, North Carolina
    Cincinnati, Ohio
    Wooster, Ohio
    Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania
    Georgetown, South Carolina
    Nashville, Tennessee
    Dallas, Texas
    Edinburg, Texas
    El Paso, Texas
    Delavan, Wisconsin
    Fond du Lac, Wisconsin
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Las Palmas, Canary Islands
    Suva, Fiji
    Arles, France
    Chalon-sur-Saone, France
    Chantilly, France
    Creil, France
    LePuy, France
    Mortagne, France
    Guadeloupe, French West
      Indies
    Bellusco, Italy
    Catania, Italy
    Pedemonte, Italy
    Pomezia, Italy
    San Felice, Italy
    Auckland, New Zealand
    Christchurch, New Zealand
    Hamilton, New Zealand
    Hastings, New Zealand
    Levin, New Zealand
    Barcelona, Spain
    Bilbao, Spain
    Valladolid, Spain
    Thrapston, United Kingdom
    Winsford, United Kingdom
    Fiber Converting Plant
      Auckland, New Zealand
 
BLEACHED BOARD
 
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
    Sprague, Connecticut
    Augusta, Georgia
    Moss Point, Mississippi
    Georgetown, South Carolina
    Riegelwood, North Carolina
    Texarkana, Texas
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Whaketane, New Zealand
 
LIQUID PACKAGING
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Turlock, California
    Plant City, Florida
    Atlanta, Georgia
    Cedar Rapids, Iowa
    Kansas City, Kansas
    Framingham, Massachusetts
    Kalamazoo, Michigan
    Raleigh, North Carolina
    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
 
                                      A-1

  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Itu, Brazil
    Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
    London, Ontario, Canada
    Longueuil, Quebec, Canada
    Shanghai, China
    San Salvador, El Salvador
    Santiago, Dominican Republic
    St. Priest, France
    Kingston, Jamaica
    Hyogo, Japan
    Seoul, Korea
    Taipei, Taiwan
    Caracas, Venezuela
 
IMPERIAL BONDWARE
 
    Visalia, California
    Shelbyville, Illinois
    Kenton, Ohio
    Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin
 
FOLDING CARTON AND RETAIL BAG
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Mobile, Alabama
    La Grange, Georgia
    Thomaston, Georgia
    Clinton, Iowa
    Hopkinsville, Kentucky
    Hendersonville, North Carolina
    Wilmington, North Carolina
    Cincinnati, Ohio
    Jackson, Tennessee
    Richmond, Virginia
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Auckland, New Zealand
    Christchurch, New Zealand
    Palmerston North,
      New Zealand
 
LABEL
 
  Bowling Green, Kentucky
 
KRAFT PAPER
 
  Mobile, Alabama
  Camden, Arkansas
 
MULTIWALL BAGS
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Auckland, New Zealand
 
PLASTIC PACKAGING
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Janesville, Wisconsin
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Santiago, Chile
    Albany, New Zealand
    Auckland, New Zealand
    Hamilton, New Zealand
    Hastings, New Zealand
    Wellington, New Zealand
    Sydney, New South Wales,
      Australia
 
DISTRIBUTION
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
  DISTRIBUTION
  (325 distribution branches)
XPEDX
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Stores Group
      Chicago, Illinois
      180 locations nationwide
    Southeast Region
      Greensboro, North Carolina
      22 branches in the Middle
      Atlantic States and Southeast
    West Region
      Denver, Colorado
      23 branches in the West
      and Midwest
    Specialty Business Group
      Erlanger, Kentucky
      10 branches nationwide
    Northeast Region
      Erlanger, Kentucky
      24 branches
      in New England,
      Middle Atlantic States
      and Midwest,
    Midwest Region
      Olathe, Kansas
      31 branches in the
      West, Midwest and South
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Chihuahua, Mexico
      3 locations
 
  OTHER INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Aussedat Rey France
      Distribution S.A., Pantin,
      France
    Recom Papers
      Nijmegen, Netherlands
    Scaldia Papier BV,
      Nijmegen, Netherlands
    Aalbers Paper Products
      Veenendaal, Netherlands
    Paper Merchant,
      Warehousing and
      Distribution Centers,
      Australia, 7 locations
      New Zealand, 13 locations
      Poland, 8 locations
 
FOREST PRODUCTS
FORESTLANDS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Approximately 6.3
    million acres in the
    South and Northeast
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Approximately 845,000
    acres in New Zealand
 
WOOD PRODUCTS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Maplesville, Alabama
    Tuscaloosa, Alabama
    Gurdon, Arkansas
    Leola, Arkansas
    Whelen Springs, Arkansas
    Augusta, Georgia
    Washington, Georgia
    Springhill, Louisiana
    Morton, Mississippi
    Wiggins, Mississippi
    Joplin, Missouri
    Madison, New Hampshire
    Riegelwood, North Carolina
    Pilot Rock, Oregon
    Johnston, South Carolina
    Newberry, South Carolina
    Sampit, South Carolina
    Henderson, Texas
    Jefferson, Texas
    Nacogdoches, Texas
    New Boston, Texas
    Danville, Virginia
    Building Products
      Ukiah, California
      Lisbon Falls, Maine
      Laurel, Mississippi
      Towanda, Pennsylvania
    Fiberboard
      Spring Hope, North Carolina
      Marion, South Carolina
    Particleboard
      Stuart, Virginia
      Waverly, Virginia
 
                                      A-2

Slaughter
  Dallas, Texas
  2 branches in the
  Southwest and
  Northwest
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Masonite Africa Limited
      Estcourt Plant
    Mt. Gambier, South Australia
    Nangwarry, South Australia
    Myrtleford, New South
      Wales, Australia
    Mt. Druit, New South Wales,
      Australia
    Benella, Victoria, Australia
    Box Hill, Victoria, Australia
    Auckland, New Zealand
    Christchurch, New Zealand
    Kopu, New Zealand
    Nelson, New Zealand
    Putaruru, New Zealand
    Rangiora, New Zealand
    Rotorua, New Zealand
    Taupo, New Zealand
    Thames, New Zealand
    Topuni, New Zealand
    Tokoroa, New Zealand
 
    Building Supply
      Retail Outlets, 36 branches in
      New Zealand
 
  REALTY PROJECTS
 
    Haig Point Plantation
    Daufuskie Island, South
      Carolina
 
SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
TISSUE
  Mills:
 
    Box Hill, Victoria, Australia
 
    Kawerau, New Zealand
 
    Klucze, Poland
 
  Plants:
 
    Box Hill, Victoria, Australia
    Clayton, Victoria, Australia
    Keon Park, Victoria, Australia
    Suva, Fiji
    Auckland, New Zealand (two plants)
    Myrtleford, New South Wales, Australia
    Te Rapa, New Zealand
 
NONWOVENS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Athens, Georgia
    Griswoldville, Massachusetts
    Walpole, Massachusetts
    Lewisburg, Pennsylvania
    Bethune, South Carolina
    Green Bay, Wisconsin
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada
    San Jose Ituebide, Mexico
 
IMAGING PRODUCTS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Holyoke, Massachusetts
    Binghamton, New York
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Munich, Germany
    Morley, Great Britain
 
CHEMICALS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Panama City, Florida
    Pensacola, Florida
    Port St. Joe, Florida
    Oakdale, Louisiana
    Springhill, Louisiana
    Picayune, Mississippi
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Oulu, Finland
    Valkeakoski, Finland
    Niort, France
    Sandarne, Sweden
    Greaker, Norway
 
PETROLEUM
 
    Alvin, Texas
    Midland, Texas
    Orange, Texas
 
SPECIALTY PANELS
  DOMESTIC:
 
    Chino, California
    Ukiah, California
    Cordele, Georgia
    Glasgow, Kentucky
    Odenton, Maryland
    Laurel, Mississippi
    Statesville, North Carolina
    Tarboro, North Carolina
    Klamath Falls, Oregon
    Towanda, Pennyslvania
    Hampton, South Carolina
    Waverly, Virginia
    Oshkosh, Wisconsin
 
  INTERNATIONAL:
 
    Pori, Finland
    Bergerac, France
      (Couze Mill)
    Ussel, France
    Barcelona, Spain
      (Durion Mill)
    Carrick-on-Shannon, Ireland
 
BUILDING PRODUCTS
  FLOORING
 
    Sydney, New South Wales,
      Australia
 
  INSULATION
 
    Minto, New South Wales,
      Australia
    Auckland, New Zealand
    Christchurch, New Zealand
    Rooty Hill, New South Wales,
      Australia
 
  ROOFING
 
    Corona, California
    Auckland, New Zealand
 
  SINKWARE
 
    Adelaide, South Australia
 
  SPECIALTY PAPERS
 
    Thilmany
      Knoxville, Tennessee
      Kaukauna, Wisconsin
    Nicolet
      De Pere, Wisconsin
    Jay, Maine
      (Androscoggin Mill)
    Akrosil
 
    DOMESTIC:
 
      Menasha, Wisconsin
      Lancaster, Ohio
 
    INTERNATIONAL:
 
      Toronto, Canada
      Limburg, Netherlands
 
                                      A-3

                           [INTERNATIONAL PAPER LOGO]
 
                            TWO MANHATTANVILLE ROAD
                            PURCHASE, NEW YORK 10577
 
              Printed on Hammermill Papers, Accent Opaque 50 lbs.
            Hammermill Papers is a division of International Paper.

