10-K


d10k.htm

FY09 FORM 10-K

d10k.htm

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

x

Annual
      report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

for the
fiscal year ended January 31, 2009,

or

¨

Transition report pursuant to
      section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of

Commission
file number 1-6991.

WAL-MART
STORES, INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code: (479) 273-4000

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title
      of each class

Name
      of each exchange on which registered

Common
      Stock, par value $0.10 per share

New
      York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.  Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days.  Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See
definition of “accelerated filer,” large accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
filer

¨

Non-accelerated
filer

¨

Smaller
reporting company

¨

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes

¨

No

x

As of
July 31, 2008, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the
registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale
price of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange reported on July 31,
2008, was $130,849,375,750. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the
registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers and beneficial
owners of 5% or more of the registrant’s common stock are the affiliates of the
registrant.

The
registrant had 3,915,118,871 shares of common stock outstanding as of March
27, 2009.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
      REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND
  INFORMATION

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as
the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as “we,” “Wal-Mart”
or the “Company”) has previously filed or that we may subsequently file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and public announcements that we have
previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may
incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the
protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that
Act. The forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in
those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future
economic performance, activities, events or developments that we expect or
anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not
limited to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including
our expected sales or earnings per share for certain periods and our comparable
stores sales from one period to another period, the amount, nature and
allocation of future capital expenditures, opening of additional stores and
clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which
we operate, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of
existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion
and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate
newly acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy,
our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated
success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase our
market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business,
changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in
expected sales of certain categories of products, our liquidity and ability to
access the capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our
customers, our operations and our results of operations, our annual tax
rate,  and other similar matters. Forward-looking statements are often
identified by the use of words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,”
“could occur,” “could result,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,”
“plan,” “projected,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will change,”  “will
decrease,” “will have,” “will increase” and “will remain.”  Although we
believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in
this Form 10-K and such reports, statements, information and announcements are
based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our
knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to
differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking
statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these
factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or
on our behalf.

Our
business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties,
domestically and internationally, that are outside our control.  Any
one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could
materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations,
including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales for any
period, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives.
These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions,
including the current economic crisis and disruption in the financial markets,
unemployment levels, consumer credit availability, levels of consumer disposable
income, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, the cost of the
goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel,
gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident
costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the
cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for
new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related
costs, weather patterns, catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our
stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability
and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange
fluctuations and volatility, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight
rates, adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect
our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the outcome of
legal proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, changes
in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and geo-political
conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist
attacks.  Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our
annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying
patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The
foregoing list of factors that may affect our operations and financial
performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could
adversely affect our business operations and financial
performance.  Our business operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity are subject to other risk factors, which we
discuss below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  Readers are
urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully
in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we
make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our
business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors
described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other
factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or
other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary
statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and
that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the
results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even
if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the
expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our
operating results in the way we expect. We caution readers not to place undue
reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to
reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by
applicable law.


WAL-MART
STORES, INC.

ANNUAL
REPORT ON FORM 10-K

FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2009

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

General

Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart,” the “Company” or “we”) operates retail stores in
various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they
can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a
broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices
(“EDLP”) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect,
integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price
items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will
not change under frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on
January 31. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, we had net
sales of $401.2 billion.

Our
operations comprise three business segments: Walmart U.S., International and
Sam’s Club.

Our
Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for
63.7% of our fiscal 2009 net sales and operates stores in three different
formats in the United States, as well as Wal-Mart’s online retail operations,
walmart.com. Our Walmart U.S. retail formats include:

•

Discount
      stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer
      a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food
      products;

•

Supercenters,
      which average approximately 186,000 square feet in size and offer a wide
      assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket;
      and

•

Neighborhood
      Markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer
      a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general
      merchandise.

At
January 31, 2009, our International segment consisted of retail operations
in 14 countries and Puerto Rico. This segment generated 24.6% of our fiscal 2009
net sales. The International segment includes numerous different formats of
retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and Sam’s
Clubs that operate outside the United States.

Our Sam’s
Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and the
segment’s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam’s Club accounted for 11.7%
of our fiscal 2009 net sales. Our Sam’s Clubs average approximately 133,000
square feet in size.

We
maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas
72716, USA.

The
Development of Our Company

Although
Wal-Mart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted
by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin
variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton,
opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders’
business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year,
the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers,
Arkansas. In fiscal 1984, we opened our first three Sam’s Clubs, and in fiscal
1988, we opened our first supercenter. In fiscal 1999, we opened our first
Neighborhood Market.

In fiscal
1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint
venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra S.A. de
C.V. (“Cifra”). In fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra,
and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico,
S.A. de C.V. Since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to
expand. At January 31, 2009, our International segment was comprised of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto
Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five
countries in Central America, and in Chile and Mexico, our joint ventures in
India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in China.

At
January 31, 2009, we operated 891 discount stores, 2,612 supercenters, 153
Neighborhood Markets and 602 Sam’s Clubs in the United States. At the end of
fiscal year 2009, our International segment operated units in Argentina (28),
Brazil (345), Canada (318), Chile (197), Costa Rica (164), El Salvador (77),
Guatemala (160), Honduras (50), Japan (371), Mexico (1,197), Nicaragua (51),
Puerto Rico (56) and the United Kingdom (358). We also operated 243 stores in
China through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries
at January 31, 2009. At January 31, 2009, our Indian business consisted of
wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations through
our joint venture with Bharti Enterprises and technical support to the retail
stores of Bharti Retail through a franchise agreement.


Our
Business Segments

Our
retail operations serve our customers through three segments. The Walmart U.S.
segment includes our discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets in
the United States as well as walmart.com. The Sam’s Club segment includes the
warehouse membership clubs in the United States as well as samsclub.com. The
International segment consists of our operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada,
Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. You will find information
concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived
assets of each of those segments in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations. We have incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31,
2009, and for the year then ended, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations that are contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders,
portions of which are included as an exhibit hereto.

Walmart
U.S. Segment

The
Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $255.7 billion, $239.5 billion and $226.3
billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store,
supercenter or Neighborhood Market location accounted for as much as 1% of total
Company net sales.

General.

As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates
retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters
in 48 states and Neighborhood Markets in 16 states. Our discount stores range in
size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of
approximately 108,000 square feet. Supercenters range in size from 94,000 square
feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 186,000
square feet. Neighborhood Markets range in size from 36,000 square feet to
62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet.
From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market
demands and needs.  Customers can also purchase a broad assortment of
merchandise and services online at

www.walmart.com

.

WALMART
U.S. SEGMENT

STORE
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE

(1)

FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009

(1)

“Total”
      and “Square Footage” columns are as of January 31, of the years
      shown. Square footage is reported in
thousands.

(2)

Includes
      expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to
      supercenters.

(3)

Total
      opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores
      to supercenters.


Merchandise.

Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below,
across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and
Neighborhood Markets.

·

Grocery
      consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli,
      bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery as well as consumables
      such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet
      supplies.

·

Entertainment
      contains electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services,
      cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and
      toys.

·

Hardlines
      consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive
      accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting
      goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal
  merchandise.

·

Apparel
      includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and
      jewelry.

·

Health
      and wellness includes pharmacy and optical
  services.

·

Home
      includes home furnishings, housewares and small
  appliances.

The
Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including
money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.

Nationally
advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart
U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store
brands including “Great Value,” “Equate,” “Ol’ Roy,” “Sam’s Choice,” “Spring
Valley,” “Parent’s Choice,” “Everstart,” “Faded Glory,” “No Boundaries,”
“George,” “Athletic Works,” “Secret Treasures,” “Puritan,” “Durabrand,”
“HomeTrends,” “Mainstays,” “Ozark Trail,” “White Stag” and “Canopy.” The Company
also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include
“General Electric,” “Disney,” “McDonald’s,”  “Better Homes &
Gardens,” “OP,” “Starter,” “Danskin Now” and “Just My Size.”

Sales for
the Walmart U.S. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:

January 31,

STRATEGIC
      MERCHANDISE UNITS



Grocery


%


%

Entertainment



Hardlines



Apparel



Health &
      Wellness



Home



Total


%


%


Operations.

Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of
discount stores and Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of
operation for the remaining discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood
Markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m.,
seven days a week. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit
cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party
provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for
products and services through our customers’ health benefit plans.

Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.

The Walmart U.S. segment’s business is seasonal to
a certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.

Competition.

Our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and
specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional
chains. Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts,
discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new
store sites.

Our
ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our
customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail
industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within
our industry. These programs include the following:

•

EDLP
      – our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under
      which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust
      that our prices will not change under frequent promotional
      activity;

•

Rollbacks
      – our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by
      lowering prices on selected goods;

•

Store
      Within a Store – a program to provide accountability to assistant and
      department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department
      performance;

•

Store
      of the Community – a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in
      a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
      which that store is located;

•

Clean,
      Fast and Friendly – our commitment to deliver a great customer experience
      through fast, friendly service in a clean
  environment;

•

Win,
      Play and Show – a strategy to select a merchandise assortment based on our
      growth potential, economies of scale and customer credibility in each
      business; and

•

Save
      Even More  – a strategy to meet or be below a competitor’s
      advertised price on key value
items.

In
addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that
provides one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our
customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that
allow customers to shop at their convenience, provide us with additional
competitive advantages.

Distribution.

During
fiscal 2009, approximately 81% of the Walmart U.S. segment’s purchases of
merchandise were shipped to the segment’s stores through our distribution
centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores
from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through
our private truck fleet. However, we contract with common carriers to transport
the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.

Our
Walmart U.S. segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as
of January 31, 2009, located strategically throughout the continental United
States.  Of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated
106. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution
facilities.  During fiscal 2009, the Company opened one food import
distribution center and closed one walmart.com distribution
center.  In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of
our Wal-Mart distribution centers also service our Sam’s Club segment for
certain items.


International
Segment

The
International segment’s net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal
years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were $98.6 billion, $90.4
billion and $76.9 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no
single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.

General.

Our International
segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in Argentina,
Brazil, Canada, Japan, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom, our majority-owned
subsidiaries operating in five countries in Central America, and in Chile and
Mexico, our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled
subsidiaries in China.

INTERNATIONAL
SEGMENT

UNIT
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE

(1)

FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009

(1)

Square
      footage is reported in thousands. Excludes units and square footage for
      our operations in Germany and South Korea, which we disposed of in October
      2006.

(2)

Brazil
      includes 118 Bompreço units acquired in February 2004 and 139 Sonae
      units acquired in December 2005.

(3)

Includes
      units of Bounteous Company Ltd. (“BCL”). BCL operates 103 hypermarkets in
      34 cities in China under the Trust-Mart
banner.

(4)

Excludes
      52 Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000
      square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu stores, which have closed or
      will close in fiscal 2010.


International
unit counts and operating formats as of January 31, 2009:

Country

Supermarkets

Discount
      Stores

Supercenters

Hypermarkets

Other

Total

Argentina

-

-


-



Brazil

(1)


-





Canada

(2)

-



-



Chile



-


-


China

-

-





Costa
      Rica



-




El
      Salvador



-


-


Guatemala



-




Honduras



-




Japan


-

-




Mexico

(3)




-


1,197

Nicaragua



-

-

-


Puerto
      Rico




-



United
      Kingdom


-


-



Grand
      Total

1,064





3,615

(1)

“Other”
      format includes 22 Sam’s Clubs, 23 cash-n-carry stores, 39 combination
      discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise
    store.

(2)

“Other”
      format includes 6 Sam’s Clubs that were closed in March of fiscal
      2010.

(3)

“Other”
      format includes 91 Sam’s Clubs, 279 combination discount and grocery
      stores, 83 department stores and 360
  restaurants.

During
fiscal 2009, the Company disposed of Gazeley Limited (“Gazeley”), an ASDA
commercial property development subsidiary in the United Kingdom. Consequently,
the results of operations associated with Gazeley and the gain on disposal are
presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income
and Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows
related to this operation were insignificant for all periods
presented.

During
the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a restructuring program
under which the Company’s Japanese subsidiary, The Seiyu Ltd., will close 23
stores and dispose of certain excess properties. This restructuring will involve
incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment
charges and employee separation benefits, although any additional costs are not
expected to be material. The costs associated with this restructuring and
the results of operations of the affected stores and properties are presented as
discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Income and
Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented. The cash flows and
accrued liabilities related to this restructuring were insignificant for all
periods presented.

In January 2009, the Company completed
a tender offer for the shares of Distribución y Servicio D&S S.A.
(“D&S”), acquiring approximately 58.2% of the outstanding D&S shares
(the "First Offer").  D&S has 197 stores, 10 shopping centers and 85
PRESTO financial services branches throughout Chile. The purchase price for the
D&S shares in the First Offer

was approximately $1.55 billion.
 As of January 31, 2009, assets recorded in the acquisition after the First
Offer, were approximately $3.6 billion, including approximately $1.0 billion in
goodwill, liabilities assumed were approximately $1.7 billion and minority
interest was approximately $395 million.  Under the

Chilean securities laws, the Company
was required after the First Offer to initiate a second tender offer (the
"Second Offer") for the remaining outstanding shares of D&S on the same
terms as the First Offer. The Company completed the Second Offer in March 2009,
acquiring approximately 16.4% of the outstanding D&S shares for
approximately $430 million, resulting in the Company owning approximately 74.6%
of the D&S shares. In connection with the transaction, the former D&S
controlling shareholders were each granted a put option that is exercisable
beginning in January 2011 through January 2016. During the exercise period, the
put option allows each former controlling shareholder the right to require the
Company to purchase up to all of their shares of D&S (approximately 25.1%)
owned following the Second Offer

at fair market value at the time of an
exercise, if any.  The consolidated financial statements of D&S, as
well as the allocation of the purchase price as of January 31, 2009, are
preliminary.

Merchandise.

The merchandising strategy for the International segment is similar to that of
our operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of
merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a
majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the United States have
been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the
International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop
relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of
quality merchandise.


Operations.

The hours of operation for operating units in the International segment vary by
country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and
national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment
methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards
issued by third-party providers. Other consumer finance programs exist in
certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the
customer.

Across
the International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from
multiple store formats and global procurement practices. In addition,
relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes
across countries.

Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.

The International segment’s business is seasonal
to a certain extent. Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to
different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as
different climatic conditions.

Competition.

The International segment competes with a variety of local, national and
international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety
and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in
which we operate and, in Mexico, with local, national and international
restaurant chains. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality
merchandise that offers exceptional value in the International segment
determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. In our international
units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major
impact on the segment’s competitive position in the markets where we
operate.

Distribution.

We
utilize a total of 146 distribution facilities located in Argentina, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and two export
consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we
process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating
units of the International segment. During fiscal 2009, approximately 74% of the
International segment’s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities.
Suppliers ship the balance of the International segment’s purchases directly to
our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 146
distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 34.
Third parties owned and operated the remaining 78 distribution
facilities.

Sam’s
Club Segment

The Sam’s
Club segment had net sales of $46.9 billion, $44.4 billion and $41.6 billion for
the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as
much as 1% of total Company net sales.

General.

As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam’s Clubs in 48 states. Facility
sizes for Sam’s Clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet,
with the average Sam’s Club facility being approximately 133,000 square feet.
Sam’s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and
services online at

www.samsclub.com

.

SAM’S
      CLUB SEGMENT

CLUB
COUNT AND SQUARE FOOTAGE

FISCAL
YEARS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2005 THROUGH 2009

(1)

Square

Fiscal
      Year

Opened

Closed

Total

Footage

Balance
      Forward


68,144



-


70,677





73,391





76,270



-


78,236



-


79,906

(1)

“Total”
      and “Square Footage” columns are as of January 31, of the years
      shown. Square footage is reported in
thousands.


Merchandise.

Sam’s Club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods,
some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label
items under the “MEMBER’S MARK,” “BAKERS & CHEFS” and “SAM’S CLUB”
brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club
format.

·

Sundries,
      including snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages,
      paper goods, laundry and home care and other
  consumables.

·

Food, including
      dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled and frozen
      packaged foods.

·

Hardgoods,
      including home improvement, electronics, office supplies, outdoor living,
      grills, gardening and furniture.

·

Service
      businesses, including photo processing, pharmacy and optical services,
      floral, tire and battery centers and gasoline
  stations.

·

Softgoods,
      including apparel, jewelry, housewares, mattresses and small
      appliances.

Sales for
the Sam’s Club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during
the fiscal year ended:

January 31,

CATEGORY



Sundries


%


%

Food



Hardgoods



Service
      Businesses, including fuel



Softgoods



Total


%


%

Operations.

Operating hours for Sam’s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to
8:30 p.m., Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits
business members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through
Saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m.

Sam’s
Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted
at our clubs, including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private
label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In
addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and
services through our customers’ health benefit plans.

Members
include both small business owners and individual consumers. Individual
consumers are referred to as Advantage members. The annual membership fee for an
individual Advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee
for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a
spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, business
members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business
account for $35 each. Businesses can also purchase Advantage memberships for
their employees under a Group Membership Program. Group rates are $30 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group
Advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. Sam’s Club PLUS
is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services.
The annual fee for a Primary PLUS member (Business or Advantage) is $100. In
addition, Business Plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates
(add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each.

Seasonal
Aspects of Operations.

The Sam’s Club segment’s business is seasonal to a
certain extent. Generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth
fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs
during the first fiscal quarter.

Competition.

Sam’s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount
retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and
distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam’s Club
competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites.
Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of
small business members largely determines our competitive position in the
warehouse club industry.

Distribution.

During fiscal 2009, approximately 65% of the Sam’s Club segment non-fuel
purchases were shipped from the Sam’s Club segment’s dedicated distribution
facilities and some of the Walmart U.S. segment’s distribution centers for
certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam’s Club purchases
directly to Sam’s Club locations. As of January 31, 2009, our Sam’s Club
segment operations were supported by 26 distribution facilities located
strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 26 distribution
facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 18 distribution facilities.

The
principal focus of our Sam’s Club’s distribution operations is on crossdocking
merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Crossdocking is a distribution
process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound
trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility,
sometimes less than an hour.

Sam’s
Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to
transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We
contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from
distribution centers to clubs.


Employees

As of
January 31, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries employed over
2.1 million employees (“associates”) worldwide, with approximately
1.4 million associates in the United States and approximately 694,000
associates internationally. Like almost all retailers, the Company has a large
number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant
turnover in employees each year. In the United States, the Company offers a
broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the Wal-Mart
Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, store discount cards or Sam’s Club memberships,
bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the
Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life insurance. The Company also offers
health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The
Company’s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most
expenses.

In our
operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of
associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory
requirements.

Our
Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information

Our
corporate website is located at

www.walmartstores.com

.
We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those
reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to
time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished
to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free
of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them
with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any
of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The
SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that
file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is

http://www.sec.gov

.
Our SEC filings, our Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics and our Statement
of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at

www.walmartstores.com/investors

.
These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by
writing or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our
principal offices.

A
description of any substantive amendment or waiver of Wal-Mart’s Code of Ethics
for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor
Relations page of our website at

www.walmartstores.com

under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located on
our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or
waiver.

Certain
financial information relating to our segments is included in our Annual Report
to Shareholders under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 11 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is
incorporated herein by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders
are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 1A.

RISK
      FACTORS

The risks
described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only
risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional
factors that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally,
as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently
consider to be immaterial to our operations.

General
economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect
our financial performance.

General
economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may
adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing
market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer
disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt
levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory
changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely
affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart
U.S. segment and Sam’s Club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one
with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases
of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on
inventory. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, decreases in consumer
disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the local housing market, currency devaluations and other
adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate
may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries,
especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than
in the United States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins,
cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect
our operations and operating results in our International segment.


Higher
interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs,
inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange
rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the
imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated
with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other
economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have
operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and
administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and
international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that
affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of
our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an
increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more
extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the
volume typically available to us for sale.

We
may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including
conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our
financial performance.

Our
expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts
successfully in new markets within the United States and upon our ability to
increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations.
Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood
Markets and Sam’s Clubs and to convert existing discount stores into
supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and
retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms.
Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings
of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community
action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the
adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our
ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into
supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and
states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit
our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into
supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores,
Neighborhood Markets or Sam’s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into
supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income
growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets
into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise
not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be
adversely affected.

Impediments
to the expansion of our International operations could adversely affect our
financial performance.

Our
business strategy for our International segment includes expansion by selective
acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our
existing International business, as well as opening new units in the countries
in which we have existing operations. In the countries in which we have existing
operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those
countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or
Sam’s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in the United States,
our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a
market served by our International segment depends in large measure upon our
ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to
acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability
to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites
on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to
local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units
or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover,
cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we
introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not
being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will
be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve.
If we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our International
segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.

We may be
unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable
prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such
candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to
successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing
operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be
successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in
a reasonable time. Our failure to identify appropriate candidates for
acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and
alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our
International segment and our future financial performance.

Failure
to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor
issues could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our
ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad
depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of
qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability
to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing
stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and
related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors,
including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the
work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within
those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other
insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and
regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified
personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if
new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial
performance could be affected adversely.

We
face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which
could adversely affect our financial performance.

The
retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes
for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other
important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national
retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we
have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating
discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets,
supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and
catalog businesses. Our Sam’s Club segment competes with other wholesale club
operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and
general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based
retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with
retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores,
supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs,
internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale
club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and
availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store
amenities and price. Our ability to offer value and service to our customers
through various programs, including EDLP, Rollbacks, Store Within a Store and
Store of the Community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our
competitors in most instances. Where necessary to compete effectively with
competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to
respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets
could adversely affect our financial performance. See “Item 1. Business” above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating
segments.

Although
the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the
retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result
in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail
marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved
financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration
than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive
positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider
variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated
companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.


Risks
associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety
of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.

The
products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international
suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important
factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with
applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be
certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to
find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a
timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect
to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and
economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located,
the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier
standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw
materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates,
transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other
factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located
are beyond our control. In addition, the United States’ foreign trade policies,
tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on
certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods
or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors
relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors
affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our
financial performance.

Our
customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the
safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then
sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to
seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs,
even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence
on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As
such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell,
regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial
performance.

Our
International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative,
judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions
specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely
affect our financial performance.

We
currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico, and the
United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in China and India
and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2009, our
International operations generated 24.6% of our net sales. As a result of a
recent acquisition of operations and our expansion activities in foreign
countries, we expect that our International operations could account for a
larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in
these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be
negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our
control. These factors include political conditions, including political
instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade
policies, both of the United States and of the other countries in which we
operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or
regions in which we operate, now or in the future.  Foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on
future cash flows from our International operations, and could adversely affect
our financial performance.

Moreover,
the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the
past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if
they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other
factors which may impact our International operations include foreign trade,
monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries,
laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and
similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities
located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United
States. Additional risks inherent in our International operations generally
include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international
operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing
intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The
various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also
exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated
by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to
differences in culture, laws and regulations.

Natural
disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial
performance.

The
occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and
earthquakes, other weather conditions, such as major winter storms, and
geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally
and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial
performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our
properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers,
the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term
disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the
disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in
the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in
which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our
stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and
disruption in our communications with our stores.  These factors could
otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial
performance.

The
significant property damage experienced by the Company and others resulting from
the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property
insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance
markets to us and others. The insurance coverage offered to the Company for
named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more
limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to
us. As a result the Company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses
that may result from named windstorms.


We
are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

We are
involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment,
tort and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us
or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous
cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought
claims under federal and state wage and hour laws.  In addition, we
are a defendant in

Dukes v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

, a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all
past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale
clubs in the United States. The class as certified in

Dukes

currently includes
present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we
have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in
promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things,
injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On
June 4, 2004, the U.S. district court hearing this case issued an order
granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided
three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
upheld the district court’s ruling. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed
a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the
Court of Appeals. On November 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its
opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the
Company’s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. The Company filed a
new Petition for Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13,
2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. The court of
appeals heard oral argument on the Petition on March 24, 2009. We discuss these
cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under
the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 8 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders which
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are
included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

If
we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage
our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become
subject to litigation.

As do
most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In
addition, our online operations at

www.walmart.com

and

www.samsclub.com

depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of
our security systems that results in customer personal information being
obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our
customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or
the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that
we expend significant additional resources related to our information security
systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our
online sales operations.

We
rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results
and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up)
systems could harm our ability to run our business.

Although
we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary
computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year,
it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical
computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are
subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic
events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our
employees. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease
to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or
replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.
Any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems
may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In
addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information
technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer
systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of
system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken,
although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk.
If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to
realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these
initiatives.

We
may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could
negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our
products and services, and our market share.

It is
difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our
customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our
ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer
preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing
consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and
our market share.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF
      COMMENTS

Not
applicable.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The
number of discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam’s Clubs
located in each state in the United States and the number of units located in
each of the countries in which we operate at January 31, 2009 are disclosed
in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption “Fiscal 2009 End-of-Year
Store Count” and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual
Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

United
States.

As of January 31, 2009, in the United States, we owned 3,100
of the buildings in which discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets
operated and 483 of the buildings in which our Sam’s Clubs operated. Land on
which our stores are located is either owned or leased by the Company. In the
United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs
operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or
operating lease arrangements or from local governmental entities in connection
with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide
for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In
some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based on sales volume.

Substantially
all of the Company’s store leases have renewal options, some of which include
escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.

We use
independent contractors to construct our buildings.

Our 121
Walmart U.S. and 26 Sam’s Club distribution centers are located strategically
throughout the continental United States. Of these 147 distribution facilities,
we owned and operated 114 distribution facilities and third parties owned and
operated the remaining 33 distribution facilities.

We own
office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and
lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com
operations and field management.

International.

We operate our International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of
owned and leased properties in each country in which our International segment
operates. As of January 31, 2009, we owned 23 properties in Argentina, 143
properties in Brazil, 118 properties in Canada, 94 properties in Chile, 63
properties in Costa Rica, 8 properties in El Salvador, 14 properties in
Guatemala, 7 properties in Honduras, 52 properties in Japan, 492 properties in
Mexico, 21 properties in Nicaragua, 11 properties in Puerto Rico and 232
properties in the United Kingdom in which operating units are located, with the
remaining units in each such country and the properties in which the operating
units are located in China being leased on terms that vary from property to
property. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in
each country in which we are conducting business. Our International operations
are supported by 146 distribution facilities as of January 31,
2009.  Of these 146 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34
and leased and operated 34. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 78
distribution facilities.

For
further information on our distribution centers, see the caption “Distribution”
provided for each of our segments under “Item 1. Business.”

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS

I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: We discuss certain legal proceedings pending against
us in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is captioned “Legal
Proceedings,” and refer you to that discussion for important information
concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and,
where known, the relief sought, as well as, the pending settlement of 63 of the
wage-and-hour class actions pending against us identified below. Our
Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto are included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are
an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by
reference. We provide the following additional information concerning those
legal proceedings which sets forth the name of the lawsuit, the court in which
the lawsuit is pending and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit
was filed. In each lawsuit’s name, the letters “WM” refer to Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc.

Wage-and-Hour
Class Actions Included in Settlement Agreements: Adcox v. WM, US Dist. Ct.
(“USDC”), Southern Dist. of TX, 11/9/04; Armijo v. WM, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct.,
Rio Arriba County, NM, 9/18/00; Bailey v. WM, Marion County Superior Ct. IN,
8/17/00; Barnett v. WM, Superior Ct. of WA, King County, 9/10/01; Basco v. WM,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of LA, 9/5/00; Bayardo v. WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 3/19/07;
Brogan v. WM, Superior Ct. of NH, Strafford County, 2/17/05; Brogan v. WM, USDC,
Southern Dist. of WV, 4/3/07; Brown v. WM, 14th Judicial Circuit Ct., Rock
Island, IL, 6/20/01; Brown v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of NY, 4/5/07; Campbell v.
WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 9/20/06; Carter v. WM, Ct. of Common Pleas, Colleton
County, SC, 7/31/02; Cole v. WM, USDC, Dist. of MT, Central Div., 1/13/06;
Connatser v. WM, USDC, Western Dist. of TN, 4/4/07; Curless v. WM, USDC, Dist.
of WY, 10/26/05; Deas v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of VA, 4/3/06; Evans v. WM,
USDC, Dist. of SC, 01/9/07; Faverty v. WM, Ct. of Common Pleas, Summit County,
OH, 8/02/02; Gilles v. WM, USDC, Southern Dist. of IN, 3/31/06; Grey v. WM,
USDC, Dist. of KS, 7/14/06; Gross v. WM, Circuit Ct., Laurel County, KY,
9/29/04; Hale v. WM, Circuit Ct., Jackson County, MO, 8/15/01; Hall v. WM, USDC,
Dist. of NV, 8/12/05; Henderson v. WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 12/6/06; Hicks v. WM,
USDC, Eastern Dist. of TX, 4/3/07; Holcomb v. WM, State Ct. of Chatham County,
GA, 3/28/00; Husidic v. WM, USDC, Southern Dist. of IA, 9/14/06; Iliadis v. WM,
Superior Ct. of NJ, Middlesex County, 5/30/02; Jackson v. WM, USDC, Dist. of DE,
4/4/05; Jackson v. WM, USDC, Dist. of ID, 2/3/06; Jackson (f/k/a Scott) v. WM,
Circuit Ct. of Saginaw County, MI, 9/26/01; King v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of
PA, 4/13/07; Kraemer v. WM, USDC, Dist. of ND, 11/15/06; Kuhlmann v. WM, Circuit
Ct., Milwaukee County, WI, 8/30/01; Lerma v. WM, Dist. Ct., Cleveland County,
OK, 8/31/01; Lopez v. WM, 23rd Judicial Dist. Ct. of Brazoria County, TX,
6/23/00; Luce v. WM, USDC, Dist. of SD, 5/11/05; Mathies v. WM, USDC, Dist. of
OR, 3/30/07; McFarlin v. WM, USDC, Dist. of AK, 4/7/05; Montgomery v. WM, USDC,
Southern Dist. of MS, 12/30/02; Mussman v. WM, IA Dist. Ct., Clinton County,
6/5/01; Nagy v. WM, Circuit Ct. of Boyd County, KY, 8/29/01; Nolan v. WM, USDC,
Northern Dist. of OH, Eastern Div., 4/4/06; Olinger v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist.
of MI, 9/14/06; Parrish v. WM, Superior Ct., Chatham County, GA, 2/17/05; Pedro
v. WM, USDC, Dist. of MA, 4/4/07; Penn v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of LA,
9/15/06; Phelps v. WM, USDC, Southern Dist. of IL, 4/4/07; Pickett v. WM,
Circuit Court, Shelby County, TN, 10/22/03; Poha v. WM, USDC, Dist. of HI,
11/1/05; Pritchett v. WM, Circuit Ct. of Jefferson County, AL, 2/17/05;
Richardson v. WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 4/4/07; Robinson v. WM, USDC, Southern
Dist. of MS, 3/5/07; Sarda v. WM, Circuit Ct., Washington County, FL, 9/21/01;
Smith v. WM, USDC, Western Dist. of WI, 4/2/07; Stafford v. WM, USDC, Dist. of
NE, 12/8/05; Whitacre v. WM, USDC, Dist. of NV, 6/15/07; Willey v. WM, Dist. Ct.
of Wyandotte County, KS, 9/21/01; Williams v. WM, USDC, Dist of UT, Central
Div., 1/20/06; Williams v. WM, USDC, Western Dist. of NC, 3/23/06; Winters v.
WM, Circuit Ct., Holmes County, MS, 5/28/02; Woods v. WM, USDC, Dist. of ME,
1/12/06; Works v. WM, Circuit Ct., Miller County, AR, 5/18/05.


Wage-and-Hour
Class Actions Not Included in Settlement Agreements: Alix (f/k/a Gamble) v. WM,
Supreme Ct. of the State of NY, County of Albany, 12/7/01; Braun/Hummel v. WM,
Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA, 3/20/02 and 8/30/04; Bryan v. WM,
Superior Ct. of CA, Alameda County, 10/9/08; Moore v. WM, USDC, Dist. of OR,
12/7/05; Rubin v. WM, USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, 9/5/08; Salvas v. WM, Superior
Ct., Middlesex County, MA, 8/21/01; Savaglio v. WM, Superior Ct. of CA, Alameda
County, 2/6/01; Smith/Ballard v. WM, USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, 3/16/06;
Williams v. WM, Superior Ct. of CA, Alameda County, 3/23/04.

Braun
Wage-and-Hour Class Action:  Braun v. WM, 1st Judicial Dist. Ct.
Dakota County MN, 9/12/01.

Exempt
Status Cases: Salvador v. WM and Sam’s West, Inc., USDC, Central Dist. of CA,
Western Div., 12/22/05; Sepulveda v. WM, USDC, Central Dist. of CA, Western
Div., 1/14/04; Patel v. WM, USDC, Middle Dist. of AL, 5/6/08.

Gender
Discrimination Cases: Dukes v. WM, USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, San Francisco
Div., 6/19/01; 9th Circuit Ct. of Appeals, San Francisco, CA, 8/26/04; EEOC
(Smith) v. WM, USDC, Eastern Dist. of KY, London Div., 8/31/01.

II.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS: Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure
of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in
accordance with that requirement:

The
District Attorney for Solano County, California, has alleged that the Company’s
store in Vacaville, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices.
Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a
limited amount of damaged or returned product containing dry granular fertilizer
and pesticides on or about April 3, 2002. The parties are currently
negotiating toward a resolution of this matter. While management cannot predict
the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome
will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of
operations.

The
District Attorney for Orange County, California, has alleged that the Company’s
store in Foothill Ranch, California, failed to comply with certain California
statutes regulating hazardous waste and hazardous materials handling practices.
Specifically, the County is alleging that the Company improperly disposed of a
limited amount of damaged product containing dry granular pesticide on or about
January 24, 2005. The parties are currently negotiating toward a resolution
of this matter. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on
the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) approached a grocery industry group to
resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling practices and to reduce the use
of ozone-depleting refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The Company then
approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan
for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types of refrigeration
equipment. The parties are currently negotiating a resolution of this matter.
While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management
does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s
financial condition or results of operations.

In
January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers (“USACE”) was concerned about alleged violations of a permit issued
by that agency in 2003, for the fill of 0.23 acres of a creek and its contiguous
wetlands during the construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico.
On January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to these issues in
writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of
Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto
Rico filed a formal response and is currently implementing mitigation measures
and working with the USACE to resolve the matter. While management cannot
predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the
outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or
results of operations.

On
November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the
United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, seeking
documents and information relating to the Company’s receipt, transportation,
handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain
merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company
has been informed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of
California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential
violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), the Clean
Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S.
Attorney’s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks
to transport certain returned merchandise from the Company’s stores to its
return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered
hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company
must ship from the store certain materials as “hazardous waste” directly to a
certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The
Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its
return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified
facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. While management
cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe
the outcome will have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or
results of operations.

Additionally,
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern District of California has initiated
its own investigation regarding the Company’s handling of hazardous materials
and hazardous waste and the Company has received administrative document
requests from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control requesting
documents and information with respect to two of the Company’s distribution
facilities. Further, the Company also received a subpoena from the Los Angeles
County District Attorney’s Office for documents and administrative
interrogatories requesting information, among other things, regarding the
Company’s handling of materials and hazardous waste. California state and local
government authorities and the State of Nevada have also initiated
investigations into these matters. The Company is cooperating fully with the
respective authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of
this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect
on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

On
March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the
Missouri Department of Natural Resources (“Department”) alleging various
violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with
the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company had contracted
for recycling services. The Department alleges that the Company provided certain
items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous
waste. The EPA has inspected the contractor’s facilities, and both the EPA and
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri are conducting
investigations. The Company has submitted a response to the Notice of Violation
and is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict the
ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will
have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of
operations.


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS
      TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

No
matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT

The
following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of
whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The
business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal
occupation for at least the past five years.

New
President and Chief Executive Officer of Sam’s Club.

On March 9, 2009,
the Company appointed Brian C. Cornell, age 50, as Executive Vice President,
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s Sam’s Club Division,
effective as of April 3, 2009. Since June 2007, Mr. Cornell has served as Chief
Executive Officer of Michaels Stores, Inc., an arts and crafts specialty
retailer and will serve in that capacity until April 2, 2009. He was Executive
Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Safeway Inc., a food and drug
retailer, from April 2004 until June 2007. Prior to joining Safeway, he held
senior management positions with PepsiCo, Inc.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR
      REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
      PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES

Certain
information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information included under the captions “Market price of common
stock,” “Listing” and “Dividends paid per share” in our Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

Our
common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock
Exchange. At March 27, 2009, the latest practicable date, there were
298,263 common stock shareholders of record.

From time
to time, we have repurchased shares of our common stock under a $10.0 billion
share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in September
2004.

On
May 31, 2007, the Board of Directors replaced the $10.0 billion share
repurchase program, which had $3.3 billion of remaining authorization for share
repurchases, with a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program announced on
June 1, 2007. Under the new share repurchase program, there is no
expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make
our share repurchases under the new program, which will expire only when and if
we have repurchased $15.0 billion of our shares under the program. Under the new
program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued
status. We consider several factors in determining when to execute the share
repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our capacity
for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock.
At January 31, 2009, approximately $5.0 billion remained of the $15.0
billion authorization. As a result of the economic environment and instability
of the credit markets, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in
October 2008. We reinstituted our share repurchase program in February 2009 and
will continue to monitor market conditions in connection with our
program.

There was
no share repurchase activity for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.

ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL
      DATA

The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “Five-Year Financial Summary” included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
      DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
      OPERATIONS

The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND
      QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK

The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the sub-caption “Market Risk” under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in
an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all
information under the captions “Consolidated Statements of Income,”
“Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’
Equity,” “Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,” “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is
included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND
      DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND
      PROCEDURES

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We
maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to
provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely
disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. In
designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide
only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Our
management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and
procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.
Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we
maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.

In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over
financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve
such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an
effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as
implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual
processes.

An
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period covered by
this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are
effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the
SEC’s rules and forms.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management’s
report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report
of Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public
accounting firm, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting are
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated in this
Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders are
included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Changes
in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There has
been no change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009, that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER
      INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE
      OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Information
required by this item with respect to the Company’s directors, certain family
relationships, and compliance by the Company’s directors, executive officers and
certain beneficial owners of the Company’s common stock with Section 16(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference
to such information under the captions entitled “Information About the Board”
and “Stock Ownership—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance”
from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on June 5, 2009 (our “Proxy Statement”).

Please
see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Executive Officers of the
Registrant” which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to
Item 401(b) of the SEC’s Regulation S-K.

No
material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the
Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those procedures
were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our 2008 Annual Shareholders’
Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.

The
information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee
financial expert and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other
associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the captions “Information About the Board—Board Committees,”
“Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Financial Experts” and “Corporate
Governance—Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial
Officers”  included in our Proxy Statement. “Item 1. Business,” above
contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of
Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on
our website.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION

The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the captions “Executive Compensation” and “Information About
the Board – Compensation of the Directors” and under the sub-captions
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation
Committee Report” that appear under the caption “Corporate Governance” included
in our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
      CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
      MATTERS

The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the sub-captions “Holdings of Major Shareholders” and
“Holdings of Officers and Directors” that appear under the caption “Stock
Ownership” and all information that appears under the caption “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” included in our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS
      AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
  INDEPENDENCE

The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the caption “Related-Party Transactions”, under the
caption "Corporate Governance - Transaction Review Policy" and under the
caption “Information About the Board—Director Independence” included in our
Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
      FEES AND SERVICES

The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all
information under the caption “Corporate Governance—Audit Committee Pre-Approval
Policy” and under the caption “Company Proposal— Proposal No. 2:
Ratification of Independent Accountants” included in our Proxy
Statement.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
      STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

(1) and
      (2)

Consolidated Financial
      Statements

The
financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our
Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the
portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed as Exhibit 13
hereto.

Annual

Report
      to

Shareholders

(page)

Consolidated
      Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended
      January 31, 2009


Consolidated
      Balance Sheets at January 31, 2009 and 2008


Consolidated
      Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for each of the three years in the
      period ended January 31, 2009


Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
      January 31, 2009


Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements


Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over
      Financial Reporting


Management’s
      Report to Our Shareholders


All
schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or
because the information required is included in the financial statements,
including the notes thereto.


(3)

Exhibits

The
following documents are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K:



*

Filed
      herewith as an Exhibit.

**

Furnished
      herewith as an Exhibit.

+

Management
      contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as
      exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of this
  report.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated:

Signature
Page to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Form 10-K
for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2009


Signature
Page to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

Form 10-K
for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2009

26