
10-K405
ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

  (MARK ONE)
    /X/      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                       OR

    / /    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                TO                 
                                       --------------    ---------------

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-7819

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              MASSACHUSETTS                                 04-2348234
     (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

    ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY, NORWOOD, MA                         02062-9106
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

                                 (617) 329-4700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (b) OF THE ACT:

COMMON STOCK $.16 2/3 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
      Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES /X/ NO

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $2,630,610,015 based on the closing price of
the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting system
on December 29, 1995.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each class of Common Stock:
114,677,500 shares of $.16 2/3 par value Common Stock as of December 29, 1995.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's principal products include
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs"),
special-purpose linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SPLICs") and digital signal
processing ICs ("DSP ICs"). The Company also manufactures and markets devices
using assembled product technology.

Nearly all of the Company's products are components, which are typically
incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in a wide range of
equipment and systems for use in communications, computer, industrial,
instrumentation, military/aerospace and high-performance consumer electronics
applications. The Company sells its products worldwide; approximately 44% of the
Company's fiscal 1995 net sales were made to customers in North America, while
most of the balance was to customers in Western Europe and the Far East.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed,
acceleration, position and rotation angle, are inherently analog in nature,
consisting of continuously varying information. This information can be detected
and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
generating continuously varying voltages and currents. The signals from these
sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification,
filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for input
to a microprocessor, which is used to manipulate, store or display the
information. In many cases the signals are further processed after conversion to
digital form using a technology called "digital signal processing." In addition,
digital signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide signals for
analog display, sound, or control functions. These manipulations and
transformations are collectively known as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology over the past 10 to 15 years
have led to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs
used for signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to
create VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) mixed-signal ICs that contain both
high-performance analog circuitry and large amounts of high-density digital
circuitry. The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating real-
world signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals into
digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
ICs resulting from these advances are used as components in equipment and
systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal processing.

COMPANY OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY

Analog believes it is one of the world's largest suppliers of SLIC products. The
Company's SLIC products are primarily high-performance, single-function devices.
The majority of the Company's SLIC revenue is attributable to data converters
(analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. SLICs are sold to a
very large customer base for a wide variety of applications, including
applications in the medical, engineering and scientific instruments market,
factory automation market and military/aerospace market.

Over the past five years, Analog has sought to balance its traditionally stable
SLIC business with growth opportunities for SPLICs and DSP ICs. Building upon
its expertise in linear IC technology, the Company has developed special-purpose
linear and mixed-signal ICs tailored to specific high-volume applications in
target markets. The Company also has extended its expertise in analog signal
processing and data conversion to develop DSP ICs. The Company's SPLICs and DSP
ICs address the emerging demand for high levels of performance in many
communications, computer and other high-volume applications. These products have
a high level of functionality (i.e., many functions on one chip) to satisfy
OEMs' requirements for an integrated solution with low cost per function.




To build upon its position as a leader in real-world signal processing, Analog
is pursuing strategies that include the following:

     -   Expand Traditional SLIC Business. The Company has taken a three-pronged
         approach to grow its SLIC business. First, it is seeking to solidify
         its leading position in the market for general purpose operational
         amplifiers and data converters, particularly in instrumentation and
         factory automation applications. Second, it is expanding its SLIC
         product portfolio to address other market segments, such as power
         management ICs for mobile phones and laptop computers and interface ICs
         for modems and printers. Third, the Company is developing SLICs for new
         high-volume applications in the communications, computer and consumer
         markets, including radio frequency ("RF") products for both wireless
         and broadband wired communication applications.

     -   Become a Major Supplier of General-Purpose DSP ICs. The Company's
         general-purpose DSP ICs consist of a family of programmable 16-bit
         fixed point and 32-bit floating point DSPs. These products offer
         processing speed, ease of programming and on-chip memory that allow
         system designers to cost effectively implement complex algorithms for
         signal processing applications. Analog believes that this product line
         will enable it to build a leading position in the general-purpose DSP
         market, principally for communications and computer applications.

     -   Pursue Growth Opportunities for System-Level Signal-Processing ICs. The
         Company is leveraging its expertise in both analog signal processing
         and data conversion to develop SPLICs and DSP ICs that provide
         system-level solutions for various growth applications, particularly in
         the communications and computer markets. The Company's system-level ICs
         often replace a combination of SLICs and general-purpose DSPs that are
         used by customers in their initial product designs. The Company offers
         system-level ICs for wireless communications applications such as
         digital mobile phones and base stations, and for computer applications
         such as audio enhancement in multimedia PCs.

     -   Leverage Core Technologies to Develop Innovative Products. The Company
         plans to continue applying its core technologies to develop a
         continuous flow of new products. In addition, the Company plans to
         continue to extend its core technologies to include new technologies,
         such as RF signal processing, which Analog has used primarily for
         wireless communications applications, and surface micromachining, which
         Analog has used to develop an accelerometer for automobile airbag
         systems. The Company intends to use its micromachining technology to
         address other applications outside the automotive industry.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications. Analog's products can be divided into
four classifications: SLICs; SPLICs and DSP ICs; hard disk drive ICs; and
assembled products.

A substantial portion of the Company's products are proprietary (available only
from Analog), while equivalents to most of its other products are available from
a limited number of other suppliers. Many of the Company's products tend to be
less price sensitive than other types of ICs, such as DRAM (Dynamic Random
Access Memory) ICs, primarily because there are fewer suppliers and because
OEMs, in many cases, after qualifying one manufacturer's high-performance linear
or mixed-signal IC for a specific application, are reluctant to switch
manufacturers due to the risk of degradation in the performance of their product
and/or the effort required to qualify additional suppliers.

The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of revenue
attributable to each of the Company's four product groups for the past three
fiscal years:






SLICs

Analog believes that it is one of the world's largest suppliers of SLIC
products. SLICs have been the foundation of the Company's business for more than
20 years. The Company's SLIC products are primarily high-performance, single-
function devices. The majority of the Company's SLIC revenue is attributable to
data converters (analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other
SLIC products offered by the Company include analog signal-processing devices
(such as analog multipliers), voltage references and comparators. The Company is
currently expanding its SLIC product offerings in areas where it traditionally
has had limited focus, principally interface circuits and power management ICs.
It is also expanding its SLIC product line to include a much larger number of
products designed to operate from single-supply 3- or 5-volt power sources to
better meet the needs of customers designing portable, battery- operated
equipment.

Analog's SLIC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems.
Analog's product portfolio includes several hundred SLICs, any one of which can
have as many as several hundred customers. SLICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's SLIC customers include both OEMs and customers who
build equipment for their own use. Historically, most SLICs have been purchased
by OEMs which serve the industrial and military/aerospace markets, but they are
now also being used for applications in commercial and consumer communications
equipment, personal computers (PCs) and peripheral equipment used with PCs and
computers.

By using standard, high-performance, readily available, off-the-shelf components
in their designs, Analog's customers can reduce the time required to develop and
bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs,
SLICs usually provide the most cost-effective solutions for low- to
medium-volume applications. In addition, combinations of SLICs connected
together on a printed circuit board can provide functionality that cannot
currently be implemented with a single-chip device.

SPLICs AND DSP ICs

SPLICs and DSP ICs, which are collectively referred to as system-level ICs, are
multi-function devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a
single chip. Most SPLICs are mixed-signal devices (some of which include DSP
capability) and the balance are linear-only devices. SPLICs are almost always
designed to the requirements of a specific application, and the design process
often includes significant input from one or more potential key customers.
Market demand for SPLICs is driven by the benefits that result from combining a
number of functions on a single circuit as opposed to a combination of SLICs and
other ICs. These benefits include higher performance, lower cost per function,
smaller size, lower weight, fewer parts and decreased power consumption. These
products enable customers to achieve easier design-ins and faster time to
market. The Company believes that these benefits are becoming more important to
the Company's OEM customers as they increase their focus on high-performance,
small, lightweight products, many of which are battery powered.

The Company's general-purpose DSP ICs are designed to efficiently execute
specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing real-time,
real-world data. The Company's fixed-point and floating-point DSP ICs share a
common architecture and code compatibility, which allows system designers to
address cost, performance and time-to- market constraints. Analog's DSP ICs are
supported with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools,
which reduce product development cost and time to market.

The Company's DSP ICs include general-purpose DSPs and mixed-signal ICs that
include a DSP core along with data conversion and analog signal processing
circuitry. Demand for system-level ICs that incorporate both DSP functionality
and sophisticated mixed-signal capability tailored to specific applications is
increasing as customers continue to demand as much functionality as possible
from a single chip.

HARD DISK DRIVE ICs

ICs in this product category are used in hard disk drives that serve as rotating
mass storage devices in end products such as PCs, workstations and network
servers. These ICs process analog signals from a hard disk drive's read/write
head during read operations and position the read/write head over the desired
track on a hard disk drive platter during read and write operations.




ASSEMBLED PRODUCTS

The Company's assembled products consist of hybrids, printed-board modules and
multi-chip modules ("MCMs"). A hybrid consists of several chips and discrete
components mounted and wired together on a substrate. A printed-board module
consists of surface-mount components assembled on a small printed board that is
then encapsulated in a small plastic case. An MCM consists of several chips
assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides high
interconnect density at low cost.

Revenues from this product group have been declining since 1989, as hybrids have
been replaced in many new designs with smaller, lower-cost monolithic ICs that
offer higher levels of performance and integration. The Company plans to
continue marketing printed-board modules (primarily input/output modules used in
industrial control and factory automation applications). Orders for assembled
products overall showed a year-over-year increase in fiscal 1995 following
several years of decline as demand for recently designed MCMs offset declining
demand for older hybrid products.

MARKET AND APPLICATIONS

The Company's products are sold primarily to OEMs that incorporate them in
equipment, instruments and systems sold to end users for a wide variety of
applications, including communications equipment; computers and computer
peripherals; engineering, medical and scientific instruments; factory automation
equipment; military/aerospace equipment; high-end consumer electronics products;
and automotive. The Company's growth has been aided both by the expansion of
these markets and the increasing use of computer technology in the equipment and
systems sold in these markets.

For fiscal 1995, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 25%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented less than 5%
of net sales. Sales of the Company's products are not highly seasonal.

Listed below are some of the characteristics of each of the Company's major
served markets:

COMMUNICATIONS -- includes data and fax modems, digital cellular telephones and
portable, wireless communications equipment and broadband wired applications.
The need for ever higher speed, coupled with more reliable, more
bandwidth-efficient communications is creating increasing demand for systems
that include both digital and analog signal processing capability. Demand for
signal processing ICs for this market is also being driven by the equipment
manufacturers' need for components that enable them to develop cost-effective
products that feature high performance, small size, low weight and minimal power
consumption.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS -- includes high-performance personal
computers, workstations and peripheral devices such as hard disk drives. The
Company currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market for functions
such as graphic displays; interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as modems
and printers; power and battery management; and enhanced sound input and output
capability for business and entertainment applications.

INSTRUMENTATION -- includes manufacturers of engineering, medical and scientific
instruments. These products are usually designed using the highest performance
SLICs available, where production volumes generally do not warrant custom or
application-specific ICs.

FACTORY AUTOMATION -- includes data acquisition systems, automatic process
control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test
equipment ("ATE"). These products generally require ICs that offer performance
greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations
of SLICs are therefore usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality,
except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required
per tester has created opportunities for SPLICs.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE -- includes the military, commercial avionics and space
markets, all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous
environmental and reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's SLICs
can be supplied in versions that meet appropriate military standards. In
addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for
broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of the
Company's products sold into this market are derived from standard commercial
grade ICs, although the Company sometimes develops products expressly for
military/aerospace applications.




CONSUMER ELECTRONICS -- The emergence of high-performance consumer products,
such as compact disc players, digital VCRs, digital audio tape equipment and
digital camcorders, has led to the need for high-performance SPLICs with a high
level of functionality. Although the Company's revenue from this market is not
currently significant, the Company expects to supply ICs for sophisticated
products used by consumers for computing, communications and entertainment
applications, and believes that many of these applications will involve digital
signal processing.

AUTOMOTIVE -- Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, Analog is developing products
specifically for the automotive market. The Company began shipments of its first
automotive product, a micromachined IC employed as a crash sensor in airbag
systems, in 1993. This product serves as an alternative to an electromechanical
sensor. The Company began shipments of this device to Delco in 1994 for use in
several 1995 model-year General Motors "W body" cars. It is also being used in,
or has been selected for, several other manufacturers' airbag systems.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. Analog spent $134.3 million
during fiscal 1995 for the design, development and improvement of new and
existing products and processes, compared to $106.9 million during fiscal 1994
and $94.1 million during fiscal 1993.

In fiscal 1995, approximately half of the Company's R&D expenditures were
devoted to the design and development of SPLICs and DSP ICs, and the development
and improvement of processes used for these products. The Company believes that
it will be able to leverage its core technological competencies and leadership
position in linear and DSP technology to design and develop a wide range of
highly integrated, high-performance, cost-effective mixed-signal SPLICs, many of
which will include DSP capability. At the same time, however, the Company
expects to continue developing new and improved SLIC products to increase its
share of the SLIC market. In support of its research and development activities,
the Company employs several hundred engineers involved in product and process
development at several design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout
the world.

As of October 28, 1995, the Company owned 311 U.S. patents and had 210 patent
applications on file with the United States patent office. The Company believes
that while its patents may provide some advantage, its competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
the Company's personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing
marketing efforts, customer service and technical support.

SALES CHANNELS

Analog sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 44% of fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1995, the Company had 15 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of nine national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives with numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

Approximately 28% of the Company's fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 17% to customers in Japan; and 11% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1995, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or distributors
in approximately 27 countries outside North America, including countries where
the Company also has direct sales offices.

Approximately 42% of Analog's fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. The Company's distributors typically maintain an inventory
of Analog products. Some of these distributors also sell products competitive
with the Company's products, including those for which the Company is an
alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements which
provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of Company products
against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or have been
discontinued by the Company. These agreements generally contain a provision for
the return of the products to the Company in the event the relationship with the
distributor is terminated.




Sales to North American distributors are not recognized until the products are
resold by distributors to their customers. Sales made to distributors outside
North America are recognized upon shipment to the distributor, but the Company
provides specific reserves for possible returns and allowances.

The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars;
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
maintains a staff of application engineers who aid customers in incorporating
Analog's products into their products during their product development cycles.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the
wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into packages and
electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used
to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals
(including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and plastic used
for plastic packaging.

In addition to using industry-standard bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication
processes, Analog employs a number of Company-developed proprietary processes
specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear and
mixed-signal SLICs and SPLICs.

Analog's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities
and by third-party wafer fabricators. Assuming that the Company can continue to
maintain favorable relationships with its third-party wafer fabricators, it
intends to continue using such suppliers for meeting most of its needs for
wafers that can be fabricated using industry- standard digital processes. The   
Company intends to rely primarily on its own facilities for production of
wafers fabricated with linear and mixed-signal processes. The Company operates
wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts; Santa Clara,
California; and Limerick, Ireland for production of linear and mixed-signal
devices. The Company also operates assembly and test facilities located in the
United States, Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company uses two
principal foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Chartered
Semiconductor Corporation for the production of digital and VLSI mixed-signal
devices.

Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

As a result of strong demand for its products, the Company was manufacturing    
capacity constrained throughout most of fiscal 1995. While the Company is
planning in fiscal 1996 to increase substantially its manufacturing capacity
through both expansion of its production facilities and increased access to
third-party wafer foundries, there can be no assurance that the Company will
complete the expansion of its production facilities or secure increased access
to third-party foundries in a timely manner, that the Company will not
encounter unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or at
third-party foundries or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand for its products.



BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal year 1995 was approximately $286.8 million; it was
approximately $152.8 million at the end of the fiscal year 1994. The Company
defines its backlog at any point in time as those orders for which customers
have requested shipment within the next 13 weeks. The quantities of the
Company's products to be delivered and their delivery schedules, as covered by
customer purchase orders, are frequently revised by customers to reflect changes
in their needs. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, the Company may
allow such orders to be canceled or deliveries delayed by the customer without
significant penalty. In addition, the Company's backlog includes its orders from
domestic distributors as to which revenues are not recognized until the products
are sold by the distributors. Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog
at any time should not be used as a measure of future revenues.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 13% of its total worldwide revenue is
attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government contractors and
subcontractors. Analog's government contract-related business is predominantly
in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-priced subcontracts. All such contracts
and subcontracts contain standard provisions related to termination at the
election of the United States government. The Company expects that the U.S.
government's intention to further reduce U.S. military spending will result in a
continuing gradual reduction in the percentage of the Company's total sales
going to governmental users and contractors.

COMPETITION

Analog competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers
of high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components. These
types of products fall into both the SLIC and SPLIC product categories.
Competitors for the Company's linear and mixed-signal products include Brooktree
Corp., Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Exar Corp., Harris Corp., Linear
Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp.,
Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc., Silicon Systems (a subsidiary of TDK
Corp), Texas Instruments, Inc. and others.

Sales of DSP ICs represent a growing percentage of the Company's total sales.
Analog's competitors for DSP ICs include AT&T, Integrated Device Technology,
Inc., Motorola Semiconductor Products and Texas Instruments, Inc.

Many other companies offer components that compete with Analog's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than Analog's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies (which in some cases may be viewed as a
means by which the acquiring company gains in-house capability). However, to the
Company's knowledge, no manufacturer competes with Analog across all of the
product types offered by the Company in its signal-processing components product
line.

Analog believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. Analog believes its aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by its
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, will allow the
Company to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets against both
foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.




EMPLOYEES

As of October 28, 1995, the Company employed approximately 6,000 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Analog has direct sales offices in 16 countries outside the United States. For
fiscal 1995, Analog's international sales accounted for approximately 56% of
total sales, the majority of which were made through its direct international
sales offices while the balance, approximately 40% of the total, were made
through distributors. In addition, the Company has manufacturing facilities in
Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company also has arrangements with
subcontractors, principally in the Far East, for the wafer fabrication, assembly
and testing of certain products.




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
Manufacturing and other operations are carried on in several locations
worldwide. The following tables provide certain information as to the Company's
principal general offices and manufacturing facilities:





(1)  See Note 6 - "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements for information regarding contingent liabilities
     related to the lease of the Norwood, Massachusetts property.
(2)  The Westwood, Massachusetts facility is subject to a 25-year capital lease
     with an option to purchase.




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- (CONTINUED)

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the previous table, 
the Company also leases sales offices and other premises at 25 locations in the
United States and 25 locations overseas under operating lease agreements.
These leases expire at various dates through the year 2010. The Company
anticipates no difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of its manufacturing,
office or sales facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or
through month-to-month occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent
facilities. See Note 5 - "Lease Commitments" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information concerning the Company's obligations under
all operating and capital leases.





ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents is also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. If it is
determined that the Company has violated the cease and desist order, the ITC
could seek to impose penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the
date of the cease and desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the
value of the goods determined to be sold in violation of the order. In addition,
in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in Massachusetts
alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of the Company's
patents.

Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both Texas lawsuits and the
Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a royalty-free cross license of
certain of the Company's and TI's patents. On April 25, 1995, the Company filed
with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC enforcement proceeding on the grounds
that further action by the ITC is unnecessary in light of the Company's
settlement with TI. On May 8 1995, an Administrative Law Judge issued a
recommended determination to the ITC to grant the Company's motion to terminate
the ITC proceeding. The investigative office of the ITC has opposed the motion,
claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's settlement with TI, the Company's
alleged violation of the ITC's cease and desist order warrants the imposition of
substantial penalties. The Company's motion is pending before the ITC.

MAXIM LITIGATION

The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc. ("Maxim") in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California seeking an injunction against, and claiming damages for, alleged
antitrust violations and unfair competition in connection with distribution
arrangements between the Company and certain distributors. Maxim alleged that
certain distributors ceased doing business with Maxim as a result of the
distribution arrangements between the distributors and the Company, resulting in
improper restrictions to Maxim's access to channels by which it distributes its
products. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount of $14.1
million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified amount.
Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any actual
damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. On September 7, 1994,
Maxim's claim was dismissed for lack of evidence. Maxim has appealed this ruling
and oral argument of the appeal was held in January 1996.

For additional information concerning the above-described lawsuits and the
potential impact of such suits upon the Company's financial condition and
results of operations, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

OTHER

In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, personal injury, environmental matters and product liability. Such
litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against the Company by
Sextant Avionique, S.A. ("Sextant") in Paris, France, which claims that the
Company's accelerometer infringes certain Sextant patents and seeks to enjoin   
such infringement. While there can be no assurance that the Company will 
prevail in all of these matters, the Company does not believe that these        
matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of operations. However, an adverse
resolution could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results
of operations in the quarter in which these matters are resolved.




ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended October 28, 1995.



                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY


The following table sets forth (i) the name and age of each present executive
officer of the Company; (ii) the position(s) presently held by each person
named; and (iii) the principal occupations held by each person named for at
least the past five years.



There is no family relationship among the named officers.




                                                  PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the high and low prices of the Common
Stock during the two most recent fiscal years.


                                            
On November 28, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995. All
stock prices in the table above have been restated to reflect the split.

The Company's $60,000,000 credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash
dividend payments declared or made subsequent to January 30, 1993 to an amount
not exceeding $29,734,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the Company
for the period from January 31, 1993 through the end of the Company's then most
recent fiscal quarter. At October 28, 1995 this amount was equal to
$144,782,000. Although prior credit agreements may not have restricted the
payment of dividends, the Company has never paid any cash dividends on its
Common Stock.

The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock at
December 29, 1995 was 4,429. This number does not include shareholders for whom
shares are held in a "nominee" or "street" name.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



(1) All references to per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
    three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
    distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995.




ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FISCAL 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1994

The Company reported net sales of $941.5 million in fiscal 1995, up $168 million
or 22% from net sales of $773.5 million in fiscal 1994. Fiscal year 1995 sales
growth was attributable to significant increases in sales volumes of both the
Company's standard linear IC and system-level IC products as worldwide demand
for precision integrated circuit products accelerated throughout fiscal 1995,
exceeding the Company's expectations and capacity. Demand for the Company's ICs
was strong both in its core industrial and instrumentation markets and in
high-growth applications in the communications, computer and portable, wireless
equipment markets. Total IC sales, representing both standard linear and
system-level ICs, constituted approximately 92% of total sales in fiscal 1995,
continuing the long-term trend of IC sales becoming a larger portion of the
Company's revenues.

Sales of the Company's standard linear IC products, which make up the largest
and most profitable part of the Company's business, increased approximately 
$137 million or nearly 30% in fiscal 1995. Standard linear IC sales also
increased as a percentage of total sales, accounting for 64% of total sales in
fiscal 1995 compared to 60% in fiscal 1994. The growth in sales of standard
linear ICs was primarily driven by increased penetration of the Company's data
converter and amplifier products in high-performance instrumentation and
factory automation applications and greater use of standard linear IC products
in new high-volume applications in the communications, computer and consumer
markets including digital cellular handsets and base stations, video
applications and imaging applications. As in fiscal 1994, the distributor       
channel continued to have a positive effect on the Company's standard linear IC
product line in fiscal 1995; distribution has become the fastest growing
channel for these products.

Sales of system-level ICs, excluding those used in hard disk drives, increased
approximately $70 million or 46% in fiscal 1995, as the Company achieved
substantial bookings and revenue gains in its general-purpose digital signal
processing products and mixed-signal ICs for application-specific
system-on-a-chip solutions. The strongest end user market growth for the
Company's system-level IC products was experienced in wireless communications
applications, including digital mobile phones and base stations, and computer
applications, including audio enhancement in multimedia PCs. As a percentage of
total sales, system-level IC products, with the exception of hard disk drive
products, increased to 24% of total sales compared to 20% in fiscal 1994. Sales
of hard disk drive products in fiscal 1995 declined $37 million or 53% compared
to fiscal 1994 due to a combination of scarcity of wafers and the rapid movement
of this market to digital PRML channels.

Sales of the Company's assembled products decreased approximately $2.5 million
or 3% from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995 and as a percentage of total sales
decreased from 11% to 8% over this same period. This sales decrease was
comparatively less than in prior years as sales demand for newer multi-chip
modules for the communications market began to offset the decline in older
military hybrids.

In fiscal 1995, sales to North American customers increased $68.3 million or 20%
over fiscal 1994 to $412.2 million. Sales to customers outside North America,
primarily Europe, Japan and Southeast Asia, increased $99.7 million or 23% to
$529.3 million. The distributor channel was a major contributor to sales growth
in North America as well as in Europe and Japan especially for standard linear
IC products. North American sales through distribution increased approximately
40% over the prior year while worldwide sales through distribution increased
approximately 55% from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995. On a worldwide basis, sales
through distribution accounted for approximately 42% of total sales in fiscal
1995 compared to 33% in fiscal 1994. Sales to European customers increased $66.4
million or 34% to $264 million, with much of this growth resulting from the
Company's increased penetration of applications in the communications market,
particularly in handsets and basestations used in the GSM (Global System for
Mobile Communications) digital cellular telephone system now widely deployed in
Western Europe. Sales in Japan increased $32.1 million or 24% to $165.1 million
largely as a result of increased sales of standard linear IC products for 
factory automation and other industrial market applications. A weaker average 
U.S. dollar exchange rate also contributed to some of the improvement in 
European and Japanese sales. Sales to customers in Southeast Asia of $100 
million were essentially flat compared to fiscal 1994 due to the significant 
decline in hard disk drive sales. As a percentage of total




sales, North American and international sales accounted for 44% and 56%,
respectively, unchanged from the comparable percentages in fiscal 1994.

As a result of strong demand for its products, the Company was manufacturing
capacity constrained throughout most of fiscal 1995.  The Company is pursuing a
multi-faceted manufacturing capacity expansion program to substantially
increase the number of fabricated wafers available to it in fiscal 1996 and
beyond. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for a discussion of the
Company's efforts to address its capacity issues.

Gross margin increased to 50.7% of sales in fiscal 1995 compared to 49.0% of
sales in fiscal 1994. The increase in gross margin was principally due to a
higher proportion of standard linear IC products in the mix of products sold,
which generally have higher gross margins than the Company's system-level IC
products. The improvement in gross margin in fiscal 1995 was also attributable
to greater capacity utilization, resulting in the absorption of fixed
manufacturing costs over increased production volumes.

Research and development expenses increased approximately 26% in fiscal 1995 to
$134.3 million or 14.3% of sales. This increase was mainly due to higher
spending in the development of new products and technologies targeted for the
communications, computer and automotive markets, including initiatives in
general-purpose digital signal processing such as the Company's SHARC product
family, system-level ICs for computer audio and wireless communications
applications, RF signal processing, surface micromachining technology,
accelerometer products and continued development of innovative SLIC products
and processes. The increase in R&D expenditures in fiscal 1995 was also
attributable to increased staffing of design engineering personnel and the
start up of two new design centers. The Company believes that technical
leadership in the semiconductor industry is critical to its future success and
is committed to maintaining a high level of research and development effort.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expense growth in fiscal
1995 was held to 8.6%, as SMG&A increased from $170.3 million in fiscal 1994 to
$184.9 million in fiscal 1995. SMG&A expenses continued to decline as a
percentage of sales to 19.6% in fiscal 1995 compared to 22.0% in fiscal 1994
and 23.8% in fiscal 1993, consistent with the Company's goal of constraining
SMG&A spending growth to a rate significantly below sales growth. The increase
in SMG&A expenses in absolute dollars was primarily related to higher incentive
expenses associated with improved revenue and profitability levels, and greater
product advertising and related promotional costs in support of the Company's
product lines and customer base.

Operating income grew 55% to 16.8% of sales compared to 13.2% of sales in
fiscal 1994. This performance gain reflected the combination of accelerated
demand for the Company's products, improved gross margin and continuing
commitment to growing expenses more slowly than sales.

Nonoperating expenses decreased $6.6 million in fiscal 1995 due primarily to a
$2.9 million decrease in interest expense and a $2.9 million increase in
interest income. The reduction in interest expense from fiscal 1994 to fiscal
1995 was due in large part to the maturity of a $20 million term loan early in
the first quarter of fiscal 1995 while the increase in interest income over
this same period was attributable to a higher average level of cash investments
and a higher weighted average investment rate in fiscal 1995 versus fiscal
1994. Interest expense in fiscal 1996 will increase from fiscal 1995 as a
result of the issuance of $230,000,000 of 3- 1/2% Convertible Subordinated
Notes in December 1995.

The effective income tax rate increased to 25.2% in fiscal 1995 from 23.1% in
fiscal 1994 due to earnings growth in higher tax rate jurisdictions including
the U.S. The Company maintains a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
which was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, based on
management's assessment that realization of such deferred tax assets was not
assured for book and tax capital losses and book basis foreign tax credits.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses yielded a 60% rise in net income to $119.3 million or 12.7% of sales
compared to $74.5 million or 9.6% of sales. Earnings per share in fiscal 1995
grew 56% to $1.00 from $0.64 in fiscal 1994.



The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company is in the process of determining the effect of
adoption of these statements on its consolidated financial statements and
related disclosures.

The impact of inflation on the Company's business during the past three years
has not been significant.

FISCAL 1994 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1993

Net sales of $773.5 million for fiscal 1994 increased 16% from net sales of
$666.3 million for fiscal 1993. The sales increase was due principally to
higher sales volumes of both standard linear IC and system-level IC products
which together grew approximately 20% year-over-year to comprise approximately
89% of total sales for fiscal 1994.

Standard linear IC sales rose approximately $66.5 million or approximately 17%
to $467.5 million in fiscal 1994. This increase was primarily due to the
combination of increased penetration of the distribution channel coupled with
well accepted new product offerings.

Sales of system-level IC products grew approximately $49.0 million or
approximately 28% to $224.0 million in fiscal 1994. This growth was
attributable largely to increased demand for applications in personal computers
and wireless communications products, and the Company's broader participation
in these growing markets.

Sales of assembled products declined approximately 9% from fiscal 1993 to
fiscal 1994 and as a percentage of total sales decreased from 14% to 11% over
the same period.

Sales to North American customers increased 18% over fiscal 1993 levels to
$343.9 million with much of this increase coming from the distributor channel
as sales through North American distributors increased 36% from the prior year.
Sales to international customers grew 15% led by sales increases of
approximately 27% and 35% in Japan and Southeast Asia, respectively. Sales
growth in Japan was mainly attributable to increased demand for standard linear
IC products, aided in part by the translation of yen-denominated sales to a
weaker average U.S. dollar. The sales increase in Southeast Asia represented
continued strength in sales of personal computer products. European sales of
$197.9 million for fiscal 1994 were flat compared to the prior year due to
weaker European industrial economies as compared to fiscal 1993. Sales growth
in Europe resumed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994, growing again after
weakness in the first nine months of the year as the European economy showed
improvement, particularly Germany. As a percentage of total net sales, North
American and international sales remained at 44% and 56%, respectively, which
were comparable to fiscal 1993.

Gross margin improved to 49.0% of sales for fiscal 1994 compared to 47.3% for
fiscal 1993. This increase resulted principally from a significant improvement
in gross margin for system-level IC products as variable manufacturing costs
declined and fixed costs were allocated over greater production volumes. Gross
margin for the Company's standard linear IC products remained at a high level
and gross margin on all IC products, which include both standard linear and
system-level ICs, was approximately 50% of sales.

R&D expenses for fiscal 1994 increased 13.6% from fiscal 1993 as the Company
continued to invest in new product development. As a percentage of sales, R&D
expenses were 13.8% in fiscal 1994 compared to 14.1% in fiscal 1993.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expenses grew 7.4%
compared to fiscal 1993, increasing at a lower rate than sales. As a result,
SMG&A as a percentage of sales decreased to 22.0% for fiscal 1994 from 23.8%
for fiscal 1993. The increase in SMG&A expenses related mostly to increased
strategic advertising and marketing expenses associated with many new product
launches and additional incentive expense associated with the Company's
improved performance.



In total, operating expenses were reduced to 35.8% of sales, down from 37.9% in
fiscal 1993, consistent with the Company's emphasis on maintaining tight
control over all costs in order to gain better operating leverage on increases
in revenues.

Operating income reached 13.2% of sales for fiscal 1994, an increase of nearly
four percentage points from 9.4% of sales for fiscal 1993. This performance
gain reflected the higher sales level, improvement in gross margin as a
percentage of sales and slower rate of expense growth versus sales.

Nonoperating expenses decreased $2.3 million, benefiting from increased
interest income on a higher level of invested cash as net interest expense was
reduced from $5.8 million in fiscal 1993 to $2.0 million in fiscal 1994.

The effective income tax rate increased to 23% in fiscal 1994 from 20% in
fiscal 1993 due to a shift in the mix of worldwide income.  In the first
quarter of fiscal 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("FAS 109"). The impact of
adopting FAS 109 was not material to the Company's consolidated financial
statements. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $14.3 million was
established at October 31, 1993 based on management's assessment that
realization of such deferred tax assets was not assured for book and tax
capital losses, book basis foreign tax credits, and general business tax
credits.  The net change in the valuation allowance for the year ended October 
29, 1994 was a decrease of $4.3 million primarily from the utilization of 
general business tax credits.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses resulted in a 68% rise in net income to $74.5 million or 9.6% of sales
in fiscal 1994 compared to $44.5 million or 6.7% of sales in fiscal 1993.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At October 28, 1995, the Company had $151.1 million of cash and cash
equivalents and short-term investments compared to $181.8 million at October
29, 1994. The Company's operating activities generated net cash of $210.3
million, or 22.3% of sales, and $186.6 million, or 24.1% of sales, in fiscal
1995 and fiscal 1994, respectively. Investing activities used $238.7 million in
fiscal 1995 and $166.8 million in fiscal 1994 while financing activities used
$10.9 million in fiscal 1995 and generated $10.0 million in fiscal 1994.
Working capital decreased to $271.6 million at the end of fiscal 1995 from
$299.3 million at the end of fiscal 1994. This decrease was primarily due to
lower cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments which were used in part
to fund investing activities in fiscal 1995, and secondarily to increased
accounts payable and accrued liabilities associated with an expanded scale of
operations.

The Company's primary source of funds in fiscal years 1995 and 1994 was net
cash generated by operations. The $23.7 million increase in operating cash
flows from $186.6 million in fiscal 1994 to $210.3 million fiscal 1995 was
largely attributable to higher net income and an increase in accounts payable
and accrued liabilities, changes which were offset in large part by growth in
inventories and accounts receivable. The noncash effect of depreciation and
amortization expense was $64.1 million and $61.3 million in fiscal 1995 and
fiscal 1994, respectively. As a result of internal capacity expansion,
depreciation expense is expected to be higher in fiscal 1996 as these additions
begin to ramp up.

Accounts receivable of $181.3 million at the end of fiscal 1995 increased $19.0
million or 11.7% from $162.3 million at the end of fiscal 1994. This increase
compared favorably to the 27% increase in fourth quarter sales between the two
years as the rise in sales was more than offset by improved collection of
receivables. As a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales, accounts
receivable was reduced to 17.6% at the end of fiscal 1995 compared to 20.0% at
the end of fiscal 1994.

Inventories rose $13.2 million or 10.1% over the prior year to $144.0 million
at the end of fiscal 1995. This increase was primarily due to a build in
inventory levels needed to service increasing sales volumes. Year-end
inventories as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales decreased from
16.1% in fiscal 1994 to 14.0% in fiscal 1995. In fiscal 1996, as additional
manufacturing capacity becomes available, the Company intends to increase
inventory levels in order to improve customer response times.



Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $39.6 million or 29.4%
compared to the balance at the end of fiscal 1994 due principally to increased
expense activity related to the higher revenue level and increased capital
expenditures in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995 when compared to the
year-earlier period. The increase in income taxes payable of 70.2% or $20.7
million was primarily attributable to increased profitability in fiscal 1995 as
compared to fiscal 1994.

The Company's principal investment activities during fiscal 1995 were in
support of its manufacturing capacity expansion programs and included capital
expenditures of $212.7 million and an investment of $14.0 million in a wafer
fabrication company in Singapore.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 1995 were significantly higher than in fiscal
1994 with a significant portion of these expenditures related to the
construction of the Company's first six-inch wafer fabrication module which was
completed in fiscal 1995 at the Company's Limerick, Ireland manufacturing site.
This module is now undergoing test and qualification and is expected to begin
supplying production wafers before the end of the first half of fiscal 1996. It
will be used initially to fabricate mixed-signal VLSI products on a 0.6 micron
digital CMOS process. The capital expenditures and start-up costs associated
with this expansion will be supported in part by grants of up to 10.1 million
Irish Pounds (approximately $16.4 million at October 28, 1995) from the
Industrial Development Authority  ("IDA") of Ireland. As of October 28, 1995,
the Company had not received any grant monies under this agreement.

During fiscal 1995, the Company also began upgrading its existing Wilmington,
Massachusetts wafer fabrication facility from four- inch to six-inch wafer
production. This additional capacity, which will also become available in the
latter half of fiscal 1996, will be used primarily for high-speed linear
products. In addition, the Company purchased an existing six-inch wafer
fabrication module located close to its Santa Clara, California site. This
facility is being upgraded and modernized to produce advanced linear technology
ICs, and is expected to go into production in the latter half of fiscal 1996.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995, the Company also completed construction of
a new engineering, marketing and administrative facility in Wilmington,
Massachusetts and commenced an expansion of the Company's test and back end
facilities in the Philippines.

In fiscal 1995, the Company entered into a supply agreement with its primary
wafer foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ("TSMC"). Under
this agreement, the Company will make a series of advance payments to TSMC
aggregating $22.4 million, payable over a three-year period, in order to secure
access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the period from 1996 to 1999.
The first of such payments pursuant to this agreement was made in June 1995 and
remaining payments are due in June of each year through 1998. The advance
payments will be repaid to the Company each year in the form of credits against
the prices of wafers purchased by the Company when such wafer purchases exceed
a defined minimum.

In fiscal 1995, the Company made an equity investment of $14.0 million in
Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") in Singapore and
invested an additional $6.0 million in January 1996, in exchange for a less
than 5% ownership interest. This investment is structured to provide access to
CSM's new eight-inch 0.5 micron wafer fabrication facility through wafer supply
and pricing commitments beginning in 1996. The investment in CSM is classified 
in the balance sheet line item, "Deferred Charges and Other Assets."

In January 1996, the Company entered into an additional agreement with CSM,
whereby the Company will provide a total deposit of approximately $20.0 million
to be paid in several installments in 1996 and 1997. Under the terms of this
agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to certain quantities of
sub-micron wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does not purchase the
minimum quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be forfeited for the
value of the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20.0 million. At the
end of the agreement term, the Company's deposit will be returned, net of any
forfeitures.

The Company currently plans to make capital expenditures of approximately $275
million in fiscal 1996, primarily in connection with the continued expansion of
its manufacturing capacity. In addition, the Company is continuing to explore
various options for increasing its manufacturing capacity, including joint
ventures, acquisitions, equity investments in or loans to wafer suppliers and
construction of additional facilities.



Cash used in the Company's financing activities was principally for the
repayment of a $20.0 million term loan in the first quarter of fiscal 1995.
Financing activities in fiscal 1995 also generated cash of $10.1 million from
the issuance of common stock under stock purchase and stock option plans.

At October 28, 1995, the Company's principal sources of liquidity included
$69.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $81.8 million of short-term
investments. Short-term investments at the end of fiscal 1995 consisted of
commercial paper, bankers' acceptances and Euro time deposits with maturities
greater than three months and less than six months at the time of acquisition.
The Company also has various lines of credit both in the U.S. and overseas,
including a $60 million credit facility in the U.S.  which expires in 1998, all
of which were substantially unused at the end of fiscal 1995. At the end of
fiscal 1995, the Company's debt-to-equity ratio was 13%.

On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000
of five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1996. The Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into the
Company's common stock at any time after 60 days following the date of original
issuance, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $27.913 per
share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The net proceeds from the sale
of the Notes were approximately $224,000,000 after payment of the underwriting
discount and expenses of the offering which will be amortized over the term of
the Notes. As of December 31, 1995, the Company's total long-term debt was
$310,000,000, comprised of the $230,000,000 of 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated
Notes and $80,000,000 of 6 5/8% Notes.

The Company believes that its existing sources of liquidity and cash expected
to be generated from future operations, together with current and anticipated
available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital
expenditures and research and development efforts for the foreseeable future.

LITIGATION

As set forth in Item 3 - "Business-Legal Proceedings," the Company is engaged
in an enforcement proceeding brought by the International Trade Commission
("ITC") related to previously settled patent infringement litigation with Texas
Instruments, Inc. The Company is also engaged in antitrust litigation with
Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

If it is determined that the Company has violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), the ITC could seek to impose
penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the date of the cease and
desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the value of goods 
determined to be sold in violation of the order.

The dismissal of Maxim's claims has been appealed. The Company believes it has
meritorious defenses to Maxim's antitrust allegations and intends to vigorously
defend the suit. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount
of $14.1 million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified
amount. Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any
actual damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. If the
dismissal is overturned on appeal and Maxim's claims are upheld in a subsequent
trial on the merits, in addition to potential damage awards the Company may be
required to modify its relationships with its distributors.

Although the Company believes it should prevail in the matters described above,
the Company is unable to determine their ultimate outcome or estimate the
ultimate amount of liability, if any, at this time. An adverse resolution of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of operations or
cash flows in the period in which the matters are resolved.



FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE RESULTS

The Company's future operating results are difficult to predict and may be
affected by a number of factors including the timing of new product
announcements or introductions by the Company and its competitors, competitive
pricing pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability
of wafers and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix and economic
conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, the
semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant
economic downturns at various times. While the semiconductor industry in recent
periods has experienced increased demand and production capacity constraints,
it is uncertain how long these conditions will continue. As a result of these
and other factors, there can be no assurance that the Company will not
experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or
annual basis.

The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to develop and
market new products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or that such products, if
developed, will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the Company's growth is
dependent on its continued ability to penetrate new markets such as the
communications, computer and automotive segments of the electronics market,
where the Company has limited experience and competition is intense. There can
be no assurance that the markets being served by the Company will continue to
grow; that the Company's existing and new products will meet the requirements
of such markets; that the Company's products will achieve customer acceptance
in such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low
level or take market share from the Company; or that the Company can achieve or
maintain profits in these markets. Also, some of the customers in these markets
are less well established which could subject the Company to increased credit
risk.

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Certain of the Company's
competitors have greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial
resources than the Company. The Company's competitors also include emerging
companies attempting to sell products to specialized markets such as those
served by the Company. Competitors of the Company have, in some cases,
developed and marketed products having similar design and functionality as the
Company's products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that
the Company's operating results will not be adversely affected by increased
price competition.

The Company's manufacturing facilities are operating at full capacity, and
therefore the Company's business is currently constrained. While the Company is
planning in fiscal 1996 to increase substantially its manufacturing capacity
through both expansion of its production facilities and increased access to
third-party foundries; there can be no assurance that the Company will complete
the expansion of its production facilities or secure increased access to third
party foundries in a timely manner; that the Company will not encounter
unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or at
third-party foundries; or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand for its products. The Company relies, and plans to continue to
rely, on third-party wafer fabricators to supply most of its wafers that can be
manufactured using industry-standard digital processes, and such reliance
involves several risks, including the absence of adequate guaranteed capacity
and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.
Continued manufacturing capacity constraints could adversely affect the
business of the Company's customers and cause them to seek alternative sources
for the products currently obtained from the Company. In addition, the
Company's capacity additions will result in a significant increase in operating
expenses, and if revenue levels do not increase to offset these additional
expense levels, the Company's future operating results could be adversely
affected. The Company also believes that other semiconductor manufacturers are
also expanding or planning to expand their production capacity over the next
several years, and there can be no assurance that the expansion by the Company
and its competitors will not lead to overcapacity in the Company's target
markets, which could lead to price erosion that would adversely affect the
Company's operating results.

For fiscal 1995, 56% of the Company's revenues were derived from customers in
international markets. The Company has manufacturing facilities in Ireland, the
Philippines and Taiwan. The Company is therefore subject to the economic and
political risks inherent in international operations, including expropriation,
air transportation disruptions, currency controls and changes in currency
exchange rates, tax and tariff rates and freight rates. Although the Company
engages in certain hedging transactions to reduce its exposure to currency
exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that the Company's
competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange
rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.



The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation
involving patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties
asserting that the Company's products or processes infringe their patents or
other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid
intellectual property claim and a license is not available on commercially
reasonable terms, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents or other
intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against
claims of infringement, and such litigation can be costly and divert the
attention of key personnel. See Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings" for information
concerning pending litigation involving the Company. An adverse resolution of
such litigation, may, in certain cases, have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved.

Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be
considered an indicator of future performance.  Investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate future results and should be aware that the
trading price of the Company's common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations
in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, general
conditions in the semiconductor industry, changes in earnings estimates and
recommendations by analysts or other events.








                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995

                                     ITEM 8

          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION






                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS








               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices,
Inc. as of October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended October 28, 1995. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item
14(a).  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Analog
Devices, Inc. at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended October 28, 1995, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.


                                                 ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
November 28, 1995
except for the fifth paragraph of Note 4,
as to which the date is December 18, 1995






                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME




See accompanying notes.






                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


See accompanying notes.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


See accompanying notes.





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying notes.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995, OCTOBER 29, 1994 AND OCTOBER 30, 1993
          (ALL TABULAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a. PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. The Company's fiscal year
ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal years 1995, 1994
and 1993 were each 52-week years.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to
the 1995 presentation.

b. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with insignificant
interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at the time of
acquisition. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months at time
of acquisition are considered short- term investments. Short-term investments
consist of debt securities such as commercial paper, time deposits, certificates
of deposit and bankers acceptances.

Effective October 30, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" (FAS 115), which creates certain classification categories
for such investments, based on the nature of the securities and the intent and
investment goals of the Company. FAS 115 has been adopted on a prospective
basis, and the financial statements of prior years have not been restated. The
cumulative effect of the change was not material. FAS 115 requires investments
in debt and equity securities to be classified as "held-to-maturity,"
"available-for-sale," or "trading" at the time of purchase and for such
designation to be reevaluated as of each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity
securities, which are carried at amortized cost, include only those securities
the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains
and losses, net of related tax, if any, reported as a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses, declines in value judged to be
other than temporary, and interest income on all securities are included in
earnings. At October 28, 1995, the Company did not own any securities classified
as trading.

While it is the intent of management to hold securities to maturity, unforeseen
events, while not generally expected, could cause the Company to liquidate
certain securities prior to maturity. Accordingly, those securities which could
readily be sold back to the seller are classified as available-for-sale.
Securities, such as bank time deposits, which by their nature are typically
held-to- maturity are classified as such. The following is a summary of
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at October 28, 1995:





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


Securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity at October 28,
1995 have contractual maturities of six months or less at time of acquisition.
Because of the short term to maturity, and hence relative price insensitivity to
changes in market interest rates, amortized cost approximates fair value for all
of these securities. As such, no unrealized gains or losses were recorded at
year end. There were no proceeds, gross realized gains or gross realized losses
from sales of any securities during the year.

c. INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
were as follows:



A director of a raw material supplier was also a director of the Company through
January 1995. Total purchases from this supplier approximated $11,038,000
through January 1995, $28,435,000 in 1994 and $37,990,000 in 1993. Accounts
payable to this supplier at October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993 approximated
$1,090,000 and $3,639,000, respectively. Another director of the Company was
also a director of a raw material supplier through June 1993. Total purchases
from this supplier approximated $1,510,000 in 1993. The Company believes that
the terms of these purchases were comparable to those available from other
suppliers.

d. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The straight-line method of depreciation is used for all classes of assets for
financial statement purposes; both straight-line and accelerated methods are
used for income tax purposes. Capitalized leases and leasehold improvements are
amortized based upon the lesser of the term of the lease or the useful life of
the asset. Depreciation and amortization are based on the following useful
lives:



Total depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment was
$62,066,000, $59,240,000 and $57,732,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

e. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets at October 28, 1995 consist of goodwill, patents and other
intangibles. Goodwill is being amortized on a straight- line basis over a
fifteen-year period. Patents and other intangibles are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives which range from seven
to fifteen years. Amortization expense for all intangible assets was $2,032,000,
$2,044,000 and $2,081,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Accumulated
amortization for all intangible assets was $10,668,000, $8,636,000 and
$6,657,000 at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993,
respectively. On a periodic basis, the Company estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the businesses to which the intangible assets relate in order to
ensure that the carrying value of such intangible assets has not been impaired.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


f. GRANT ACCOUNTING

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received various
grants from the Industrial Development Authority of the Republic of Ireland.
These grants include capital, employment, and research and development grants.
Capital grants for the acquisition of property and equipment are netted against
the related capital expenditures and amortized as a credit to depreciation
expense over the useful life of the related asset. Employment grants, which
relate to employee hiring and training, and research and development grants are
recognized in earnings in the period in which the related expenditures are
incurred by the Company.

g. TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES

The functional currency for the Company's foreign sales operations is the
applicable local currency. Gains and losses resulting from translation of these
foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are accumulated in a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in income
currently, including those at the Company's principal foreign manufacturing
operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Net foreign
currency transaction gains or losses included in other expenses, net, were not
material in fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993.

h. FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS AND INTEREST RATE AGREEMENTS

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency
option contracts and currency swap agreements to offset certain operational and
balance sheet exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such
exposures result from the portion of the Company's operations, assets and
liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies. These foreign exchange contract,
option and swap transactions are entered into to support product sales,
purchases and financing transactions made in the normal course of business, and
accordingly, are not speculative in nature.

Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated
with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and purchase commitments
denominated in foreign currencies and certain non-U.S. dollar denominated asset
and liability positions. The Company's forward foreign exchange contracts are
primarily denominated in Japanese yen and certain European currencies and are
for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally
one year or less. The forward foreign exchange contracts that relate to firm,
foreign currency sales and purchase commitments are designated and effective as
hedges of firm, identifiable foreign currency commitments, and accordingly, the
gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate movements
on these contracts are not recognized in operations until the underlying hedged
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such gains and losses are
recorded in operations as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the underlying
transactions in the period in which these transactions are recognized.
Unrealized gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate
movements on forward foreign exchange contracts designated to offset certain
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recognized as other
income or expense in the period in which the exchange rates change and offset
the foreign currency gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged.
The contract amounts of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding were
$181.7 million, $136.4 million and $107.9 million at October 28, 1995, October
29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, respectively.



                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The Company also may periodically enter into foreign currency options contracts
to offset certain probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, foreign
currency transactions related to the sale of product during the ensuing nine
months. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign
currencies, the decline in value of future currency cash flows is partially
offset by the gains in value of the purchased currency options designated as
hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the increase in value of future
foreign currency cash flows is reduced only by the premium paid to acquire the
options. The Company's foreign currency option contracts are primarily
denominated in Japanese yen and generally have maturities which do not exceed
six months. These foreign currency option contracts are designated and effective
as hedges of anticipated foreign currency sales transactions, and accordingly,
the premium cost and any realized gains associated with these contracts are
deferred and included in the consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and
accrued liabilities, respectively, until such time as the underlying sales
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such premium costs and any
realized gains are recorded in sales as a component of the underlying sales
transactions being hedged. The contract amounts of foreign currency option
contracts outstanding were $26.9 million, $28.6 million and $29.0 million at
October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, respectively. Deferred
gains or losses attributable to foreign currency option contracts were not
material at October 28, 1995.


The Company uses currency swap agreements to hedge the value of its net
investment in certain of its foreign subsidiaries. Realized and unrealized gains
and losses on such agreements related to the net foreign investment being hedged
are recognized in the cumulative translation adjustment component of
stockholders' equity, with the related amounts due to or from counterparties
included in accrued liabilities or other current assets. The contract amount of
currency swap agreements outstanding, which were principally denominated in
Japanese yen, was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.
Currency swap agreements outstanding at October 28, 1995 have maturities of one
year and generally remain in effect until expiration.

The Company enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its
exposure to interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of its
debt and certain financing arrangements from fixed to variable rates. Maturity
dates of interest rate swap and cap agreements generally match those of the
underlying debt or financing arrangements. These agreements, which have
maturities of up to twelve years involve the exchange of fixed rate payments for
variable rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Variable rates are based on six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a
semiannual basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid
or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with the
agreements and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to
interest expense. The notional principal amounts of interest rate swap and cap
agreements outstanding were $50.3 million, $50.5 million and $40.0 million at
October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993.


The cash requirements of the above-described financial instruments approximate
their fair value. Cash flows associated with these financial instruments are
classified consistent with the cash flows from the transactions being hedged.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


Derivative financial instruments involve, to a varying degree, elements of
market and credit risk not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency
exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk
of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The
counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's foreign exchange and
interest rate instruments consist of a number of major high credit quality
international financial institutions. The Company does not believe that there is
significant risk of nonperformance by these counterparties because the Company
continually monitors the credit ratings of such counterparties, and limits the
financial exposure and the amount of agreements entered into with any one
financial institution. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative
financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions,
they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit risk. The
amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability
of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to
the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the 
contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.

i. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with
high credit quality financial institutions and monitors the amount of credit
exposure to any one financial institution.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
manufacturers involved in a variety of industries including industrial
automation, instrumentation, military/aerospace, and to an increasing degree,
communications, computers and peripherals, and high-performance consumer
electronics. The Company has adopted credit policies and standards to
accommodate growth into these markets. The Company believes that any risk of
accounting loss with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the
diversity of its products, end customers and geographic sales areas. The Company
performs continuing credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and
although the Company generally does not require collateral, letters of credit
may be required from its customers in certain circumstances. Due to the
Company's credit evaluation and collection process, bad debt losses have been
insignificant.




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


j. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following estimated fair value amounts have been determined by the Company
using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to
develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein
are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in
a current market exchange.



The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating its
fair value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments -The carrying amounts of these
items are a reasonable estimate of their fair value due to the short term to
maturity and readily available market for these types of investments.

Short-term borrowings-The carrying amounts of these variable-rate borrowings
approximate fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.

Long-term debt-The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on current
interest rates available to the Company for debt instruments with similar terms,
degree of risk and remaining maturities.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements-The fair value of interest rate swap and
cap agreements are obtained from dealer quotes. These values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements
taking into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange contacts-The estimated fair value of forward
foreign currency exchange contracts is based on the estimated amount at which
they could be settled based on market exchange rates.

Foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements-The fair values 
of foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements are obtained 
from dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated net amount the Company
would receive or pay to terminate the agreements.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


k. REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenue from product sales to end users is recognized upon shipment. A portion
of the Company's sales are made to domestic distributors under agreements
allowing for price protection and certain rights of return on merchandise unsold
by the distributors. Because of the uncertainty associated with pricing
concessions and future returns, the Company defers recognition of such sales and
related gross margin until the merchandise is sold by the distributors. For
sales to international distributors, the Company recognizes the sale upon
shipment to the distributor, but provides specific reserves for possible returns
and allowances.

l. INCOME TAXES

In February 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (FAS 109).
FAS 109 requires a change from the deferred method of accounting for income
taxes under APB Opinion 11 to the asset and liability method of accounting for
income taxes. Under the asset and liability method of FAS 109, deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. Under FAS 109, the effect of a change in tax rates on
deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. Deferred tax asset valuation allowances are
recorded to offset deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some
or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company established a
valuation allowance, primarily for financial and tax capital losses, based on
the assessment that realization of such character of income is not assured.

Effective October 31, 1993 the Company adopted FAS 109. The adoption of FAS 109
was not material to the consolidated financial statements. As permitted by FAS
109, prior years' financial statements have not been restated.

Pursuant to the deferred method under APB Opinion 11, which was applied at
October 30, 1993 and in prior fiscal years, deferred income taxes are recognized
for income and expense items that are reported in different years for financial
reporting purposes and income tax purposes using the tax rate applicable for the
year of calculation. Under the deferred method, deferred taxes are not adjusted
for subsequent changes in tax rates.

m. STOCK SPLIT

On November 28, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995. The
split was accomplished through the issuance of common stock. All references to
share and per share amounts in this report have been restated to reflect the
split.

n. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK

Primary earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for incremental
shares assumed issued for dilutive common stock equivalents. Fully diluted
earnings per share do not differ materially from primary earnings per share.

o. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company is in the process of determining the effect of adoption
of these statements on its consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


2. INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION

INDUSTRY

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high- performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The Company operates in three major geographic areas. Information on the
Company's geographic operations is set forth in the table below. The
predominant countries comprising European operations are England, France,
Germany and Ireland. The predominant country comprising Asian operations is
Japan. For segment reporting purposes, sales generated by North American
operations in the table include export sales of $97,446,000, $96,700,000 and
$71,542,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Transfers between geographic
areas are based on market comparables and are consistent with prevailing
tax regulations. Operating income reflects the allocation of corporate expenses
of $23,190,000, $19,718,000 and $17,174,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively, to the appropriate geographic area based upon their beneficial
and causal relationship to each area. Corporate identifiable assets consist of
cash equivalents, short-term investments and intangible assets.





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


3. ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
consisted of the following:




4. DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES

6 5/8% NOTES

On March 11, 1993, the Company completed a public offering of $80 million of
seven-year 6 5/8% Notes due March 1, 2000 with semiannual interest payments on
March 1 and September 1. The net proceeds of the offering were approximately $79
million after payment of the underwriting discounts and expenses of the offering
which were deferred and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of
the Notes. Simultaneous with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap and cap agreement for the term of the Notes having a notional
principal amount of $40 million whereby the effective net interest rate on $40
million of the Notes will be the six-month LIBOR rate (up to a maximum of 7%)
plus 1.4%. For the year ended October 28, 1995, the net effective interest rate
on $40 million of the Notes was 7.8% after giving effect to the interest rate
swap agreement.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LINES OF CREDIT

The Company has a revolving credit agreement with several banks which commits
them to lend up to $60,000,000. The terms of the credit agreement provide that
interest on U.S. dollar borrowings may not exceed the greater of the prime rate
or the federal funds rate plus .50%. Under this agreement, the Company also has
the option to borrow both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies at interest rates
tied to various money market instruments, customarily below the prime rate.
Under the credit agreement, the Company is currently required to pay fees of .05
of 1% per annum on the unused portion of the lending commitment and .15 of 1%
per annum on the total amount of the committed facility. All borrowings under
the credit agreement are due no later than September 8, 1998. Borrowing from
banks not participating in the agreement is permitted as long as the Company
maintains certain required financial ratios. The credit agreement requires the
Company to maintain stated minimum net worth and current ratio levels, plus a
stated maximum ratio of total liabilities to net worth. In addition, the credit
agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash dividend payments declared or made
subsequent to January 30, 1993 to an amount not exceeding $29,734,000 plus 50%
of the consolidated net income of the Company for the period from January 31,
1993 through the end of the Company's then most recent fiscal quarter. At
October 28, 1995 this amount was equal to $144,782,000. At October 28, 1995, the
Company was in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. There
are no compensating balance requirements under the credit agreement. In addition
to the credit agreement, the Company also has various unsecured, uncommitted
money market lines of credit with its credit agreement and other banks which
provide for short-term borrowings.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The weighted average interest rate of U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit
agreement and the uncommitted money market lines of credit was 4.0% during 1993.
There were no variable rate U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit agreement or
the uncommitted money market lines of credit during 1995 and 1994 nor were there
any such borrowings outstanding at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 or October
30, 1993. The weighted average interest rates of foreign currency borrowings
under foreign lines of credit were 7.2%, 8.7% and 10.9% during 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. The weighted average interest rates of foreign currency
borrowings were 6.2%, 7.4% and 11.8% at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and
October 30, 1993, respectively. There were $2.3 million of foreign currency
borrowings outstanding at October 28, 1995, which were at prevailing money
market rates for the respective currencies. Borrowings under the Company's
credit agreement and lines of credit are generally due within six months.


Long-term debt, including current maturities, at October 28, 1995, October 29,
1994 and October 30, 1993 consisted of the following:



On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000 of
five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1996. The Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into the
Company's common stock at any time after 60 days following the date of original
issuance, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $27.913 per
share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The net proceeds of the offering
were approximately $224 million after payment of the underwriting discount and
expenses of the offering which will be amortized over the term of the Notes. As
of December 31, 1995, the Company's total long-term debt was $310,000,000
comprised of the $230,000,000 of 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes and
$80,000,000 of 6 5/8% Notes.


Aggregate principal payments on long-term debt and short-term borrowings for the
following fiscal years, after consideration of the $230.0 million of 3-1/2%
Convertible Subordinated Notes, are: 1996-$2.3 million; 2000-$80.0 million; and
2001-$230.0 million.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


5. LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under various
operating and capital leases which expire at various dates through 2010. The
lease agreements frequently include renewal and purchase provisions and require
the Company to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.

Total rental expense under operating leases was $11,243,000, $9,985,000 and
$8,853,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under capital
leases and rental payments required under long-term operating leases at October
28, 1995:




Net property, plant and equipment includes the following for capital leases:




6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents is also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. If it
is determined that the Company has violated the cease and desist order, the ITC
could seek to impose penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the
date of the cease and desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the
value of the goods determined to be sold in violation of the order. In
addition, in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in
Massachusetts alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of
the Company's patents.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both Texas lawsuits and the
Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a royalty-free cross license of
certain of the Company's and TI's patents. On April 25, 1995, the Company filed
with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC enforcement proceeding on the
grounds that further action by the ITC is unnecessary in light of the Company's
settlement with TI. On May 8 1995, an Administrative Law Judge issued a
recommended determination to the ITC to grant the Company's motion to terminate
the ITC proceeding. The investigative office of the ITC has opposed the motion,
claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's settlement with TI, the Company's
alleged violation of the ITC's cease and desist order warrants the imposition
of substantial penalties. The Company's motion is pending before the ITC.

The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc. ("Maxim") in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California seeking an injunction against, and claiming damages for, alleged
antitrust violations and unfair competition in connection with distribution
arrangements between the Company and certain distributors. Maxim alleged that
certain distributors ceased doing business with Maxim as a result of the
distribution arrangements between the distributors and the Company, resulting in
improper restrictions to Maxim's access to channels by which it distributes its
products. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount of $14.1
million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified amount.
Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any actual
damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. On September 7, 1994,
Maxim's claim was dismissed for lack of evidence. Maxim has appealed this ruling
and oral argument of the appeal was held in January 1996.

Although the Company believes it should prevail in the matters described in the
previous three paragraphs, the Company is unable to determine their ultimate
outcome or estimate the ultimate amount of liability, if any, at this time. An
adverse resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which the matters are resolved.


In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, personal injury, environmental matters and product liability. Such
litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against the Company by
Sextant Avionique, S.A. ("Sextant") in Paris, France, which claims that the
Company's accelerometer infringes certain Sextant patents and seeks to enjoin
such infringement. While there can be no assurance that the Company will        
prevail in all of these matters, the Company does not believe that these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of operations. However, an adverse
resolution could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results
of operations in the quarter in which these matters are resolved.

IRISH GRANTS

During fiscal 1995, the Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland
entered into a grant agreement with Ireland's Industrial Development Authority
("IDA") under which the Company will receive grant monies of up to 10.1 million
Irish Pounds (approximately $16.4 million at October 28, 1995) for capital and
start-up costs associated with the wafer fabrication expansion at this
facility. As of October 28, 1995, the Company had not received any grant monies
under this agreement. The Company's Irish facility has previously received
operating and capital grants from the IDA; a liability to repay up to $13.1
million of the grants received by the Company would arise in the unlikely event
the Company should discontinue its Irish operations prior to the commitment
periods noted in the grant agreements which expire at various dates through
1999.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


WAFER SUPPLY AGREEMENTS

In May 1995, the Company entered into a wafer supply agreement with its primary
foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ("TSMC"). The terms of
this agreement provide for a series of advance payments to TSMC aggregating
$22.4 million, payable over a three-year period, to be used by TSMC in the
expansion of their wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan. In return, the Company
will be provided access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the period
from 1996 to 1999. The first payment to TSMC was made in June 1995. The
remaining payments under the agreement are due in June 1996, June 1997 and June
1998. The advance payments will be repaid to the Company each year in the form
of credits against the prices of wafers purchased by the Company when such
wafer purchases exceed a defined minimum.

In March 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with an external wafer
foundry, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM"), which
provides for an equity investment of approximately $20.0 million to be applied
primarily towards the construction of a new CSM eight-inch, 0.5 micron wafer
fabrication facility in Singapore. In consideration for its investment, the
Company receives a minority equity position of less than 5% in CSM and will
receive guaranteed foundry capacity and pricing commitments for sub-micron
wafers manufactured at CSM's new facility beginning in 1996. The Company
invested $14.0 million in fiscal 1995 in connection with this agreement. The
Company's investment in CSM is included in the balance sheet caption, "Deferred
Charges and Other Assets."

OTHER

Under the terms of the lease agreement related to the Company's headquarters
facility in Norwood, Massachusetts, the Company has agreed to assume the note
related to the property in the case of default by the lessor. Assumption of the
note, which was $10.3 million at October 28, 1995, would entitle the Company to
a first lien on the property. In addition, the Company may be subject to an
incremental rent payment if the Company were to either default on the lease or
not exercise its option to extend the lease at the end of the current
fifteen-year term. This payment would be the present value of the balance of
the lessor's debt related to the property in excess of $6.5 million at the end
of the current lease term. As of October 28, 1995, the Company's unrecorded
financial risk of loss under this agreement was $2.0 million in the unlikely
event of default.

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

In March 1995, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Articles
of Organization to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock
from 150,000,000 to 300,000,000. In December 1995, the Board of Directors
authorized an amendment to the Company's Articles of Organization to increase
the authorized number of shares of common stock from 300,000,000 to 450,000,000
subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.

STOCK PLANS

The 1988 Stock Option Plan provides for the issuance of nonstatutory and
incentive stock options to purchase up to 15,525,000 shares of common stock.
Under this plan, options may be granted to key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries at a price not less than 100% of the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant. The Company's 1980 Stock Option Plan was
terminated upon adoption of the 1988 Stock Option Plan; however, options to
purchase common stock remain outstanding under this plan. In December 1995, the
Board of Directors authorized an increase in the number of shares of common
stock available for issuance under the 1988 Stock Option Plan from 15,525,000
to 22,425,000 subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.

While the Company may grant options to employees which become exercisable at
different times or within different periods, the Company has generally granted
options to employees which are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual
installments of 33 1/3% each on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of
the date of grant.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Under the 1994 Director Stock Option Plan, each nonemployee director is granted
annually for four years a nonstatutory option to purchase 7,875 shares of
common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. A total of 300,000 shares of common stock may be issued under this plan.
These options are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of
33 1/3% each on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.
The Company also has options outstanding under the 1992 Director Option Plan
and the 1989 Director Stock Option Plan. Options granted under these plans are
exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33 1/3% each on the
third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.


Transactions under the Company's stock option plans are summarized in the table
below:



(1) Options canceled which were originally issued from the 1988 Stock Option
    Plan are available for subsequent grants. The remaining options canceled in
    1995, 1994 and 1993 were issued from the 1980 Stock Option and 1992 Director
    Option Plans under which no further options will be granted.

The Company has a stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to
purchase, through payroll deductions, shares of the Company's common stock at
85% of the fair market value at specified dates. Employees purchased 626,800
shares in 1995 (785,700 and 1,131,800 in 1994 and 1993, respectively) for $6.9
million ($6.0 million and $4.2 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively). At
October 28, 1995, 1,505,700 common shares remained available for issuance under
the stock purchase plan.




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan, a maximum of 1,575,000 shares of common
stock may be awarded by the Company to key employees for nominal consideration.
This plan succeeded the Company's 1978 Restricted Stock Plan which provided for
the issuance of up to 5,529,600 shares of common stock. Shares awarded from both
plans are restricted as to transfer, usually for a period of five years and,
under certain conditions, may be subject to repurchase by the Company at the
original purchase price per share. Shares awarded under the Company's restricted
stock plans, net of cancellations, for 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 15,000, 353,250
and 31,500, respectively. The fair market value of the shares at the date of
award was accounted for as deferred compensation and is being amortized over the
restricted period. During 1995, 1994 and 1993, $1,672,000, $1,851,000 and
$1,716,000, respectively, of such compensation was charged to expense. At
October 28, 1995, there were 444,000 shares of common stock available for
issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan. In December 1995, the Board of
Directors authorized an increase in the number of shares of common stock
available for issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan from 1,575,000 to
2,025,000 subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.



WARRANTS

In 1990, the Company issued warrants for the purchase of 2,250,000 shares of
common stock. Each warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of the
Company's common stock at an exercise price of $5.33 per share, subject to
certain adjustments, anytime prior to the expiration of the warrants on August
7, 1997. At October 28, 1995, all of the warrants were outstanding.


As of October 28, 1995, a total of 18,603,000 common shares were reserved for
issuance under the Company's stock plans and warrant agreement.


PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1.00 par value Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is authorized to fix designations, relative rights,
preferences and limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance. The
Company had previously authorized 35,000 shares of such Preferred Stock as
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, of which 28,066 shares were sold in prior
years. As of June 14, 1990, all of these shares had been fully converted to
common stock.

COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

In 1988, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan which was
amended in 1989. Pursuant to the Stockholder Rights Plan, each share of common
stock has an associated right. Under certain circumstances, each right entitles
the holder to purchase from the Company one share of common stock at an
exercise price of $26.67 per share, subject to adjustment.

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be transferred separately from the
common stock until ten days after a person acquires 20% or more or makes a
tender offer for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. If, after the
rights become exercisable, (i) any person becomes the owner of 20% or more of
the Company's common stock, or (ii) the Company is the surviving entity in a
merger with a 20% or more stockholder, or (iii) a 20% or more stockholder
engages in certain "self-dealing" transactions with the Company, each right not
owned by such person will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right's
exercise price, common stock having a value of two times the exercise price of
the right. In addition, if the Company is either (i) acquired in a merger or
other business combination in which the Company is not the surviving entity, or
(ii) sells or transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another
party, each right will entitle its holder to purchase, upon exercise, common
stock of the acquiring Company having a value equal to two times the exercise
price of the right.



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in that they would cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a
significant interest in the Company on terms not approved by the Board of
Directors. The rights expire on February 12, 1998 but may be redeemed by the
Company for $.0089 per right at any time prior to the tenth day following a
person's acquisition of 20% or more of the Company's common stock. So long as
the rights are not separately transferable, the Company will issue one right
with each new share of common stock issued.

8.  RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company and its subsidiaries have various savings and retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. The Company maintains a defined
contribution plan for the benefit of its eligible United States employees.
This plan provides for Company contributions of up to 5% of each participant's
total eligible compensation. In addition, the Company contributes an amount
equal to each participant's contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 2% of each
participant's total eligible compensation. The Company also has various defined
benefit pension and other retirement plans for certain foreign employees that
are consistent with local statutes and practices. The total expense related to
all of the Company's retirement plans in 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $14.0 million,
$12.6 million and $11.9 million, respectively, which primarily consists of
costs related to the domestic defined contribution plan. Also included in total
expense is pension expense related to foreign defined benefit plans of $2.5
million for 1995, $2.5 million for 1994 and $3.0 million for 1993. Summary data
related to these foreign plans at October 28, 1995 is as follows: accumulated
benefit obligation, substantially vested, of $22.2 million; projected benefit
obligation of $35.2 million; plan assets at fair value of $32.4 million;
discount rates ranging from 4% to 15%; compensation increase rates ranging from
3% to 12% and expected rate of return on assets ranging from 5% to 15%.

In fiscal 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" (FAS 112). FAS 112
requires that postemployment benefits, primarily salary continuation and
insurance continuation, be accrued for at the time the benefit is earned by the
employee. Adoption of FAS 112 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

9.  INCOME TAXES

As discussed in Note 1(l), the Company adopted FAS 109 as of October 31, 1993.

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rates
to income tax expense is as follows:





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes includes the
following components:




The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:



The Company's practice is to reinvest indefinitely the earnings of certain
international subsidiaries. Accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been
provided for approximately $277,308,000 of unremitted earnings of international
subsidiaries.

For the Company's fiscal years ended October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
deferred income taxes reflect the tax effects of differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income
tax purposes. A deferred tax asset must be recognized for the tax benefit of
deductible temporary differences, net operating losses, net capital losses and
tax credit carryovers. A valuation allowance is recognized if it is "more
likely than not" that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. The Company maintains a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
which was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994. The
Company believes that the realization of deferred tax assets was not assured
for book and tax capital losses and book basis foreign tax credits. For tax
purposes, the Company has a capital loss carryforward of approximately
$6,453,000 expiring through the year 2000, principally in 1997.




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the fiscal years ended October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994 are as
follows:




The components of the provision for deferred income taxes for the fiscal year
ended October 30, 1993 are as follows:





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


Quarterly financial information for fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994 (thousands of
dollars except as noted):





ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption "EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY" in Part I hereof, and the remainder is contained in
the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on March 12, 1996 (the "1996 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation," "Executive Compensation,"
"Severance and Other Agreements," "Approval of Amendment to 1988 Stock Option
Plan" and "Approval of Amendment to 1991 Restricted Stock Plan," and is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Transactions with Directors," and is incorporated herein by
reference.




                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The following consolidated financial statements are included in Item 8:

         -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended October 28,
              1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 28, 1995, October 29,
              1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
              October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October
              28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and   October 30, 1993

(a) 2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     The following consolidated financial statement schedules are included in
     Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
     not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
     the schedule, or because the information required is included in the
     consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

(a) 3.     LISTING OF EXHIBITS

















*      Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements required to
       be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**     Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these
       Exhibits.

(b)    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    The Company filed no reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission during the fiscal quarter ended October 28, 1995.






                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
 (Registrant)

By:  /s/  Ray Stata                         By:  /s/  Joseph E. McDonough
     -----------------------------               -------------------------------
     Ray Stata                                   Joseph E. McDonough
     Chairman of the Board and                   Vice President-Finance
     Chief Executive Officer                     and Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Executive Officer)               (Principal Financial and
                                                 Accounting Officer)


Date: January 25, 1996                      Date: January 25, 1996
      ----------------------------                ------------------------------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.









                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995

                                   ITEM 14(D)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

      YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995, OCTOBER 29, 1994 AND OCTOBER 30, 1993
                                  (THOUSANDS)






