ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Overview of
Business



The Company is
a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer and institutional products with
approximately 8,300 employees worldwide and fiscal year 2010 net sales of $5.5
billion. The Company sells its products primarily through mass merchandisers,
grocery stores and other retail outlets. It markets some of consumers’ most
trusted and recognized brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning
products, Green Works®natural cleaning and laundry
products, Poett®and Mistolín®cleaning products, Armor All®and STP®auto-care products, Fresh Step®and Scoop Away®cat litter, Kingsford®charcoal, Hidden Valley®and K C Masterpiece®dressings and sauces, Brita®water-filtration systems, Glad®bags, wraps and containers, and
Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products. The
Company’s products are manufactured in more than two dozen countries and sold in
more than 100 countries. The Company was founded in Oakland, Calif., in 1913 and
is incorporated in Delaware.



The Company
has developed a strategy focused on creating value by investing in new and
existing sales channels, countries with profitable growth potential and
categories, particularly those categories aligned with global consumer trends in
the areas of health and wellness, sustainability and affordability, and
appealing to a multicultural marketplace. The Company uses economic profit to
drive enhanced performance, portfolio choices and resource allocation. Economic
profit represents profit generated over and above the cost of capital used by
the business to generate that profit. For information on recent business
developments, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Executive
Overview - Fiscal Year 2010 Summary” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” onpage 3of
Exhibit 99.1 hereto, incorporated herein by reference.



Financial Information About
Operating Segments and Principal Products



The Company
operates through strategic business units that are aggregated into four
reportable segments: Cleaning, Lifestyle, Household and International. The four
reportable segments consist of the following:

Cleaning consists of
  laundry, home-care, professional products and auto-care products marketed and
  sold in the United States. Products within this segment include laundry
  additives, including bleaches under the Clorox®brand and Clorox 2®stain fighter and color booster;
  home-care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol®, S.O.S®and Tilex®brands; natural cleaning and
  laundry products under the Green Works®brand; and auto-care products
  primarily under the Armor All®and STP®brands.

Household consists of
  charcoal, cat litter and plastic bags, wraps and container products marketed
  and sold in the United States. Products within this segment include plastic
  bags, wraps and containers, under the Glad®brand; cat litter products, under
  the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away®and Ever Clean®brands; and charcoal products
  under the Kingsford®and Match Light®brands.

Lifestyle consists of
  food products, water-filtration systems and filters marketed and sold in the
  United States and all natural personal care products. Products within this
  segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley®and K C
  Masterpiece®brands; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita®brand; and all
  natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees®brand.

International consists
  of products sold outside the United States, excluding natural personal care
  products. These products include home-care, laundry, auto-care, water
  filtration, charcoal and cat litter products, dressings and sauces, plastic
  bags, wraps and containers, and insecticides, primarily under the Clorox®, Javex®, Glad®, PinoLuz®, Ayudin®, Limpido®, Clorinda®, Poett®, Mistolin®, Lestoil®, Bon Bril®, Nevex®, Brita®, Armor All®, STP®, Green Works®, Sabra®, Pine-Sol®, Agua Jane®, Ever Clean®, Chux®,Kingsford®andHidden Valley®brands.










The Company isexploring strategicoptions to
optimize value of its auto-care products business. Those options could include a
sale of thatbusinessor could involve
retaining the business in its current configuration,although no decisions have
been madeat this
time.



The Company
has three product lines that have accounted for 10% or more of total
consolidated net sales during each of the past three fiscal years. In fiscal
years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, sales of liquid bleach represented
approximately 13%, 13% and 14% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales,
25% of net sales in the Cleaning segment for each of the three fiscal years and
21%, 25% and 23% of net sales in the International segment. In fiscal years
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, sales of trash bags represented approximately
11%, 12% and 13% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales, approximately
31%, 33% and 34% of net sales in the Household segment and approximately 10%,
10% and 11% of net sales in the International segment. Sales of charcoal
represented approximately 11% in fiscal year 2010 and approximately 10% in
fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, of the Company’s total consolidated
net sales and approximately 36%, 32% and 30% of net sales in the Household
segment, respectively.



Information
for the last three fiscal years about the results of each of the Company’s
reportable segments and identifiable assets as of the end of the last two fiscal
years, reconciled to the consolidated results, are set forth below.



FiscalTotal(Millions)YearCleaningHouseholdLifestyleInternationalCorporate(1)CompanyNet sales2010$1,838$1,663$864$1,169$-$5,53420091,8361,7268131,075-5,45020081,8171,6986761,082-5,273Earnings (losses)
    beforeincome taxes2010440290303172(280)9252009410289270140(298)8112008360225205177(274)693Identifiable assets20101,2117881,3789072714,55520091,0437241,3168955984,576



(1)Corporate includes certain nonallocated administrative costs,
      interest income, interest expense and certain other nonoperating income
      and expenses. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, the
      Company’s headquarters and research and development facilities,
      information systems hardware and software, pension balances, and other
      investments.



Principal Markets and Methods of
Distribution



Most of the
Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold within the United States
to mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, and dollar, military and other types of
retail stores primarily through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and
grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a
network of brokers. Within the United States, the Company also sells
institutional, janitorial, healthcare and food-service versions of many of its
products through distributors, as well as natural personal care products through
the internet. Outside the United States, the Company sells products to the
retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture
arrangements with local partners.



Financial Information about Foreign
and Domestic Operations



For detailed
financial information about the Company’s foreign and domestic operations,
including net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 21 –Segment Reportingof the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements beginning onpage 65of
Exhibit 99.1 hereto.












Sources and Availability of Raw
Materials



The Company
purchases raw material from numerous unaffiliated domestic and international
suppliers, some of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers.
Interruptions in the delivery of these materials or services could adversely
impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company include resin, jet
fuel, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite, corrugate, agricultural commodities and
other raw materials. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year
2010 and costs for materials continue to be volatile. During the first half of
fiscal year 2010, the Company experienced moderate decline in commodity costs,
and during the second half of fiscal year 2010, the Company experienced moderate
commodity cost increases. The Company generally utilizes supply and
forward-purchase contracts to help ensure availability and help manage the
volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However,
the Company is nonetheless highly exposed over the short term to changes in the
price of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its products.
For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on

page 20

of Exhibit 99.1 hereto and “Risk Factors – Price increases in raw
materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could
harm the Company’s profits” in Item 1.A.



Patents and
Trademarks



Most of the
Company’s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks.
Its brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the
Company pursues a course of vigorous action against apparent infringements.
Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The
Company’s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted,
where appropriate, against apparent infringements.



Seasonality



Most sales of
the Company’s charcoal products occur in the first six months of each calendar
year. A moderate seasonality trend also occurs in the net sales of the Company’s
Burt’s Bees®natural personal care products,
with slightly more than half of the annual net sales occurring during the months
of October through March. Operating cash flow is used to build inventories of
those products in the off-season.



Customers and Order
Backlog



Net sales to
the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were
27% for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and 26% for fiscal year 2008, of the
Company’s total consolidated net sales. Order backlog is not a significant
factor in the Company’s business.



Competition



The markets
for consumer products are highly competitive. Most of the Company’s products
compete with other nationally advertised brands within each category and with
“private label” brands and “generic” nonbranded products in certain categories.
Competition is encountered from similar and alternative products, some of which
are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having
financial resources greater than those of the Company. Depending on the product,
the Company’s products compete on product performance, brand recognition, price,
value or other benefits to consumers. A newly introduced consumer product
(whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition
requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally
requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product
improvement to maintain its relative market position.












Research and
Development



The Company
conducts research and development primarily at its Technical Center in
Pleasanton, Calif. and also conducts research and development activities in
Kennesaw, Ga.; Cincinnati, Oh.; Willowbrook, Il.; Midland, Mi.; Durham, NC; and
Buenos Aires, Argentina. The Company devotes significant resources and attention
to product development, process technology and consumer insight research to
develop consumer-preferred products with innovative and distinctive features.
The Company incurred expenses of $119 million, $114 million, and $111 million in
fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, on direct research activities
relating to the development of new products and/or the maintenance and
improvement of existing products. In addition, the Company also obtains
technologies for use in its products from third parties. Royalties relating to
such technologies are reflected in the Company’s cost of sales. For further
information regarding the Company’s research and development costs, see
“Research and development costs” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” onpage 7of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Environmental
Matters



For
information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters,
see the discussions below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create
potential liability risks” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures
relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated.



Number of Persons
Employed



At June 30,
2010, the Company employed approximately 8,300 people.



Available
Information



The Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s
Internet Web site, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are
available at www.thecloroxcompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC
Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the
Company’s Code of Conduct, Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board
Committee charters, including charters for the Management Development and
Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the
Nominating and Governance Committee, is available at www.thecloroxcompany.com
under Company Information/Corporate Governance. The Company will provide any of
the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate
Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The
information contained on the Company’s Internet Web site is not included as a
part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.












