
10-K
10-K




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

        X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

                                       OR

       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             For the transition period from____________to___________
                          Commission file number 0-3021

                          THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

           Minnesota                               41-0518860
         ------------                             ------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)

      385 Washington Street, Saint Paul, MN               55102
     --------------------------------------               -----
    (Address of principal executive offices)            (Zip Code)

  Registrant's telephone number,
       including area code                          651-310-7911
                                                    ------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Common Stock (without par value)               New York Stock Exchange
                                                  London Stock Exchange
        Stock Purchase Rights                    New York Stock Exchange
        ---------------------                    -----------------------
          (Title of class)         (Name of each exchange on which registered)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None.

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                                                     Yes   X  No____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ( )

The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common Stock held by nonaffiliates
of the Registrant on March 11, 1999, was $7,435,808,686. The number of shares of
the Registrant's Common Stock, without par value, outstanding at March 11, 1999,
was 228,924,899.

An Exhibit Index is set forth at page 38 of this report.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                       -----------------------------------

Portions of the Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this report. Portions of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 4, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Parts III and IV of this
report.




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (The St. Paul) is incorporated as a general
business corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota.  The St. Paul and
its subsidiaries constitute one of the oldest insurance organizations in the
United States, dating back to 1853.  The St. Paul is a management company
principally engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing property-liability
and life insurance, and reinsurance products and services worldwide.  The St.
Paul also has a presence in the asset management industry through its majority
ownership of The John Nuveen Company (Nuveen).  As a management company, The St.
Paul oversees the operations of its subsidiaries and provides them with capital,
management and administrative services.  At March 1, 1999, The St. Paul and its
subsidiaries employed approximately 14,000 persons.

USF&G MERGER

On April 24, 1998, The St. Paul completed its merger with USF&G Corporation
(USF&G), a Baltimore, Maryland-based holding company for property-liability and
life insurance and reinsurance operations. The St. Paul issued 66.5 million of
its common shares in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of USF&G
in a business combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. Accordingly,
the consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the combination
were restated to include the accounts and results of operations of USF&G. The
merged organization operates under The St. Paul name with headquarters in St.
Paul, Minnesota. The merger was valued at approximately $3.7 billion, which
included the assumption of USF&G's debt and capital security obligations.

The St. Paul recorded a pretax merger-related charge to earnings of $292 million
in 1998, primarily for severance and facilities exit costs. The integration of
the two companies is expected to result in annualized pretax expense savings of
approximately $200 million, as measured against the combined 1997 pre-merger
expenses of The St. Paul and USF&G. The expense savings are expected to result
primarily from the reduction in employee salaries and benefits after the
elimination of redundant employee positions from the merged organization. Note 2
to the consolidated financial statements included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which includes additional information regarding the
merger, including the components of and cash payments relating to the
merger-related charges, is incorporated herein by reference.

The St. Paul also recorded a $250 million pretax provision to increase USF&G's
loss and loss adjustment expense reserves subsequent to the merger. Note 7 to
the consolidated financial statements included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which includes additional information about the $250
million provision, is incorporated herein by reference.

Before the merger, The St. Paul was ranked as the 263rd-largest U.S.-based
corporation in "Fortune" magazine's rankings of total 1997 revenues. On a pro
forma revenue basis, the combined operations of The St. Paul and USF&G would
have ranked No. 160 on the 1997 Fortune list.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The St. Paul's property-liability insurance operations, composed of five 
distinct underwriting business segments and an investment operations segment, 
accounted for at least 92% of consolidated revenues from continuing 
operations in each of the years 1998, 1997 and 1996. The St. Paul's life 
insurance segment, Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance Company and 
subsidiaries (F&G Life), accounted for 4% of revenues in each of those years, 
and Nuveen accounted for virtually all of the remaining revenues in each 
year. Financial information about The St. Paul's business segments is set 
forth in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in The St. 
Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by 
reference.





The following table summarizes the sources of The St. Paul's consolidated
revenues from continuing operations for each of the last three years. Following
the table is a narrative description of each of The St. Paul's business
segments.



NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INSURANCE

The St. Paul's property-liability insurance underwriting operations consist of
three U.S.-based primary underwriting segments collectively referred to as U.S.
UNDERWRITING, an international underwriting segment (INTERNATIONAL) and a
reinsurance segment (ST. PAUL RE).  The St. Paul's U.S. Underwriting operations
underwrite property and liability insurance and provide insurance-related
products and services to commercial, professional and individual customers
throughout the United States.  International underwrites primary property and
liability insurance coverages outside the United States.  International also
includes insurance written for foreign exposures of U.S.-based corporations and
U.S. exposures of foreign-based companies and The St. Paul's operations at
Lloyd's of London.  St. Paul Re underwrites reinsurance for leading property-
liability insurance companies worldwide.  The St. Paul's property-liability
operations also include an investment segment responsible for overseeing the
property-liability investment portfolio.

The primary sources of property-liability revenues are premiums earned from
insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, income earned from the investment
portfolio and gains from sales of investments. According to the most recent
industry statistics published in "Best's Review" with respect to
property-liability insurers doing business in the United States, as a result
from the merger, The St. Paul's underwriting operations would rank 8th on the
basis of 1997 written premiums.

PRINCIPAL DEPARTMENTS AND PRODUCTS. The "Property-Liability Underwriting Results
by Segment" table included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in The St.
Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, which summarizes written premiums,
underwriting results and statutory combined ratios for each of its underwriting
segments for the last three years, is incorporated herein by reference. The
following discussion summarizes the business structure of The St. Paul's
property-liability insurance underwriting operations.







U.S. UNDERWRITING

U.S. Underwriting operates through the following business segments:

COMMERCIAL LINES. The Commercial Lines segment includes the SMALL COMMERCIAL and
MIDDLE MARKET COMMERCIAL business centers, which offer general liability,
umbrella and excess liability, commercial auto and fire, inland marine, workers'
compensation and package coverages to a broad range of small to midsized
commercial enterprises. Tailored coverages and products are marketed to specific
customer groups such as golf courses, museums, colleges and schools,
multipurpose recreational facilities, manufacturers, wholesalers and processors.
Coverages marketed specifically to small commercial customers include the
Package Accounts for Commercial Enterprises (PACE) policy and the Business
Insurance Policy (BIP) for individuals, groups or franchise operations,
including retailers, offices and family restaurants.

The Commercial Lines segment includes the SURETY business center, which
underwrites surety bonds, primarily for construction contractors, which
guarantee that third parties will be indemnified against the nonperformance of
contractual obligations. Based on 1997 written premiums of $319 million, the
Surety underwriting operations of The St. Paul ranked as the largest underwriter
of surety bonds in the United States.

The Commercial Lines segment also includes several business centers that provide
specialized products and services for targeted industry groups. CONSTRUCTION
provides insurance to a broad range of general contractors, highway contractors
and specialty contractors. MANUFACTURING provides liability insurance and risk
management products and services for large manufacturing operations. SERVICE
INDUSTRIES provides large service-related businesses with insurance and risk
management programs. Businesses served include retailers, wholesalers, insurance
companies, and hospitality and entertainment firms. SPECIAL PROPERTY underwrites
large property accounts, layered and excess property programs, large deductible
accounts, stop-loss and loss limit programs and other customized property
business. NATIONAL PROGRAMS underwrites coverages for nationwide,
multiple-policyholder programs through a single agency source. TRANSPORTATION
provides large motor carriers with customized insurance programs. The
CATASTROPHE RISK business center provides personal property coverages, such as
monoline earthquake coverage in California, through GeoVera Insurance Company,
and homeowners coverage in selected coastal states through USF&G Specialty
Insurance Company.

The St. Paul's participation in insurance pools and associations, which provide
specialized underwriting skills and risk management services for the classes of
business that they write, is also included in Commercial Lines results. These
pools and associations serve to increase the underwriting capacity of
participating companies for insurance policies where the concentration of risk
is so high or the amount so large that a single company could not prudently
accept the entire risk. The St. Paul's participation in these pools and
associations is limited.

SPECIALTY COMMERCIAL. The Specialty Commercial segment includes the MEDICAL
SERVICES, CUSTOM MARKETS and PROFESSIONAL MARKETS business centers. This
segment, in general, provides coverage for damage to the customer's property
(fire, inland marine and auto), liability for bodily injury or damage to the
property of others (general liability, auto liability and excess), workers'
compensation insurance, and various professional liability coverages.

Medical Services underwrites professional liability, property and general
liability insurance for the health care delivery system. Products include
coverages for health care professionals (physicians and surgeons, dental
professionals and nurses); individual health care facilities (including
hospitals, long-term care facilities and other facilities such as laboratories);
and entire systems, such as hospital networks and managed care systems.
Specialized claim and loss control services are vital components of Medical
Services' insurance products and services. The Medical Services business center
is the second-largest medical liability insurer in the United States, with
premium volume accounting for approximately 7% of the U.S. market based on 1997
premium data published in "Best's Review."






Custom Markets includes the following business units serving specific commercial
customer groups. OCEAN MARINE provides a variety of property-liability insurance
related to ocean and inland waterways traffic, including cargo and hull property
protection. Effective Jan. 1, 1999, the Ocean Marine business center was
transferred to The St. Paul's International segment to form a new Global Marine
underwriting unit. SURPLUS LINES underwrites products liability insurance,
umbrella and excess liability coverages, property insurance for high-risk
classes of business, and coverages for unique, sometimes one-of-a-kind risks.
TECHNOLOGY underwrites a range of specialized coverages for information
technology firms, including manufacturers of electronics, industrial machinery
and medical equipment. OIL AND GAS provides standard and specialty insurance
coverages for customers involved in the exploration and production of oil and
gas, including operators, drillers and oil servicing contractors. SPECIALTY
LINES provides unsupported umbrellas, policies and SIR products in the specialty
admitted market. ST. PAUL ATHENA is a specialty underwriting facility dedicated
to business generated through Swett & Crawford, a wholesale insurance brokerage
subsidiary of Aon Corporation (Aon).

Professional Markets is composed of FINANCIAL AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES, which
provides fidelity and property-liability coverages for depository institutions,
and markets errors and omissions coverages for lawyers, insurance agents and
other nonmedical professionals, including directors and officers; and PUBLIC
SECTOR SERVICES, which markets insurance products and services, including
professional liability insurance, to all levels of government entities.

PERSONAL INSURANCE. This segment provides a broad portfolio of
property-liability insurance products and services for individuals. Through a
variety of single-line policies and multi-line package policies, individuals can
acquire coverages to protect personal property such as homes, automobiles and
boats, as well as to provide coverage for personal liability. The Personal
Insurance segment also provides nonstandard auto coverages, which are marketed
to individuals who are unable to obtain standard coverage due to their inability
to meet certain underwriting criteria.

INTERNATIONAL

The St. Paul's International business segment is responsible for most of The St.
Paul's primary insurance written outside the United States. International has a
presence through insurance companies licensed in Canada and 11 countries in
Europe, Africa and Latin America. It also includes business generated from The
St. Paul's participation in Lloyd's of London as a provider of capital to
selected underwriting syndicates and as the owner of three managing agencies.
International also includes insurance written for foreign operations of
multinational corporations based in the United States and insurance written to
cover exposures in the United States for foreign-based companies. This segment
predominantly markets specialty commercial insurance in the international arena,
offering a broad range of products and services tailored to meet the unique
needs of both its multinational customers as well as its customers in each of
the domestic markets which it serves. The St. Paul sold its personal insurance
business in the United Kingdom in early 1998 to Norwich Union Insurance Ltd.

ST. PAUL RE

St. Paul Re underwrites reinsurance worldwide, with clients in North America,
Latin America, the Caribbean, Europe, Australia and the Asia-Pacific region.
Reinsurance is an agreement by which an insurance company will transfer, or
"cede," a portion of the risk it has underwritten to a reinsurer, paying a
premium to do so. A large portion of reinsurance is effected automatically under
general reinsurance contracts known as treaties. In some instances, reinsurance
is effected by negotiation on individual risks, which is referred to as
facultative reinsurance. St. Paul Re underwrites both treaty and facultative
reinsurance for property, liability, ocean marine, surety and several specialty
coverages.

The merger added USF&G's reinsurance operation, F&G Re, to The St. Paul's
reinsurance segment. F&G Re brought a diverse mix of reinsurance products and
enhanced St. Paul Re's capabilities in several areas, including
"non-traditional" reinsurance, an area of increasing demand that combines
elements of traditional underwriting risk with financial risk protections.






The merger also added Discover Re Managers, Inc. (Discover Re) to The St. Paul's
reinsurance segment. Discover Re provides primary insurance, reinsurance and
related services to the alternative risk transfer market, primarily in the
municipalities, transportation, education and retail markets. Through
alternative risk transfer, a company self-insures, or insures through a captive
insurer, the portion of its own losses which are predictable and purchases
insurance for the less predictable, high-severity losses that could have a major
financial impact on the company.

According to data published by the Reinsurance Association of America, St. Paul
Re's written premium volume of $833 million through the first nine months of
1998 ranked it as the sixth-largest reinsurer in the United States. According to
data published in "Best's Review," The St. Paul would rank as the 14th- largest
property-liability reinsurer in the world, based on 1997 written premiums.


PRINCIPAL MARKETS AND METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION

The St. Paul's U.S. Underwriting operations are licensed to transact business in
all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin
Islands. At least five percent of U.S. Underwriting's 1998 property-liability
written premiums were produced in each of Illinois, California, Florida and New
York.

U.S. Underwriting's business is produced primarily through approximately 8,400
independent insurance agencies and insurance brokers. The needs of agents,
brokers and policyholders are addressed through 40 service offices in major
cities throughout the United States and 85 additional offices in the United
States.

St. Paul Re produces reinsurance business from its New York headquarters, as
well as from offices in London, Miami, Chicago, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Brussels,
Morristown NJ, Munich, Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Sydney and San Francisco. It
underwrites business through brokers and, for certain types of reinsurance and
in certain markets, on a direct basis. Discover Re underwrites alternative risk
transfer business from its Farmington, CT headquarters, from regional U.S. 
offices in Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Dallas, Minneapolis and San Francisco, and from 
a correspondent office in London.

Our International operations are headquartered in London and underwrite
insurance through domestic operations in 11 markets outside the United States
(Argentina, Botswana, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Mexico, South Africa,
Spain, The Netherlands and the United Kingdom). These operations distribute
their products principally through independent brokers. Through its presence at
Lloyd's of London, International has access to business markets in virtually
every country of the world for its specialty products including aviation, kidnap
and ransom, malicious product tampering, creditor/payment protection and
personal accident. International's group of three Lloyd's of London managing
agencies underwrites business for eight syndicates, collectively representing
approximately 4% of Lloyd's total capacity.


RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

GENERAL INFORMATION.  When claims are made by or against policyholders, any
amounts that The St. Paul's underwriting operations pay or expect to pay to the
claimant are referred to as losses.  The costs of investigating, resolving and
processing these claims are referred to as loss adjustment expenses (LAE).  The
St. Paul establishes reserves that reflect the estimated unpaid total cost of
these two items.  The reserves for unpaid losses and LAE at    Dec. 31, 1998
cover claims that were incurred not only in 1998 but also in prior years.  They
include estimates of the total cost of claims that have already been reported
but not yet settled ("case" reserves), and those that have been incurred but not
yet reported ("IBNR" reserves). Loss reserves are reduced for estimates of
salvage and subrogation.

Loss reserves for certain workers' compensation business and certain assumed
reinsurance contracts are discounted to present value. Additional information
about these discounted liabilities is set forth in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. During 1998, $3.8 million
of discount was amortized and $5.0 million of discount was accrued.







Management continually reviews loss reserves, using a variety of statistical and
actuarial techniques to analyze current claim costs, frequency and severity
data, and prevailing economic, social and legal factors. Management believes
that the reserves currently established for losses and LAE are adequate to cover
their eventual costs. However, final claim payments may differ from these
reserves, particularly when these payments may not take place for several years.
Reserves established in prior years are adjusted as loss experience develops and
new information becomes available. Adjustments to previously estimated reserves
are reflected in results in the year in which they are made.

For certain reinsurance contracts entered into prior to the issuance of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 113, "Accounting and
Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," (for
GAAP accounting purposes) and Chapter 22 - Reinsurance (for statutory accounting
purposes), The St. Paul follows deposit accounting for GAAP purposes and
reinsurance accounting for statutory purposes. Since the statutory accounting
was implemented on a prospective basis, however, a difference between GAAP and
statutory reserves exists for contracts entered into prior to Chapter 22
implementation. Such difference amounted to $124 million at Dec. 31, 1998.

TEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT. The table on page 9 presents a development of net loss and
LAE reserve liabilities and payments for the years 1988 through 1998. The top
line on the table shows the estimated liability for unpaid losses and LAE, net
of reinsurance recoverables, recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the
years indicated.

In 1997, The St. Paul changed the method by which it assigns loss activity to a
particular year for assumed reinsurance written by its U.K.-based reinsurance
operation. Prior to 1997, that loss activity was assigned to the year in which
the underlying reinsurance contract was written. In 1997, The St. Paul's
analysis indicated that an excess amount of loss activity was being assigned to
prior years because of this practice. As a result, The St. Paul implemented an
improved procedure in 1997 that more accurately assigns loss activity for this
business to the year in which it occurred. This change had the impact of
increasing favorable development on previously established reserves by
approximately $110 million in 1997. There was no net impact on total incurred
losses, however, because there was a corresponding increase in the provision for
current year loss activity in 1997. Development data for individual years prior
to 1997 in this table were not restated to reflect this new procedure because
reliable data to do so was not available.

The upper portion of the table, which shows the re-estimated amounts relating to
the previously recorded liabilities, is based upon experience as of the end of
each succeeding year. These estimates are either increased or decreased as
further information becomes known about individual claims and as changes in the
trend of claim frequency and severity become apparent.

The "Cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" line on the table for any given year
represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the
year the reserves were initially established. For example, the 1991 reserve of
$12,848 million developed to $12,479 million, or a $369 million redundancy, by
the end of 1993. By the end of 1998, the 1991 reserve had developed a redundancy
of $949 million. The changes in the estimate of 1991 loss reserves were
reflected in operations during the past seven years.

In 1993, The St. Paul adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 113, "Accounting and
Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts." This
statement required, among other things, that reinsurance recoverables on unpaid
losses and LAE be shown as an asset, instead of the prior practice of netting
this amount against insurance reserves for balance sheet reporting purposes.

The middle portion of the table, which includes data for only those periods
impacted since the adoption of SFAS No. 113 (the years 1992 through 1998),
represents a reconciliation between the net reserve liability as shown on the
top line of the table and the gross reserve liability as shown on The St. Paul's
balance sheet. This portion of the table also presents the gross re-estimated
reserve liability as of the end of the latest re-estimation period (Dec. 31,
1998) and the related re-estimated reinsurance recoverable. The St. Paul did not
restate data for years prior to 1992 in this table for presentation on a gross
basis due to the impracticality of determining such gross data on a reliable
basis for its foreign underwriting operations.







The lower portion of the table presents the cumulative amounts paid with respect
to the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding year. For
example, as of Dec. 31, 1998, $8,812 million of the currently estimated $11,899
million of losses and LAE that have been incurred for the years up to and
including 1991 have been paid. Thus, as of Dec. 31, 1998, it is estimated that
$3,087 million of incurred losses and LAE have yet to be paid for the years up
to and including 1991.

Caution should be exercised in evaluating the information shown on this table.
It should be noted that each amount includes the effects of all changes in
amounts for prior periods. For example, the portion of the development shown for
year-end 1995 reserves that relates to 1988 losses is included in the cumulative
redundancy (deficiency) for the years 1988 through 1995.

In addition, the table presents calendar year data. It does not present accident
or policy year development data, which some readers may be more accustomed to
analyzing. The social, economic and legal conditions and other trends which have
had an impact on the changes in the estimated liability in the past are not
necessarily indicative of the future. Accordingly, readers are cautioned against
extrapolating any conclusions about future results from the information
presented in this table.

Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in The St.
Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, includes a reconciliation of
beginning and ending loss reserve liabilities for each of the last three years
and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information about The St.
Paul's reserves is contained in the "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves"
and "Environmental and Asbestos Claims" sections of "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" of The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference.







ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE (LAE) DEVELOPMENT
(in millions)



(1)  The results of The St. Paul's U.K.-based operations translated from
     original currencies into U.S. dollars are included with The St. Paul's U.S.
     underwriting operations in this table for all years presented. The foreign
     currency translation impact on the cumulative redundancy arises from the
     difference between reserve developments translated at the exchange rates at
     the end of the year in which the liabilities were originally estimated, and
     the exchange rates at the end of the year in which the liabilities were re-
     estimated.









CEDED REINSURANCE. Through ceded reinsurance, other insurers and reinsurers
agree to share certain risks that The St. Paul's subsidiaries have underwritten.
The purpose of reinsurance is to limit a ceding insurer's maximum net loss
arising from large risks or catastrophes. Reinsurance also serves to increase
the direct writing capacity of the ceding insurer. Amounts recoverable on ceded
losses are recorded as an asset.

With respect to ceded reinsurance, The St. Paul strives to protect its assets
from large individual risk and occurrence losses, and provide its respective
underwriting operations with the capacity necessary to write large limits on
accounts.

The collectibility of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of reinsurers. The
St. Paul's Reinsurance Security Committee, which has established financial
standards to determine qualified, financially secure reinsurers, guides the
placement of ceded reinsurance. Uncollectible reinsurance recoverables have not
had a material adverse impact on The St. Paul's results of operations, liquidity
or financial position. Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, which
is included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, provides a
schedule of ceded reinsurance information and is incorporated herein by
reference.


PROPERTY - LIABILITY INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

OBJECTIVES.  The St. Paul's board of directors approves the overall aggregate
investment plan for the companies within The St. Paul group.  Each subsidiary
adopts its own specific investment policy tailored to comply with domestic laws
and regulations and the overall corporate investment plan.  The primary
objectives of those plans are as follows:

     1)   to maintain a widely diversified fixed maturities portfolio structured
          to maximize investment income while minimizing credit risk through
          investments in high-quality instruments;

     2)   to provide for long-term growth in the market value of the investment
          portfolio and enhance shareholder value through investments in certain
          other investment classes, such as equity securities, venture capital
          and real estate.

The St. Paul has had limited involvement with derivative financial instruments
for purposes of hedging against fluctuations in foreign currency and interest
rates.  The St. Paul has not participated in the derivatives market for trading
or speculative purposes.

FIXED MATURITIES.  Fixed maturities constituted 77% of The St. Paul's property-
liability insurance operations' investment portfolio at Dec. 31, 1998.  The
portfolio is primarily composed of high-quality, intermediate-term taxable U.S.
government agency and corporate bonds and tax-exempt U.S. municipal bonds.  The
following table presents information about the fixed maturities portfolio for
the last three years (dollars in millions).





The St. Paul determines the mix of its investments in taxable and tax-exempt
securities based on its current and projected tax position and the relationship
between taxable and tax-exempt investment yields. Fixed maturity purchases in
1998 consisted of intermediate-term, investment-grade taxable and tax-exempt
securities. The fixed maturities portfolio is carried on The St. Paul's balance
sheet at estimated fair value, with unrealized appreciation and depreciation
(net of taxes) recorded in common shareholders' equity. At December 31, 1998,
pretax unrealized appreciation totaled $1.02 billion.









The fixed maturities portfolio is managed conservatively to provide reasonable
returns while limiting exposure to risks. Approximately 95% of the fixed
maturities portfolio is rated at investment grade levels (BBB or better).
Nonrated and non-investment grade (high-yield) securities comprise the remainder
of the portfolio. The high-yield investments, acquired in the merger with USF&G,
represent a minimal percentage of the portfolio.

EQUITIES. Equity securities comprised 4% of the property-liability operations'
investments (at cost) at December 31, 1998, and consist of a diversified
portfolio of common stocks, which are held with the primary objective of
achieving capital appreciation. Sales of equities generated $158 million of
pretax realized investment gains in 1998, and dividend income totaled $15
million. The portfolio's carrying value at year-end included $300 million of
pretax unrealized appreciation.

REAL ESTATE AND MORTGAGE LOANS. The St. Paul's property-liability operations'
real estate holdings consist of a diversified portfolio of commercial office and
warehouse properties that The St. Paul owns directly or has partial interest in
through joint ventures. The properties are geographically distributed throughout
the United States. The St. Paul also has a portfolio of real estate mortgage
investments acquired in the merger with USF&G. The real estate and mortgage loan
portfolio produced $82 million of pretax investment income in 1998, and sales of
these investments in 1998 generated $8 million of pretax realized gains.

VENTURE CAPITAL. Securities of small- to medium-sized companies spanning a
variety of industries comprise The St. Paul's venture capital holdings, which
accounted for 2% of property-liability investments (at cost) at December 31,
1998. These investments are in the form of limited partnership interests or
direct equity investments. Venture capital investments generated pretax realized
investment gains of $25 million in 1998. The carrying value of venture capital
investments at December 31, 1998 included $182 million of pretax unrealized
appreciation.

SECURITIES LENDING COLLATERAL. This investment class consists of collateral held
on certain fixed-maturity securities loaned to other institutions through a
lending agent for short periods of time. The collateral is maintained at 102%,
marked to market daily, of the fair value of the loaned securities. The St. Paul
retains full ownership of the loaned securities and is indemnified by the
lending agent in the event a borrower becomes insolvent or fails to return the
securities.

OTHER INVESTMENTS.  The St. Paul's portfolio also includes short-term securities
and other miscellaneous investments, which in the aggregate comprised 5% of
property-liability investments at December 31, 1998.

Notes 1, 4, 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements, which are 
included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, provide 
additional information about The St. Paul's investment portfolio and are 
incorporated herein by reference. The "Investment Operations" and "Exposures 
to Market Risk" sections of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in said 
Annual Report are also incorporated herein by reference.

LIFE INSURANCE

Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance Company (F&G Life) and its subsidiaries
market many forms of annuity and life insurance products, including
equity-indexed annuities, single premium deferred annuities, tax sheltered
annuities, single premium immediate annuities and universal life and term life
insurance.

Single premium deferred annuities and equity indexed annuities are sold
primarily through independent agents and insurance brokers. Tax sheltered
annuities are sold through a national wholesaler. Structured settlements are
annuities sold predominantly to property-liability companies (including The 
St. Paul's U.S. Underwriting operations) in settlement of certain of their 
insurance claims.

Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which is included in The St.
Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, provides a table of F&G Life's future
policy benefit reserves by type of product and is incorporated herein by
reference.






LIFE INSURANCE INVESTMENT OPERATIONS. F&G Life's investment portfolio totaled 
$3.8 billion at December 31, 1998, consisting of investment grade government 
and corporate securities (59% of the total); asset-backed and mortgage-backed 
securities (19%); high-yield investments (9%); real estate mortgage loans and 
other investments (13%). F&G Life uses derivative instruments in the form of 
over-the-counter indexed call options for the purpose of hedging interest 
credited on its equity-indexed annuity products. The cost of derivatives 
amounts to less than 1% of invested assets.

ASSET MANAGEMENT

The John Nuveen Company (Nuveen) is The St. Paul's asset management subsidiary.
The St. Paul and its largest property-liability insurance subsidiary, St. Paul
Fire and Marine Insurance Company (Fire and Marine) hold a combined 78% interest
in Nuveen.

Nuveen's principal businesses are asset management and related research; the
development, marketing and distribution of investment products and services; and
municipal and corporate investment banking services. Nuveen distributes its
investment products, including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (closed-end
funds), defined portfolio products (formerly referred to as unit trusts), and
individually managed accounts through registered representatives associated with
unaffiliated firms including broker/dealers, commercial banks, affiliates of
insurance providers, financial planners, accountants, consultants, and
investment advisers.

Nuveen's primary business activities generate three principal sources of
revenue: (1) ongoing advisory fees earned on assets under management, including
mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and individually managed accounts; (2)
transaction-based revenue earned upon the distribution of mutual fund and
defined portfolio products; and (3) investment banking revenues, consisting of
underwriting and advisory fees.

Nuveen's operations are organized around five subsidiaries: John Nuveen & Co.
Incorporated (Nuveen & Co.), a registered broker and dealer in securities under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and four investment advisory subsidiaries
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The four investment
advisory subsidiaries are Nuveen Advisory Corp. (NAC), Nuveen Institutional
Advisory Corp. (NIAC), Nuveen Asset Management Inc. (NAM) and Rittenhouse
Financial Services, Inc. (Rittenhouse). Nuveen & Co. provides investment product
distribution and related services for Nuveen's managed funds and defined
portfolios, and houses Nuveen's investment banking activities. NAC and NIAC
provide investment management services for and administer the business affairs
of the Nuveen managed funds. Rittenhouse and NAM provide investment management
services to individually managed accounts and Rittenhouse also acts as
sub-adviser and portfolio manager to a mutual fund managed by NIAC.

At December 31, 1998, Nuveen's assets under management totaled $55.3 billion,
consisting of $26.2 billion of exchange-traded funds, $16.4 billion of managed
accounts, and $12.7 billion of mutual funds. Municipal securities accounted for
71% of the underlying managed assets.

In 1998, Nuveen repurchased 732,700 of its outstanding common shares (solely
from minority shareholders) for a total cost of $27 million. In 1997, Nuveen
repurchased 1.8 million of its outstanding common shares for a total cost of $55
million. The repurchases in 1997 were proportioned between The St. Paul and
minority shareholders to maintain the combined 77% ownership interest in Nuveen
then held by The St. Paul and Fire and Marine. The St. Paul received proceeds of
$41 million from Nuveen's share repurchases in 1997.







COMPETITION AND REGULATION

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INSURANCE. The St. Paul's domestic and international
underwriting subsidiaries compete with a large number of other insurers and
reinsurers. In addition, many large commercial customers self-insure their risks
or utilize large deductibles on purchased insurance. The St. Paul's subsidiaries
compete principally by attempting to offer a combination of superior products,
underwriting expertise and services at a competitive price. The combination of
products, services, pricing and other methods of competition varies by line of
insurance and by coverage within each line of insurance.

The St. Paul and its underwriting subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
certain states as an insurance holding company system. Such regulation generally
provides that transactions between companies within the holding company system
must be fair and equitable. Transfers of assets among such affiliated companies,
certain dividend payments from underwriting subsidiaries and certain material
transactions between companies within the system may be subject to prior notice
to, or prior approval by state regulatory authorities. During 1998, The St. Paul
received from its U.S. Underwriting operations $200 million of cash dividends.
In 1999, up to $295 million in cash dividends can be paid by the U.S.
Underwriting operations to The St. Paul without regulatory approval. In
addition, any change of control (generally presumed by the holding company laws
to occur with the acquisition of 10% or more of an insurance holding company's
voting securities) of The St. Paul and its underwriting subsidiaries is subject
to prior approval.

The underwriting subsidiaries are subject to licensing and supervision by
government regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions in which they do business.
The nature and extent of such regulation vary but generally have their source in
statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to
insurance regulators, which in the U.S. are state authorities. Such regulation,
supervision and administration of the underwriting subsidiaries may relate,
among other things, to the standards of solvency which must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and
limitations on investments; restrictions on the size of risk which may be
insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; regulation of policy forms and premium rates; periodic
examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports
required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other
purposes; requirements regarding reserves for unearned premiums, losses and
other matters; the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders and
shareholders; the nature and extent of required participation in insurance
guaranty funds; and the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk
insurance business, primarily in the personal auto and workers' compensation
insurance lines.

Loss ratio trends in property-liability insurance underwriting experience may be
improved by, among other things, changing the kinds of coverages provided by
policies, providing loss prevention and risk management services, increasing
premium rates or by a combination of these. The freedom of The St. Paul's
insurance underwriting subsidiaries to meet emerging adverse underwriting trends
may be slowed, from time to time, by the effects of laws which require prior
approval by insurance regulatory authorities of changes in policy forms and
premium rates. The St. Paul's U.S. Underwriting operations do business in all 50
states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin
Islands. Many of these jurisdictions require prior approval of most or all
premium rates.

The St. Paul's insurance underwriting business in the United Kingdom is
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSA's principal
objectives are to ensure that insurance companies are responsibly managed, that
they have adequate funds to meet liabilities to policyholders and that they
maintain required levels of solvency. In Canada, the conduct of insurance
business is regulated under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act of 1992,
which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital
depending on the type and amount of insurance policies in force. The Lloyd's of
London operation is currently regulated by the Council of Lloyd's, a
self-regulatory organization, but will in due course be regulated by the FSA.
The St. Paul is also subject to regulations in the other countries and
jurisdictions in which it writes insurance business.

LIFE INSURANCE. The St. Paul's life insurance subsidiaries operate in a
competitive environment, with approximately 1,200 companies nationwide in the
industry including stock and mutual companies. F&G Life ranked 173rd based on
1997 statutory net premiums written, 144th based on 1997 statutory assets, and
173rd based on 1997 statutory capital and surplus. In the life insurance
industry, interest crediting rates, underwriting philosophy, policy features,






financial stability and service quality are important competitive factors. 
F&G Life's products compete not only with those offered by other life 
insurance companies, but also with other income accumulation-oriented 
products offered by other financial services companies. The life insurance 
industry has experienced considerable competitive pressure in recent periods 
as a result of fluctuating interest rates.

F&G Life is subject to licensing and supervision by government regulatory 
agencies in the jurisdictions in which it does business. The nature and 
extent of regulation vary but generally have their source in statutes which 
delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance 
commissioners. Such regulation and supervision of F&G Life may relate, among 
other things, to the standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; 
the licensing of insurers and agents, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; 
regulation of policy forms; periodic examination of the affairs of the 
company; annual and other reports required to be filed; requirements 
regarding reserves for policyholder benefits; fixing maximum interest rates 
on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for accumulation of 
surrender values; the nature of and limitations on dividends to policyholders 
and shareholder; and the nature and extent of required participation in 
insurance guaranty funds.

ASSET MANAGEMENT. Nuveen is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of
its business. Investment products are sold to the public by broker-dealers,
banks, insurance companies and others. Nuveen competes with these other
providers of products primarily on the basis of the range of products offered,
the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged,
the level and type of broker compensation, the manner in which such products are
marketed and distributed, and the services provided to investors.

Nuveen is a publicly-traded company registered under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. One of its subsidiaries,
Nuveen & Co., is a broker and dealer registered under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and other
federal and state agencies and self-regulatory organizations. It is also subject
to net capital requirements that restrict its ability to pay dividends. Nuveen's
other four subsidiaries are investment advisers registered under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940. As such, they are subject to regulation by the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE

The "Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure" section of "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT DISCLOSURE

This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
statements other than historical information or statements of current condition.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks or
estimates, or variations of such words, and similar expressions are also
intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of these
forward-looking statements include statements concerning the effects of
competition and other factors on premiums and revenues, costs and income,
anticipated cost savings as a result of the USF&G merger, and expectations
regarding Year 2000 issues and The St. Paul's efforts to address them.

In light of the risks and uncertainties inherent in future projections, many of
which are beyond The St. Paul's control, actual results could differ materially
from those in the forward-looking statements. These statements should not be
regarded as a representation that anticipated events will occur or that expected
objectives will be achieved. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not
limited to, the following: general economic conditions including changes in
interest rates and the performance of financial markets; changes in domestic and
foreign laws, regulations and taxes; changes in the demand for, pricing of, or
supply of reinsurance or insurance; catastrophic events of unanticipated
frequency or severity; loss of significant customers; judicial decisions and
rulings; and various other matters, including the effects of the merger with
USF&G. Actual results and experience relating to Year 2000 issues could differ
materially from anticipated results or other expectations as a result of a
variety of risks and uncertainties, including the impact of systems faults, the
failure to successfully remediate material systems of The St. Paul, the time to
remediate system







failures once they occur, the failure of third parties (including public
utilities, agents and brokers) to properly remediate material Year 2000
problems, and unanticipated judicial interpretations of the scope of its
reinsurance or the insurance coverage provided by The St. Paul's policies. The
St. Paul undertakes no obligation to release publicly the results of any future
revisions it may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

Fire and Marine owns The St. Paul's corporate headquarters buildings, located at
385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street, St. Paul, MN. These buildings 
are adjacent to one another and connected by skyway, and consist of 
approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor space. Fire and Marine also
owns a building in Freeport, Illinois that houses a portion of its personal
insurance operations, and property in Woodbury, MN where its Administrative
Services Building and off-site computer processing operations are located. The
St. Paul also owns the former USF&G headquarters campus known as Mount
Washington Center, located in Baltimore, MD. The campus currently houses offices
for certain executives of The St. Paul, as well as offices for certain
underwriting, legal and claim personnel. A training and development center also
resides on the Mount Washington campus. The St. Paul has entered into an
agreement to lease a substantial portion of one of the buildings on the campus
to an outside party.

St. Paul International Insurance Company Ltd. owns a building in London,
England, which houses a portion of its operations.  One of the two Minet
buildings in London that The St. Paul retained ownership of after the sale of
Minet to Aon in 1997 was sold at the end of 1998.  In March 1999, The St. Paul
reached an agreement to lease the other Minet building to an outside party.

Fire and Marine and its subsidiary, St. Paul Properties, Inc., own a portfolio
of income-producing properties in various locations across the United States
that they have purchased for investment. A portion of the real estate investment
portfolio of the former USF&G is being integrated into The St. Paul's portfolio,
with the remainder being held for sale to third parties.

The St. Paul's operating subsidiaries rent or lease office space in most cities
in which they operate.

Management considers the currently owned and leased office facilities of The St.
Paul and its subsidiaries adequate for the current and anticipated future level
of operations.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The information set forth in the "Legal Matters" section of Note 12 to the
consolidated financial statements, and the "Environmental and Asbestos Claims"
section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis," which are included in The St.
Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.


In 1990, at the direction of the UK Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), five
insurance underwriting subsidiaries of London United Investments PLC (LUI)
suspended underwriting new insurance business. At the same time, four of those
subsidiaries, being insolvent, suspended payment of claims and have since been
placed in provisional liquidation. The fifth subsidiary, Walbrook Insurance
Company, continued paying claims until May of 1992 but has now also been placed
in provisional insolvent liquidation. Weavers Underwriting Agency (Weavers), an
LUI subsidiary, managed these insurers. Minet, a former insurance brokerage
subsidiary of The St. Paul, had brokered business to and from Weavers for many
years. From 1973 through 1980, The St. Paul's UK-based underwriting operations,
now called St. Paul International Insurance Company Ltd. (SPI), had accepted
business from Weavers. A portion of that business was ceded by SPI to
reinsurers. Certain of those reinsurers have challenged the validity of certain
reinsurance contracts relating to the Weavers pool, of which SPI was a member,
in an attempt to avoid liability under those contracts. SPI and other members of
the Weavers pool are seeking enforcement of the reinsurance contracts. Minet may
also become the subject of legal proceedings arising from its role as one of the
major brokers for Weavers. When The St. Paul sold Minet in May 1997, it agreed
to indemnify the purchaser for most of Minet's preclosing liabilities, including
liabilities relating to the Weavers matter. Any proceedings relating to the
Weavers matter will be vigorously contested by The St. Paul and it recognizes
that the final outcome of these proceedings, if adverse to The St. Paul, may
materially impact the results of operations in the period in which that outcome
occurs, but believes it will not have a materially adverse effect on its
liquidity or overall financial position.







ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended
December 31, 1998.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

All of the following persons are regarded as executive officers of The St. Paul
Companies, Inc. because of their responsibilities and duties as elected officers
of The St. Paul, Fire and Marine, St. Paul International Underwriting or St.
Paul Re.  There are no family relationships between any of The St. Paul's
executive officers and directors, and there are no arrangements or
understandings between any of these officers and any other person pursuant to
which the officer was selected as an officer.  The officers listed in the chart
below, except Thomas A. Bradley, Michael J. Conroy, James E. Gustafson, James
Hom, Stephen W. Lilienthal, Paul J. Liska, John A. MacColl and David R. Nachbar,
have held positions with The St. Paul or one or more of its subsidiaries for
more than five years, and have been employees of The St. Paul or a subsidiary
for more than five years.

Messrs. Thomas A. Bradley, Stephen W. Lilienthal and John A. MacColl held
positions and were employees of USF&G Corporation or one of its subsidiaries for
five or more years prior to its merger with The St. Paul. in April of 1998.
James E. Gustafson joined the company on Jan. 30, 1999.  He had been an employee
of General Re Corporation since 1969 where he held various executive positions
until being named President and Chief Operating Officer of General Re
Corporation in 1995.  Paul J. Liska joined The St. Paul in January of 1997.  For
three years prior to that date, Mr. Liska held various management positions with
Specialty Foods Corporation, including the position of president and chief
executive officer from January 1996 to January 1997.

Michael J. Conroy joined The St. Paul in August of 1994. For five years prior to
that date, Mr. Conroy held various manager positions with The Home Insurance
Company, including executive vice president and chief administrative officer.
James Hom joined The St. Paul in October of 1994. Prior to that, Mr. Hom served
as vice president-corporate claims and project management for The Home Insurance
Company. David R. Nachbar joined The St. Paul in August 1998. For two years
prior to that date, Mr. Nachbar was employed as vice president, human resources
and chief of staff-Asia for Citibank. From 1995 - 1996 he was the area human
resources director for Frito-Lay, a PepsiCo unit. From 1989 through 1995, Mr.
Nachbar was employed in various capacities in the human resources area by the
Pizza Hut division of PepsiCo.















                                     PART II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The St. Paul's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, where it
is assigned the symbol SPC. The stock is also listed on the London Stock
Exchange under the symbol SPA. The number of holders of record, including
individual owners, of The St. Paul's common stock was 24,179 as of March 1,
1999.

The "Stock Trading" and "Stock Price and Dividend Rate" portions of the
"Shareholder Information" section of The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

The "Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" included in The St. Paul's
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

The "Management's Discussion and Analysis" included in The St. Paul's 1998
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

The "Exposures to Market Risk" section in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The "Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements," "Independent
Auditors' Report," Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of
Income, Comprehensive Income, Shareholders' Equity and Cash Flows, and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report
to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.





                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

The "Election of Directors - Nominees for Directors" section, which provides
information regarding The St. Paul's directors, on pages 4 to 6 of The St.
Paul's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
May 4, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference. James E. Gustafson, 52,
elected President and Chief Operating Officer of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. by
the board of directors in January of 1999, is standing for election by
shareholders for the first time at the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Norman P. Blake, Jr., 57, is currently a director of The St. Paul, but is not
standing for re-election at the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Information
regarding The St. Paul's executive officers is included in Part I of this
report.

The "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" section on page 40
of The St. Paul's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 4, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The "Executive Compensation" section on pages 22 to 35 and the "Election of
Directors - Board of Directors Compensation" section on pages 7 to 10 of the
Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 4,
1999, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
          OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

The "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" section on
pages 37 to 39 of the Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held May 4, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

The "Indebtedness of Management" section on page 36 of the Proxy Statement
relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 4, 1999, is
incorporated herein by reference.







                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
          SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) Filed documents. The following documents are filed as part of this report:

    1.       Financial Statements.
             Incorporated by reference into Part II of this report:

               The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries:
               Consolidated Statements of Income - Years Ended
                 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
               Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income -
                 Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
               Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1998
                 and 1997
               Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
                 Equity - Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended
                 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
               Independent Auditors' Report

               The foregoing documents are incorporated by reference to The
                        St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.

    2.       Financial Statement Schedules.
             The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries:

                   Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules
             I.    Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related
                   Parties
             II.   Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
             III.  Supplementary Insurance Information
             IV.   Reinsurance
             V.    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
             VII.  Predecessor Auditors' Reports on Consolidated Financial 
                   Statements and Financial Statement Schedules


              All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable,
                  not required, or the information is included elsewhere in the
                  Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

    3. Exhibits. An Exhibit Index is set forth at page 38 of this report.

             (2)      The definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger
                      among The St. Paul, USF&G Corporation and SP
                      Merger Corporation is incorporated herein by
                      reference to the Form 8-K Current Report
                      dated January 19, 1998.

              (3) (a) The current articles of incorporation of The St. Paul are
                      filed herewith.

                  (b) The current bylaws of The St. Paul are incorporated herein
                      by reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                      1994.







              (4) (a) A specimen certificate of The St. Paul's common stock is
                      filed herewith.

                  (b) The Amended and Restated Shareholder Protection Rights
                      Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Form 10-Q
                      for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

                      There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                      amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total
                      assets of The St. Paul and its subsidiaries on a
                      consolidated basis. The St. Paul agrees to furnish a copy
                      of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                      and Exchange Commission upon request.

              (10)(a) The Employment Agreement between The St. Paul and Mr.
                      James E. Gustafson dated as of January 6, 1999 is filed
                      herewith.

                  (b) The Restricted Stock Award Plan, as amended, is filed
                      herewith.

                  (c) The 1988 Stock Option Plan as in effect for options
                      granted prior to June 1994, as amended, is filed herewith.

                  (d) The Non-Employee Director Stock Retainer Plan is filed
                      herewith.

                  (e) The Amended and Restated Special Severance Policy is 
                      filed herewith.

                  (f) The Confidential Separation Agreement between The St. Paul
                      and Mr. Patrick A. Thiele dated as of September 1, 1998
                      is filed herewith.

                  (g) The Annual Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference
                      to the Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting
                      of Shareholders to be held May 4, 1999.

                  (h) The Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Incentive Plan is
                      incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement relating
                      to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 4,
                      1999.

                  (i) The Deferred Management Incentive Awards Plan is
                      incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1997.

                  (j) The Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated
                      by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1997.

                  (k) The Relocation Loan Payback Agreement with Mr. James F.
                      Duffy is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the
                      year ended December 31, 1997.

                  (l) The Benefit Equalization Plan - 1995 Revision is
                      incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1997.

                  (m) First Amendment to Benefit Equalization Plan - 1995
                      Revision is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the
                      year ended December 31, 1997.

                  (n) Executive Post-Retirement Life Insurance Plan - Summary
                      Plan Description is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
                      for the year ended December 31, 1997.

                  (o) Executive Long-Term Disability Plan - Summary Plan
                      Description is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for
                      the year ended December 31, 1997.







                  (p) Letter Agreement dated Jan. 18, 1998 among The St. Paul,
                      USF&G Corporation, SP Merger Corporation and Mr. Norman P.
                      Blake, Jr. pertaining to Mr. Blake's duties with The St.
                      Paul subsequent to the consummation of the proposed merger
                      of The St. Paul and USF&G Corporation is incorporated by
                      reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1997.

                  (q) The St. Paul Re Long-Term Incentive Plan is incorporated
                      by reference to the Form S-8 Registration Statement filed
                      March 17, 1998 (Commission File No. 333-48121).

                  (r) Letter Agreement between The St. Paul and Mr. Paul J.
                      Liska relating to the terms of his employment is
                      incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter
                      ended March 31, 1997.

                  (s) Letter Agreement between The St. Paul and Mr. Paul J.
                      Liska relating to severance benefits is incorporated by
                      reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                      1997.

                  (t) The Special Leveraged Stock Purchase Plan is incorporated
                      by reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                      1997.

                  (u) Amendment to Deferred Stock Agreement with Mr. Mark L.
                      Pabst is incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q for the
                      quarter ended March 31, 1997.

                  (v) The Deferred Stock Grant Agreement with Mr. Mark L. Pabst
                      is incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1995.

                  (w) The Directors' Charitable Award Program is incorporated by
                      reference to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1994.

                  (x) The Long-Term Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference
                      to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994.

                  (y) The summary description of the Outside Directors'
                      Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
                      Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
                      to be held May 4, 1999.


              (11) A statement regarding the computation of per share earnings
                  is filed herewith.

              (12) A statement regarding the computation of the ratio of
                  earnings to fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to
                  combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends is filed
                  herewith.

              (13) The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is
                  furnished to the Commission in paper format pursuant to Rule
                  14a-3(c). The following portions of such annual report,
                  representing those portions expressly incorporated by
                  reference in this report on Form 10-K, are filed as an exhibit
                  to this report:










              (21) List of subsidiaries of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. is filed
                  herewith.

              (23) Consents of independent auditors to incorporation by
                  reference of certain reports into Registration Statements on
                  Form S-8 (SEC File No. 33-15392, No. 33-23446, No. 33-23948,
                  No. 33-24220, No. 33-24575, No. 33-26923, No. 33-49273, No.
                  33-56987, No. 333-01065, No. 333-22329, No. 333-25203, No.
                  333-28915, No. 333-48121, No. 333-50935, No. 333-50937, No.
                  333-50941, No. 333-50943 and No. 333-67983) and Form S-3 (SEC
                  File No. 33-33931, No. 33-50115, No. 33-58491, No. 333- 06465
                  and No. 333-67139) are filed herewith.

              (24) Power of attorney is filed herewith.

              (27) Financial data schedule is filed herewith.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

              A Form 8-K Current Report dated October 12, 1998 was filed
              relating to the announcement of the anticipated impact of
              catastrophe losses on The St. Paul's third quarter 1998 financial
              results, and the anticipated impact of adverse market conditions
              in the general commercial property/casualty marketplace on The St.
              Paul's third and fourth quarter 1998 financial results.

              A Form 8-K Current Report dated November 3, 1998 was filed
              relating to the announcement of The St. Paul's financial results
              for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 1998.

              A Form 8-K Current Report dated January 6, 1999 was filed
              relating to the election of James E. Gustafson as president and
              chief operating officer of The St. Paul.

              A Form 8-K Current Report dated January 29, 1999 was filed
              relating to the announcement of The St. Paul's financial results
              for the year ended Dec. 31, 1998.

              A Form 8-K Current Report dated March 4, 1999 was filed relating
              to the announcement of The St. Paul's revised financial results
              for the year ended Dec. 31, 1998.







Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, The St. Paul Companies, Inc. has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.




                                            THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC.
                                            ----------------------------
                                                (Registrant)

Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Sandra Ulsaker Wiese
       --------------                       ------------------------
                                            Sandra Ulsaker Wiese
                                            Senior Corporate Counsel and
                                            Corporate Secretary


Pursuant  to the  requirements  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report has been  signed  below by the following persons on behalf of The St.
Paul Companies, Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Douglas W. Leatherdale
       --------------                       --------------------------
                                            Douglas W. Leatherdale, 
                                            Director, Chairman of the
                                            Board and Chief Executive Officer
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ James E. Gustafson
       --------------                       ----------------------
                                            James E. Gustafson,
                                            Director, President and Chief
                                            Operating Officer
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Paul J. Liska
       --------------                       -----------------
                                            Paul J. Liska, 
                                            Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Thomas A. Bradley
       --------------                       ---------------------
                                            Thomas A. Bradley, 
                                            Senior Vice President and Chief
                                            Accounting Officer
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ H. Furlong Baldwin
       --------------                       ----------------------
                                            H. Furlong Baldwin*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Norman P. Blake, Jr.
       --------------                       ------------------------
                                            Norman P. Blake, Jr.*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Michael R. Bonsignore
       --------------                       -------------------------
                                            Michael R. Bonsignore*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ John H. Dasburg
       --------------                       -------------------
                                            John H. Dasburg*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ W. John Driscoll
       --------------                       --------------------
                                            W. John Driscoll*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Kenneth M. Duberstein
       --------------                       -------------------------
                                            Kenneth M. Duberstein*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Pierson M. Grieve
       --------------                       ---------------------
                                            Pierson M. Grieve*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Thomas R. Hodgson
       --------------                       ---------------------
                                            Thomas R. Hodgson*, Director










                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ David G. John
       --------------                       -----------------
                                            David G. John*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ William H. Kling
       --------------                       --------------------
                                            William H. Kling*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Bruce K. MacLaury
       --------------                       ---------------------
                                            Bruce K. MacLaury*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Glen D. Nelson, M.D.
       --------------                       ------------------------
                                            Glen D. Nelson, M.D.*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Anita M. Pampusch
       --------------                       ---------------------
                                            Anita M. Pampusch*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                   By  /s/ Gordon M. Sprenger
       --------------                       ----------------------
                                            Gordon M. Sprenger*, Director
                                        
Date:  March 31, 1999                  *By  /s/ Sandra Ulsaker Wiese
       --------------                       ------------------------
                                            Sandra Ulsaker Wiese, 
                                            Attorney-in-fact





          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES




The Board of Directors and Shareholders
The St. Paul Companies, Inc.:

Under date of March 2, 1999, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of
The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity,
comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1998, as contained in the 1998 annual report to
shareholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1998.
In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements we also have audited the related financial statement schedules I
through V, as listed in the index in Item 14(a)2. of said Form 10-K. These
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statement schedules based on our audits.

The consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules as of
December 31, 1997 and for each of the years in the two-year period then ended
have been restated to reflect the pooling of interests with USF&G Corporation.
We did not audit the consolidated financial statements or financial statement
schedules of USF&G Corporation as of December 31, 1997 or for either of the
years in the two-year period ended December 31, 1997, which statements reflect
total assets constituting 43 percent as of December 31, 1997 and total revenues
constituting 35 percent and 38 percent for the years ended December 31, 1997 and
1996, respectively, of the related consolidated totals. Those statements and
financial statement schedules were audited by other auditors whose reports have
been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts
included for USF&G Corporation, as of December 31, 1997 and for each of the
years in the two-year period then ended, is based solely on the reports of the
other auditors.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors, such
financial statement schedules I through V, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.




Minneapolis, Minnesota                             /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
March 2, 1999                                      -------------------------
                                                       KPMG Peat Marwick LLP







                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS
                    OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES

                                December 31, 1998
                                 (In thousands)



*  See Notes 1, 4, 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in
   The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.

** The cost of real estate represents the cost of properties before valuation
   provisions. (See Schedule V on page 35).







                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)

           SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
                           December 31, 1998 and 1997
                                 (In thousands)




See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.








                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)

           SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                    CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                                 (In thousands)



See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.






                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)

           SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                  CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                                 (In thousands)




See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.








                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)

           SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION



1.   The accompanying condensed financial information should be read in
     conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included
     in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders. The Annual Report
     includes The St. Paul's Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and
     Comprehensive Income.

     Some data in the accompanying condensed financial information for the years
     1997 and 1996 were reclassified to conform with the 1998 presentation.


2.   Debt consists of the following (in thousands):





     (1)  Eliminated in consolidation.

     See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in the 1998
     Annual Report to Shareholders for further information on debt outstanding
     at Dec. 31, 1998.

     The amount of debt, other than debt eliminated in consolidation, that
     becomes due during each of the next five years (including the debt 
     discussed in Note 3 below) is as follows: 1999, $277.5 million; 2000, none;
     2001, $195.2; 2002, $48.7 million; and 2003, $67.3 million.

3.   Subsequent Event: The St. Paul Companies, Inc. merged with USF&G
     Corporation on April 24, 1998 in a business combination accounted for as a
     pooling of interests. (See Note 2, "Merger with USF&G Corporation," to the
     consolidated financial statements included in The St. Paul's 1998 Annual
     Report to Shareholders). Effective Jan. 1, 1999, the former holding company
     for USF&G Corporation was merged into St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance
     Company, and the holding company was dissolved. Prior to that merger, the
     debt obligations of USF&G's holding company were assumed by The St. Paul
     Companies, Inc. As a result, The St. Paul Companies, Inc. parent-only
     financial statements in 1999 will include $150 million of 8-3/8% Senior
     Notes and $80 million of 7-1/8% Senior Notes assumed from the former USF&G
     holding company.







                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

               SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                                 (In thousands)



* 1997 segment data included for the former USF&G Corporation in these 
columns is presented net of reinsurance, because such data on a gross basis 
by segment is unavailable. As a result, reinsurance recoverables relating to 
the former USF&G Corporation are included, separately, to present The St. 
Paul's consolidated loss and loss adjustment reserves and unearned premium 
reserve in total on a gross basis.




                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

               SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                                 (In thousands)









                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                            SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE
                  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                                 (In thousands)








                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           SCHEDULE V - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Years Ended
                               December 31, 1998,
                                  1997 and 1996
                                 (In thousands)





(1)  Deductions include write-offs of amounts determined to be uncollectible,
     unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses and, for real estate, a
     reduction in the valuation allowance for properties sold during the year.







                  THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 SCHEDULE VII - PREDECESSOR AUDITORS' REPORT ON
                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                         Report of Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
USF&G Corporation

We have audited the consolidated statement of financial position of USF&G
Corporation as of December 31, 1997, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each of the years in the
two-year period then ended (not presented separately herein). These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of USF&G Corporation
at December 31, 1997, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                                      /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                      ---------------------
                                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland
February 20, 1998






                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                          
                  SCHEDULE VII - PREDECESSOR AUDITORS' REPORT ON 
                           FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                          
                                          
                          CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the use of our report dated February 20, 1998, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements of USF&G Corporation for the year ended
December 31, 1997 (not included separately herein) included as Schedule VII in
The St. Paul Companies, Inc.'s Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended
December 31, 1998, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Our audits also included the financial statement schedules of USF&G Corporation
listed in Item 14(a) of USF&G Corporation's Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the
year ended December 31, 1997 (not included separately herein).  These schedules
are the responsibility of management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement schedules
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.  

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statements on Form S-8 (SEC File No. 33-15392, No. 33-23446, No. 33-23948, 
No. 33-24220, No. 33-24575, No. 33-26923, No. 33-49273, No. 33-56987, No. 
333-01065, No. 333-22329, No. 333-25203, No. 333-28915, No. 333-48121, No. 
333-50935, No. 333-50937, No. 333-50941, No. 333-50943 and No. 333-67983), 
and Form S-3 (SEC File No. 33-33931, No. 33-50115, No. 33-58491, No. 
333-06465 and No. 333-67139), of The St. Paul Companies, Inc., of our report 
dated February 20, 1998, with respect to the consolidated financial 
statements and schedules of USF&G Corporation (these financial statements and 
schedules are not presented herein) included as Schedule VII in The St. Paul 
Companies, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 


                                   /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                   ---------------------
                                       Ernst & Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland
March 31, 1999




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX*




*    The exhibits are included only with the copies of this report that are
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, copies of the
     exhibits may be obtained from The St. Paul for a reasonable fee by writing
     to the Corporate Secretary, The St. Paul Companies, Inc., 385 Washington
     Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102.

**   These items are not applicable.

***  These items are incorporated by reference as described in Item 14(a)(3) of
     this report.

(1)  Filed herewith.



