
10-K405



                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C.  20549
                                 
                             FORM 10-K
                                 
   X  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
  ---              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
               For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                 
                                OR
                                 
          TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
            SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
        For the transition period from          to
                                      ----------  -----------

                  Commission file number 0-3021
                                 
                   THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC.
      (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
                                 
           Minnesota                         41-0518860
          ----------                        -------------
(State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

  385 Washington Street, Saint Paul, MN             55102        
 --------------------------------------          ------------      
 (Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip Code)

 Registrant's telephone number,                      
      including area code                      612-310-7911
                                               ------------
                                 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                 
Common Stock (without par value)       New York Stock Exchange
                                        London Stock Exchange
     Stock Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
     ---------------------          ------------------------------
        (Title of class)           (Name of each exchange on which
                                             registered)
                                 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                 
                               None.
                                 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.
                           Yes   X   No
                                ---    ----

Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy  or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    (X)

The aggregate market value of the outstanding Common Stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant on March 21, 1997, was
$5,742,457,489.  The number of shares of the Registrant's Common
Stock, without par value, outstanding at March 21, 1997, was
83,516,157.

An Exhibit Index is set forth at page 32 of this report.

                DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                -----------------------------------
Portions of the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated  by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this  report.
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement relating to the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held May 6, 1997, are incorporated by
reference into Parts III and IV of this report.
                                                                  
                                           Page 1 of 32 pages     



                               PART I
                               ------
Item 1.   Business.
- ------    --------

General Description

The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (The St. Paul) is incorporated as a general
business corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota.  The St.
Paul and its subsidiaries comprise one of the oldest insurance
organizations in the United States, dating back to 1853.  The St. Paul is a
management company principally engaged, through its subsidiaries, in
property-liability insurance and reinsurance underwriting.  The St. Paul
also has a presence in the investment banking-asset management industry
through its majority ownership of The John Nuveen Company.  As a management
company, The St. Paul oversees the operations of its subsidiaries and
provides them with capital, management and administrative services.
According to "Fortune" magazine's most recent rankings, The St. Paul was
the 244th largest U. S. corporation, based on total 1995 revenues.  At
March 17, 1997, The St. Paul and its subsidiaries employed approximately
10,200 persons.

In 1996, The St. Paul decided to exit the insurance brokerage business and
to dispose of Minet, its brokerage operations.  Discussions concerning 
a sale are ongoing, but there can be no assurance as to when or 
on what terms such a sale will occur.  Minet had experienced 
operating losses for several years amid highly competitive conditions in 
worldwide brokerage markets.  Minet was classified as a discontinued 
operation in 1996, and results for 1995 and 1994 were restated to be
consistent with the 1996 classification.  Note 13 on page 66 of The St.
Paul's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which contains additional
information relating to The St. Paul's discontinued operations, is
incorporated herein by reference.

The St. Paul's underwriting segment accounted for 96% of consolidated
revenues from continuing operations in 1996.  The investment banking-asset
management segment accounted for the remaining 4% of 1996 revenues.  Note
16 on pages 67 and 68 of The St. Paul's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which discloses revenues, income (loss) before income taxes and
identifiable assets for The St. Paul's industry segments and by geographic
areas for the last three years, is incorporated herein by reference.

The following table lists the sources of The St. Paul's consolidated
revenues from continuing operations for each of the last three years:


                                                   Percentage of
                                               Consolidated Revenues
                                                       
                                             1996       1995       1994
                                             ----       ----       ----
Underwriting:                                          
 Worldwide Insurance Operations
 St. Paul Fire and Marine:                        
   Specialized Commercial                    22.2%      24.3%      23.2%
   Commercial                                15.0       11.6       11.4
   Personal Insurance                        12.4       13.0       14.2
   Medical Services                          10.5       12.0       14.6
                                            -----      -----      -----
       Total Fire and Marine                 60.1       60.9       63.4
 St. Paul International Underwriting          4.6        4.7        3.6
                                            -----      -----      -----
       Total Worldwide Insurance Operations  64.7       65.6       67.0
 St. Paul Re                                 12.8       13.0       11.1
 Net investment income                       13.9       14.5       15.4
 Realized investment gains                    3.6        1.5        0.8
 Other                                        0.8        0.6        0.7
                                            -----      -----      -----
       Total underwriting                    95.8       95.2       95.0
Investment banking-asset management           4.1        4.7        5.0
Parent company and eliminations               0.1        0.1          -
                                            -----      -----      -----
       Total                                100.0%     100.0%     100.0%
                                            =====      =====      =====



UNDERWRITING

Overview.  The St. Paul's primary insurance underwriting business is
conducted through its Worldwide Insurance Operations, which include St.
Paul Fire and Marine (Fire and Marine) and St. Paul International
Underwriting (International).  Fire and Marine, The St. Paul's U.S.
insurance operation, underwrites property and liability insurance and
provides insurance-related products and services to commercial,
professional and individual customers throughout the United States.
International underwrites primary property-liability insurance coverages
outside the United States.  International also includes insurance written
for foreign exposures of U.S.-based corporations and U.S. exposures of
foreign-based companies.  The St. Paul's reinsurance business operates
under the name St. Paul Re, which underwrites reinsurance for leading
property-liability insurance companies worldwide.

The primary sources of the underwriting operations' revenues are premiums
earned from insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, income earned
from the investment portfolio and sales of investments.  According to the
most recent industry statistics published in "Best's Review" with respect
to property-liability insurers doing business in the United States, The St.
Paul's underwriting operations ranked 14th on the basis of 1995 written
premiums.


Principal Departments and Products

The "Underwriting Results by Operation" table on page 22 of The St. Paul's
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which summarizes written premiums,
underwriting results and combined ratios for each of its underwriting
operations for the last three years, is incorporated herein by reference.
The following discussion summarizes the business structure of The St.
Paul's underwriting operations.

WORLDWIDE INSURANCE OPERATIONS

St. Paul Fire and Marine

Fire and Marine underwrites insurance through the following business units:

Specialized Commercial.  Based on written premiums, this is the largest of
Fire and Marine's operations.  Specialized Commercial includes a number of
individual underwriting operations which serve specific commercial customer
segments or provide specialized products and services for targeted industry
groups.  Specialized Commercial, in general, provides coverage for damage
to the customer's property (fire, inland marine and auto), liability for
bodily injury or damage to the property of others (general liability, auto
liability and excess), workers' compensation insurance, and various
professional liability coverages.

Operations serving specific customer segments consist of the following:
Financial and Professional Services provides fidelity and property-
liability coverages for depository institutions, and markets errors and
omissions coverages for lawyers, insurance agents and other nonmedical
professionals, including directors and officers.  Ocean Marine provides a
variety of property and liability insurance related to ocean and inland
waterways traffic, including cargo and hull property protection.  Public
Sector Services markets insurance products and services, including
professional liability insurance, to all levels of government entities.
Surplus Lines underwrites products liability insurance, umbrella and excess
liability coverages, property insurance for high-risk classes of business,
and coverages for unique, sometimes one-of-a-kind risks.  Based on 1995
written premiums, The St. Paul ranked as the eighth-largest U.S.-based
surplus lines underwriter.  Technology underwrites a range of specialized
coverages for information technology firms, including manufacturers of
electronics, synthetics, industrial machinery and medical equipment.

The following operations provide products and services for targeted
industry groups.  Construction provides insurance to medium- and large-size
general building contractors, highway contractors and specialty
contractors.  Large construction projects are insured during the life of
the project.  Surety underwrites surety bonds, primarily for construction
contractors, which guarantee that third parties



will be indemnified against the nonperformance of contractual obligations.
Based on 1995 written premiums, Fire and Marine's surety operation ranked
as the sixth-largest underwriter of surety bonds in the United States.
Manufacturing provides liability insurance and risk management products and
services for large manufacturing operations.  Service Industries provides
large service-related businesses with insurance and risk management
programs.  Businesses served include retailers, wholesalers, insurance
companies, and hospitality and entertainment firms.  National Programs
underwrites coverages for nationwide, multiple-policyholder programs
through a single agency source.  Transportation provides large motor
carriers with customized insurance programs.

Specialized Commercial also includes Fire and Marine's Special Property
operation, which underwrites large property accounts, layered and excess
property programs, large deductible accounts, stop-loss and loss limit
programs and other customized property business.  Fire and Marine's limited
participation in insurance pools and associations, which provide
specialized underwriting skills and risk management services for the
classes of business that they write, is included in Specialized Commercial
results.  These pools and associations serve to increase the underwriting
capacity of participating companies for insurance policies where the
concentration of risk is so high or the amount so large that a single
company could not prudently accept the entire risk.

Commercial.  Fire and Marine's Commercial underwriting operation offers
property and liability insurance to a broad range of small to midsize
commercial enterprises.  Business coverages marketed include package,
general liability, umbrella and excess liability, commercial auto and fire,
inland marine and workers' compensation.  Commercial offers tailored
coverages and insurance products for specific customer groups such as golf
courses, museums, colleges and schools, multipurpose recreational
facilities, manufacturers, wholesalers and processors.  Coverages marketed
to the small commercial customer include the Package Accounts for
Commercial Enterprises (PACE) policy for offices, retailers and family
restaurants.

On July 31, 1996, Fire and Marine acquired Northbrook Holdings, Inc.
(Northbrook) and its three commercial underwriting subsidiaries from
Allstate Insurance Company.  Northbrook underwrites various property-
liability commercial insurance coverages throughout the United States.
Northbrook accounted for $140 million of incremental written premiums in
Fire and Marine's Commercial operations in 1996.

Personal Insurance.  This operation provides a broad portfolio of property
and liability insurance products and services for individuals.  Through a
variety of monoline and package policies, individuals can acquire coverages
to protect personal property such as homes, automobiles and boats, as well
as to provide coverage for personal liability.

Medical Services.  Medical Services underwrites professional liability,
property and general liability insurance for the health care delivery
system.  Products include coverages for health care professionals
(physicians and surgeons, dental professionals and nurses); individual
health care facilities (including hospitals, long-term care facilities and
other facilities such as laboratories); and entire systems (hospital
networks and managed care systems).  Specialized claim and loss control
services are vital components of Medical Services' insurance products and
services.  Fire and Marine is the largest medical liability insurer in the
United States, with premium volume representing approximately 9% of the
U.S. market in 1995 based on premium data published in "Best's Review."

St. Paul International Underwriting

St. Paul International Underwriting includes most primary insurance written
outside the United States.  International has a domestic presence as a
licensed insurance company in several countries in Europe, Africa and Latin
America, and in Canada.  It also includes The St. Paul's participation in
Lloyd's of London as an investor and as the owner of two managing agencies.
International also includes insurance written for foreign operations of
multinational corporations based in the United States, and insurance
written to cover exposures in the United States for foreign-based
companies.  This operation offers a broad range of commercial and personal
lines products and services tailored to meet the unique needs of customers
in each of the indigenous markets which it serves.



ST. PAUL RE

St. Paul Re underwrites reinsurance in both domestic and international
insurance markets (referred to as "assumed reinsurance"). Reinsurance is an
agreement through which one insurance company will transfer some of the
risk it has underwritten to another insurer and will pay a premium in order
to do so.  A large portion of reinsurance is effected automatically under
general reinsurance contracts known as treaties.  In some instances,
reinsurance is effected by negotiation on individual risks, which is
referred to as facultative reinsurance.  St. Paul Re underwrites both
treaty and facultative reinsurance for property, liability, ocean marine,
surety and specialty coverages.  According to data published by the
Reinsurance Association of America, St. Paul Re ranked as the sixth largest
U.S. reinsurance underwriter based on written premium volume for the first
nine months of 1996.

In December 1996, The St. Paul completed a $68.5 million securitized
reinsurance transaction that will provide St. Paul Re with additional
property catastrophe reinsurance capacity of $45.1 million for up to three
years and up to $21.1 million in the subsequent seven years.  A newly
formed, single-purpose reinsurance company called George Town Re was
organized in 1996 to reinsure only St. Paul Re.  Collateral for claims is
provided from the proceeds raised in a private placement.  This reinsurance
allows St. Paul Re to write more catastrophe-exposed property business
without having to seek additional capital and without any impact on The
St. Paul's consolidated balance sheet.

In January 1997, St. Paul Re acquired the right to renew Constitution
Reinsurance Corporation's approximately $20 million book of U.S. casualty
facultative reinsurance business.


Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company and its subsidiaries are
licensed and transact business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.  Fire and Marine's business is broadly
distributed throughout the United States, with a particularly strong market
presence in the Midwestern region.  Five percent or more of Fire and
Marine's 1996 property-liability written premiums were produced in each of
Illinois, California, Minnesota, New York and Texas.

Fire and Marine's business is produced primarily through approximately
6,500 independent insurance agencies and national insurance brokers.  Fire
and Marine maintains 12 regional offices in major cities throughout the
United States and 90 additional service offices in the United States to
respond to the needs of agents, brokers and policyholders.

St. Paul Re produces business from its New York and London headquarters, as
well as from its offices in Miami, Brussels, Munich, Singapore and Tokyo.
St. Paul Re obtains business primarily through the broker or intermediary
market.  Approximately 45% of St. Paul Re's business in 1996 originated
from outside the United States.

St. Paul International Underwriting is headquartered in London and
underwrites insurance through local operations in several markets outside
the United States, including South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Argentina,
Canada, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland, Spain and the United
Kingdom.

A portion of The St. Paul's property-liability insurance written premium
volume originates with insurance brokers.  In the first quarter of 1997, 
two large brokerage firms finalized their merger and two other large 
brokerage firms announced plans to merge.  In January 1997, Aon Corporation
finalized its acquisition of Alexander and Alexander Services Inc.  In 
March 1997, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. announced an agreement to
acquire Johnson & Higgins.  In 1996, approximately 15% of The St. Paul's 
underwriting operations' gross written premium volume originated with these
four brokerage firms.  



Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

General Information.  When claims are made by or against policyholders, any
amounts that The St. Paul's underwriting operations pay or expect to pay
to the claimant are referred to as losses.  The costs of investigating,
resolving and processing these claims are referred to as loss adjustment
expenses (LAE).  The St. Paul establishes reserves that reflect the
estimated unpaid total cost of these two items.  The reserves for unpaid
losses and LAE cover claims that were incurred not only in 1996 but also in
prior years.  They include estimates of the total cost of claims that have
already been reported but not yet settled ("case" reserves), and those that
have been incurred but not yet reported ("IBNR" reserves).  Loss reserves
are not discounted, but they are reduced for estimates of salvage and
subrogation.

Management continually reviews loss reserves, using a variety of
statistical and actuarial techniques to analyze current claim costs,
frequency and severity data, and prevailing economic, social and legal
factors.  Management believes that the reserves currently established for
losses and LAE are adequate to cover their eventual costs.  However, final
claim payments may differ from these reserves, particularly when these
payments may not take place for several years.  Reserves established in
prior years are adjusted as loss experience develops and new information
becomes available.  Adjustments to previously estimated reserves are
reflected in results in the year in which they are made.

Ten-year Development.  The table on page 8 presents a development of net
loss and LAE reserve liabilities and payments for the years 1986 through
1996.  The top line on the table shows the estimated liability for unpaid
losses and LAE, net of reinsurance recoverable, recorded at the balance
sheet date for each of the years indicated.  Loss development data for The
St. Paul's U.K.-based reinsurance and international underwriting operations
are included in the table from 1988 to 1996, and the reinsurance operations
are included on an underwriting year basis.

The upper portion of the table, which shows the re-estimated amount
relating to the previously recorded liability, is based upon experience as
of the end of each succeeding year.  This estimate is either increased or
decreased as further information becomes known about individual claims and
as changes in the trend of claim frequency and severity become apparent.

The "Cumulative redundancy" line on the table for any given year represents
the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year
the reserves were initially established.  For example, the 1986 reserve of
$4,043 million developed up to $4,087 million, or a $44 million deficiency,
by the end of 1987.  By the end of 1996, the 1986 reserve had developed a
redundancy of $30 million.  The changes in the estimate of 1986 loss
reserves were reflected in operations during the past ten years.

In 1993, The St. Paul adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 113, "Accounting and Reporting for
Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts."  This statement
required, among other things, that reinsurance recoverables on unpaid
losses and LAE be shown as an asset, instead of the prior practice of
netting this amount against insurance reserves for balance sheet reporting
purposes.

The middle portion of the table, which includes data for only those periods
impacted since the adoption of SFAS No. 113 (the years 1992 through 1996),
represents a reconciliation between the net reserve liability as shown on
the top line of the table and the gross reserve liability as shown on The
St. Paul's balance sheet.  This portion of the table also presents the
gross re-estimated reserve liability as of the end of the latest re-
estimation period (Dec. 31, 1996) and the related re-estimated reinsurance
recoverable.  The St. Paul did not restate data for years prior to 1992 in
this table for presentation on a gross basis due to the impracticality of
determining such gross data on a reliable basis for its foreign
underwriting operations.



The lower portion of the table presents the cumulative amounts paid with
respect to the previously recorded liability as of the end of each
succeeding year.  For example, as of Dec. 31, 1996, $3,634 million of the
currently estimated $4,013 million of losses and LAE that have been
incurred for the years up to and including 1986 have been paid.  Thus, as
of Dec. 31, 1996, it is estimated that $379 million of incurred losses and
LAE have yet to be paid for the years up to and including 1986.

Caution should be exercised in evaluating the information shown on this
table.  It should be noted that each amount includes the effects of all
changes in amounts for prior periods.  For example, the portion of the
development shown for year-end 1995 reserves that relates to 1986 losses is
included in the cumulative redundancy for the years 1986 through 1995.

In addition, the table presents calendar year data.  It does not present
accident or policy year development data, which some readers may be more
accustomed to analyzing.  The social, economic and legal conditions and
other trends which have had an impact on the changes in the estimated
liability in the past are not necessarily indicative of the future.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned against extrapolating any conclusions
about future results from the information presented in this table.

Note 6 on page 58 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which includes
a reconciliation of beginning and ending loss reserve liabilities for each
of the last three years, is incorporated herein by reference.  Additional
information about The St. Paul's reserves is contained in the "Loss and
Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" and "Environmental and Asbestos Claims"
sections of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 31 through 36
of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which are incorporated herein by
reference.



Analysis of Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense (LAE) Development
(in millions)





Ceded Reinsurance

Through ceded reinsurance, other insurers and reinsurers agree to share
certain risks that The St. Paul's subsidiaries have underwritten.  The
purpose of reinsurance is to limit a ceding insurer's maximum net loss
arising from large risks or catastrophes.  Reinsurance also serves to
increase the direct writing capacity of the ceding insurer.  Amounts
recoverable on ceded losses are recorded as an asset.

With respect to ceded reinsurance, The St. Paul strives to protect its
assets from large individual risk and occurrence losses, and provide its
respective underwriting operations with the capacity necessary to write
large limits on accounts.

The collectibility of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of reinsurers.
The St. Paul's Reinsurance Security Committee, which has established
financial standards to determine qualified, financially secure reinsurers,
guides the placement of ceded reinsurance.  Uncollectible reinsurance
recoverables have not had a material adverse impact on The St. Paul's
results of operations, liquidity or financial position.  Note 14 on page 67
of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which provides a schedule of
ceded reinsurance information, is incorporated herein by reference.

INVESTMENT BANKING-ASSET MANAGEMENT

The John Nuveen Company (Nuveen) is the St. Paul's investment banking-asset
management subsidiary.  The St. Paul and Fire and Marine hold a combined
78% interest in Nuveen.  Nuveen is headquartered in Chicago and maintains
regional sales offices in other cities across the United States.

Through John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, a wholly-owned subsidiary, Nuveen
markets tax-free, open-end and closed-end (exchange-traded) managed funds.
Nuveen also underwrites and trades municipal bonds and tax-free unit
investment trusts (UITs).  Nuveen markets its funds and UITs to individuals
through registered representatives associated with unaffiliated national
and regional broker-dealers and other financial organizations.  Through its
Municipal Finance Department, Nuveen also serves state and local
governments and their authorities by financing community projects through
both negotiated and competitive financings.

Nuveen Advisory Corp. and Nuveen Institutional Advisory Corp., wholly-owned
subsidiaries of John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, provide investment advice
to and administer the business affairs of the Nuveen family of management
investment companies.  Nuveen Institutional Advisory Corp. also provides
investment management services for individuals and public utility nuclear
power plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits trust funds.

In 1996, Nuveen purchased a minority ownership interest in Institutional
Capital Corporation (ICAP), an institutional equity manager.  ICAP served
as subadviser to the Nuveen Growth and Income Stock Fund, which was
introduced in 1996 and generated new assets under management of almost $500
million by year-end.

As the leading sponsor of tax-free UITs, Nuveen currently sponsors trusts
with assets at Dec. 31, 1996 of approximately $14 billion in 3,520
different national, state and insured portfolios.  Nuveen also manages 21
tax-free, open-end mutual funds and money market funds with net assets of
approximately $7 billion in national, state, insured and money market
portfolios.  In addition, Nuveen manages 57 exchange-traded funds with
approximately $25 billion in net assets, which are traded on national stock
exchanges.

In 1996, Nuveen repurchased 3.8 million of its outstanding common shares
for a total cost of $101 million.  The repurchases were proportioned
between The St. Paul and minority shareholders to maintain the combined 78%
ownership interest in Nuveen held by The St. Paul and Fire and Marine.  The
St. Paul received proceeds of $74 million from Nuveen's share repurchases.

In early 1997, Nuveen completed its acquisition of Flagship Resources Inc.,
a tax-exempt mutual fund and money management firm, which added $4.6
billion to assets under management.



INVESTMENTS

Objectives.  The St. Paul's board of directors approves the annual
investment plans of the underwriting subsidiaries.  The primary objectives
of those plans are as follows:

  1)   to maintain a widely diversified fixed maturities portfolio structured
       to maximize investment income while minimizing credit risk through
       investments in high-quality instruments;
  
  2)   to provide for long-term growth in the market value of the investment
       portfolio through investments in certain other investment classes,
       such as equity securities, real estate and venture capital.
  
The St. Paul has had limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments for purposes of hedging against fluctuations in interest rates.
The St. Paul has not participated in the derivatives market for trading or
speculative purposes.

Fixed Maturities.  Fixed maturities constituted 83% of The St. Paul's
investment portfolio at Dec. 31, 1996.  The following table presents
information about the fixed maturities portfolio for the last five years
(dollars in millions).

                                                    Weighted     Weighted
           Amortized     Market     Pretax Net       Average      Average
            Cost at     Value at    Investment       Pretax      After-tax
Year       Year-end     Year-end      Income          Yield        Yield
- ----       --------     --------    ----------       --------    ---------
1996      $11,485.0    $11,944.1        $738.4            7.0%        5.4%
1995        9,715.0     10,372.9         665.4            7.2%        5.6%
1994        8,913.4      8,828.7         626.3            7.4%        5.7%
1993        8,385.1      9,148.0         607.1            7.4%        5.9%
1992        7,731.2      8,236.3         605.2            8.0%        6.5%

The St. Paul determines the mix of its investments in taxable and tax-
exempt securities based on its current and projected tax position and the
relationship between taxable and tax-exempt investment yields.  Fixed
maturity purchases in 1996 were comprised of intermediate-term, investment-
grade taxable and tax-exempt securities.  The acquisition of Northbrook in
1996 added $1.14 billion of fixed maturities to The St. Paul's portfolio,
which accounted for $25 million of incremental investment income in 1996.
The fixed maturities portfolio is carried on The St. Paul's balance sheet
at estimated market value, with unrealized appreciation and depreciation
(net of taxes) recorded in common shareholders' equity.  At Dec. 31, 1996,
pretax unrealized appreciation totaled $459 million.

The fixed maturities portfolio is managed conservatively to provide
reasonable return while limiting exposure to risks.  Approximately 96% of
the fixed maturities portfolio is rated at investment grade levels (BBB or
better).  Nonrated securities comprise the remainder of the portfolio.
Most of these are nonrated municipal bonds which, in management's view,
would be considered of investment-grade quality if rated.

Equities.  Equity securities comprised 6% of The St. Paul's investments at
Dec. 31, 1996, and consist of a diversified portfolio of common stocks,
which are held with the primary objective of achieving capital
appreciation.  This portfolio provided $129 million of pretax realized
investment gains and $16 million of dividend income in 1996, and its
carrying value at year-end included $186 million of unrealized
appreciation.

Real Estate.  The St. Paul's real estate holdings, which comprised 5% of
total investments at Dec. 31, 1996, consist primarily of a diversified
portfolio of commercial office and warehouse buildings geographically
distributed throughout the United States.  This portfolio produced $36
million of pretax investment income in 1996.  The  St. Paul does not have a
portfolio of real estate mortgage investments.



Venture Capital.  Securities of small- to medium-size companies spanning a
variety of industries comprised The St. Paul's investments in venture
capital, which accounted for 4% of total investments at Dec. 31, 1996.
These investments are in the form of limited partnership interests or
direct equity investments.  Sales of venture capital investments in 1996
generated pretax realized investment gains of $86 million.  The carrying
value of venture capital investments at year-end included $292 million of
unrealized appreciation.

Other Investments.  The St. Paul's portfolio also includes short-term
securities and other miscellaneous investments, which in the aggregate
comprised 2% of total investments at Dec. 31, 1996.

Notes 3, 4 and 5 on pages 56 through 58 of the 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders, and the "Investments" section of "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" on pages 36 through 41 of said Annual Report, which provide
additional information about The St. Paul's investment portfolio, are
incorporated herein by reference.


COMPETITION AND REGULATION

The insurance underwriting and investment banking-asset management
industries are both highly competitive.

Underwriting.  The St. Paul's domestic and international underwriting
subsidiaries compete with a large number of other insurers and reinsurers.
In addition, many large commercial customers self-insure their risks or
utilize large deductibles on purchased insurance.  The St. Paul's
subsidiaries compete principally by attempting to offer a combination of
superior products, underwriting expertise and services at a competitive
price.  The combination of products, services, pricing and other methods of
competition varies by line of insurance and by coverage within each line of
insurance.

The St. Paul and its underwriting subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
certain states as an insurance holding company system.  Such regulation
generally provides that transactions between companies within the holding
company system must be fair and equitable.  Transfers of assets among such
affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from underwriting
subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies within the
system may be subject to prior notice to or approval of state regulatory
authorities.  During 1996, The St. Paul received from Fire and Marine
$186.5 million of cash dividends, and a noncash dividend in the form of common
shares of The John Nuveen Company with a carrying value of $30.8 million
and a market value of $75.0 million.  In 1997, up to $477.3 million in cash
dividends can be paid by Fire and Marine to The St. Paul without regulatory
approval.  In addition, any change of control (generally presumed by the
holding company laws to occur with the acquisition of 10% or more of an
insurance holding company's voting securities) of The St. Paul and its
underwriting subsidiaries is subject to such prior approval.

The underwriting subsidiaries are subject to licensing and supervision by
government regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions in which they do
business.  The nature and extent of such regulation vary but generally have
their source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and
administrative powers to state insurance commissioners.  Such regulation,
supervision and administration of the underwriting subsidiaries may relate,
among other things, to the standards of solvency which must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and
limitations on investments; restrictions on the size of risk which may be
insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; regulation of policy forms and premium rates; periodic
examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports
required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other
purposes; requirements regarding reserves for



unearned premiums, losses and other matters; the nature of and limitations
on dividends to policyholders and shareholders; the nature and extent of
required participation in insurance guaranty funds; and the involuntary
assumption of hard-to-place or high-risk insurance business, primarily in
the personal auto and workers' compensation insurance lines.

Loss ratio trends in property-liability insurance underwriting experience
may be improved by, among other things, changing the kinds of coverages
provided by policies, providing loss prevention and risk management
services, increasing premium rates or by a combination of these.  The
freedom of The St. Paul's insurance underwriting subsidiaries to meet
emerging adverse underwriting trends may be slowed, from time to time, by
the effects of those state laws which require prior approval by insurance
regulatory authorities of changes in policy forms and premium rates.  Fire
and Marine does business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.  Many of these jurisdictions require
prior approval of most or all premium rates.

The St. Paul's insurance underwriting business in the United Kingdom is
regulated by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI).  The DTI's
principal objectives are to ensure that insurance companies are responsibly
managed, that they have adequate funds to meet liabilities to policyholders
and that they maintain required levels of solvency.  In Canada, the conduct
of insurance business is regulated under provisions of the Insurance
Companies Act of 1992, which requires insurance companies to maintain
certain levels of capital depending on the type and amount of insurance
policies in force.  The St. Paul is also subject to regulations in the
other countries and jurisdictions in which it writes insurance business.


Investment Banking-Asset Management.  Nuveen is a publicly-traded company
registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed on the New
York Stock Exchange.  One of its subsidiaries is a registered broker and
dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is subject to
regulation by The Securities and Exchange Commission, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and other federal and state
agencies.  Nuveen's other two subsidiaries are registered investment
advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  As such, they are
subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2.   Properties.
- ------    ----------

St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company owns its corporate headquarters
buildings, located at 385 Washington Street and 130 West Sixth Street,
Saint Paul, Minnesota.  These buildings, which are adjacent to one another
and connected by skyway, are also occupied by The St. Paul.  These
buildings consist of approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross floor
space.  St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company also owns a building in
Freeport, Illinois that houses a portion of its personal insurance
operations.

St. Paul International Insurance Company Ltd. owns its building in London,
England which houses its operations.

St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company and its subsidiary, St. Paul
Properties, Inc., own a portfolio of income-producing properties in various
locations across the United States that they have purchased for investment.

The St. Paul's operating subsidiaries rent or lease office space in most
cities in which they operate.

Management considers the currently owned and leased office facilities of
The St. Paul and its subsidiaries adequate for the current and anticipated
future level of operations.



Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
- ------    -----------------

The information set forth in the "Legal Matters" section of Note 11 on page
66 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, the "Legal Matters" section
of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on page 36 of said Annual Report,
and the "Environmental and Asbestos Claims" section of "Management's
Discussion and Analysis" on pages 34 through 36 of said Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference.

In 1990, at the direction of the UK Department of Trade and Industry (DTI),
five insurance underwriting subsidiaries of London United Investments PLC
(LUI) suspended underwriting new insurance business.  At the same time,
four of those subsidiaries, being insolvent, suspended payment of claims
and have since been placed in provisional liquidation.  The fifth
subsidiary, Walbrook Insurance Company, continued paying claims until May
1992 but has now also been placed in provisional insolvent liquidation.
Weavers Underwriting Agency (Weavers), an LUI subsidiary, managed these
insurers.  The St. Paul's insurance brokerage operation, Minet, had
brokered business to and from Weavers for many years.  From 1973 through
1980, The St. Paul's UK-based underwriting operations, now called St. Paul
International Insurance Company Limited (SPI), had accepted business from
Weavers.  A portion of that business was ceded by SPI to reinsurers.
Certain of those reinsurers have challenged the validity of certain
reinsurance contracts relating to the Weavers pool, of which SPI was a
member, in an attempt to avoid liability under those contracts.  SPI and
other members of the Weavers pool are seeking enforcement of the
reinsurance contracts.  Minet may also become the subject of legal
proceedings arising from its role as one of the major brokers for Weavers.
The proceedings are being vigorously contested by The St. Paul and it
recognizes that the final outcome of these proceedings, if adverse to The
St. Paul, may materially impact the results of operations in the period in
which that outcome occurs, but believes it will not have a materially
adverse effect on its liquidity or overall financial position.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter
ended Dec. 31, 1996.

Executive Officers of the Registrant.

All of the following persons are regarded as executive officers of The St.
Paul Companies, Inc. because of their responsibilities and duties as
elected officers of The St. Paul, Fire and Marine, St. Paul International
Underwriting or St. Paul Re.  There are no family relationships between any
of The St. Paul's executive officers and directors, and there are no
arrangements or understandings between any of these officers and any other
person pursuant to which the officer was selected as an officer.  All of
the following officers except Paul J. Liska, Michael J. Conroy, Andrew I.
Douglass, Greg A. Lee and James Hom have held executive positions with The
St. Paul or one or more of its subsidiaries for more than five years, and
have been employees of The St. Paul or a subsidiary for more than five
years.  Paul J. Liska joined The St. Paul in January 1997.  For three years
prior to that date, Mr. Liska held various management positions with
Specialty Foods Corporation, including the position of president and chief
executive officer from January 1996 to January 1997.  For six years prior
to joining Specialty Foods Corporation, Mr. Liska held several executive
positions with Kraft General Foods.  Michael J. Conroy joined The St. Paul
in August 1994.  For three years prior to that date, Mr. Conroy served as
executive vice president and chief administrative officer of The Home
Insurance Company.  For two years prior to that, Mr. Conroy held various
other management positions with The Home Insurance Company.  Andrew I.
Douglass joined The St. Paul in August 1993.  For more than five years
prior to 1993, Mr. Douglass had been Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of Heller International Corporation.  Greg A. Lee joined The St.
Paul in January 1993.  For more than five years prior to that date, Mr. Lee
held various human resources management positions with PepsiCo, Inc. and
its subsidiaries.  James Hom joined The St. Paul in October 1994.  For two
years prior to that date, Mr. Hom served as vice president-corporate claims
and project management for The Home Insurance Company.  Prior to that, Mr.
Hom spent seven years managing insurance consulting groups for two large
public accounting firms.



                           Positions                Term of Office
                           Presently                 and Period of
Name                Age         Held                       Service
- ----                ---    ---------                --------------

Douglas W.          60   Chairman, President      Serving at the
  Leatherdale             and Chief Executive      pleasure of the
                          Officer-The St. Paul     Board from 5-90
                          Companies, Inc.

Patrick A. Thiele   46   Executive Vice           Serving at the
                          President, President     pleasure of the
                          and Chief Executive      Board from 5-96
                          Officer-Worldwide
                          Insurance Operations

Paul J. Liska       41   Executive Vice           Serving at the
                          President and            pleasure of the
                          Chief Financial          Board from 1-97
                          Officer

Michael J. Conroy   55   Executive Vice           Serving at the
                          President and            pleasure of the
                          Chief Administrative     Board from 8-95
                          Officer-Fire and
                          Marine

James F. Duffy      53   President and            Serving at the
                          Chief Executive          pleasure of the
                          Officer-                 Board from 9-93
                          St. Paul Re

Mark L. Pabst       50   President and            Serving at the
                          Chief Executive          pleasure of the
                          Officer-St. Paul         Board from 2-95
                          International
                          Underwriting

Susan J. Albrecht   50   President-               Serving at the
                          Major Markets-           pleasure of the
                          Fire and Marine          Board from 12-94

Stephen J. Klingel  46   President-               Serving at the
                          Personal                 pleasure of the
                          Insurance-               Board from 8-95
                          Fire and Marine

Joseph B. Nardi     52   President-               Serving at the
                          Medical Services-        pleasure of the
                          Fire and Marine          Board from 8-82

Janet R. Nelson     47   President-               Serving at the
                          Custom Markets-          pleasure of the
                          Fire and Marine          Board from 5-94

James A. Schulte    47   President-               Serving at the
                          Commercial-              pleasure of the
                          Fire and Marine          Board from 10-93


Howard E. Dalton    59   Senior Vice              Serving at the
                          President and            pleasure of the
                          Chief Accounting         Board from 9-87
                          Officer

Andrew I. Douglass  53   Senior Vice              Serving at the
                          President and            pleasure of the
                          General Counsel          Board from 8-93

James Hom           41   Senior Vice              Serving at the
                          President-               pleasure of the
                          Corporate Planning       Board from 10-94

Greg A. Lee         47   Senior Vice              Serving at the
                          President-               pleasure of the
                          Human Resources          Board from 1-93

Bruce A. Backberg   48   Vice President           Serving at the
                          and Corporate            pleasure of the
                          Secretary                Board from 5-92

James L. Boudreau   61   Vice President           Serving at the
                          and Treasurer            pleasure of the
                                                   Board from 11-90


                              Part II
                              -------

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and
- ------    Related Stockholder Matters.
          ---------------------------

The "Stock Trading" and "Stock Price and Dividend Rate" portions of the
"Shareholder Information" section on the inside back cover of The St.
Paul's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by
reference.

As partial consideration for the acquisition of the economic interest of
Gravett & Tilling (Holdings) Limited, a United Kingdom corporation, The St.
Paul, on Dec. 31, 1996, issued 28,748 shares of its common stock in an
exempt transaction pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended (the "Act").  As part of this acquisition, The St. Paul, pursuant
to the November 13, 1996 acquisition agreement, is also to issue, to the 
eleven former shareholders of Gravett & Tilling (Holdings) Limited,
an additional number of shares, having a market value of
approximately one million pounds sterling, on Dec. 31, 1997.  In
transactions that are also exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of
the Act, during 1996 The St. Paul also entered into Deferred Stock Grant 
Agreements with seven non-U.S. based employees pursuant to which The St. Paul is
to issue a total of 7,500 shares of common stock to the employees if they
remain employed with The St. Paul for various periods of time.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
- ------    -----------------------

The "Eleven-year Summary of Selected Financial Data" section on pages 46
and 47 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

The "Management's Discussion and Analysis" section on pages 16 to 45 of the
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- ------    -------------------------------------------

The financial statements and supplementary data on pages 48 to 69 of the
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
- ------    Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
          -----------------------------------

None.

                             Part III
                             --------

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

The "Election of Directors - Nominees for Directors" section, which
provides information regarding The St. Paul's directors, on pages 4 to 6 of
The St. Paul's Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of
shareholders to be held May 6, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference.
Information regarding The St. Paul's executive officers is included in Part
I of this report.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
- -------   ----------------------

The "Executive Compensation" section on pages 17 to 27 and the "Election of
Directors - Board of Directors Compensation" section on pages 7 to 9 of the
Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
May 6, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
- -------   Owners and Management.
          ---------------------

The "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management"
section on pages 28 to 30 of the Proxy Statement relating to the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held May 6, 1997, are incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------

None.

                            Part IV
                            -------

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Financial Statement
- -------   Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.
          ---------------------------------

(a)  Filed documents.  The following documents are filed as part of this
     report:

     1.   Financial Statements.
          Incorporated by reference into Part II of this report:
               The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries:
               Consolidated Statements of Income - Years Ended
                 December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
               Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1996
                 and 1995
               Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
                 Equity - Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended
                 December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


   
          2.   Financial Statement Schedules.
               The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries:

                    Independent Auditors' Report on Financial
                      Statement Schedules
               I.   Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in
                    Related Parties
               II.  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
               III. Supplementary Insurance Information
               IV.  Reinsurance
               V.   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

               
               All other schedules are omitted because they are not
               applicable, not required, or the information is included
               elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes
               thereto.

          3.   Exhibits.  An Exhibit Index is set forth at page 32 of this
                report.
   
              (3) The current articles of incorporation of The St.
                  Paul are incorporated herein by reference to Form 10-Q
                  for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

                  The current bylaws of The Paul are incorporated
                  herein by reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  March 31, 1994.

              (4) A specimen certificate of The St. Paul's common
                  stock is incorporated herein by reference to the Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

                  The Amended and Restated Shareholder Protection
                  Rights Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

                  There are no long-term debt instruments in which
                  the total amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the
                  total assets of The St. Paul and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  The St. Paul agrees to furnish a copy
                  of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.

             (10) The Deferred Management Incentive Awards Plan.

                  The Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.

                  The Deferred Stock Grant Agreement with Mr. Mark
                  L. Pabst is incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1995.

                  The Directors' Charitable Award Program is
                  incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994.

                  The Relocation Loan Payback Agreement with Mr.
                  James F. Duffy is incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1994.

                  The Pension Service Agreement with Mr. Andrew I.
                  Douglass is incorporated by reference to the Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1994.

                  The 1994 Stock Incentive Plan is incorporated by
                  reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994.



                  The 1994 Annual Incentive Plan is incorporated by
                  reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994.
   
                  The Long-Term Incentive Plan is incorporated by
                  reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994.

                  The Non-Employee Director Stock Retainer Plan is
                  incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1991.

                  The summary description of the Outside Directors'
                  Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
                  Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to
                  be held May 7, 1996.

                  The 1988 Stock Option Plan as in effect for
                  options granted prior to June 1994, as amended, is
                  incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1990.

                  The Restricted Stock Award Plan, as amended, is
                  incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1989.

                  The Benefit Equalization Plan and Special
                  Severance Policy are incorporated by reference to Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1987.

                  The Directors' Deferred Compensation Agreement -
                  Prime Rate and the Directors' Deferred Compensation
                  Agreement - Phantom Stock are incorporated by reference to
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982.

                  The Alternate Long-Term Incentive Plan is
                  incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  March 31, 1983.

                  The summary descriptions of the Annual Incentive
                  Plan (as in effect prior to 1994), Executive Post-Retirement
                  Life Insurance Plan and Executive Excess Long-Term
                  Disability Plan are incorporated by reference to the Proxy
                  Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders
                  which was held on May 5, 1992.

             (11) A statement regarding the computation of per share
                  earnings.

             (12) A statement regarding the computation of the ratio
                  of earnings to fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to
                  combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends.



             (13) The 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.  The
                  following portions of such annual report, representing those
                  portions expressly incorporated by reference in this report
                  on Form 10-K, are filed as an exhibit to this report:

                                               
               Portions of Annual Report         Items in
                  for the year ended               this
                  December 31, 1996               report
               -------------------------        ----------
                                               
               Consolidated Financial           
                Statements                        Item 8
               Notes to Consolidated           
                Financial Statements              Item 1, 8
               Independent Auditors' Report       Item 8
               Management's Discussion and       
                Analysis                          Item 1, 3, 7
               "Stock Trading" and "Stock      
                 Price and Dividend Rate"       
                 portions of "Shareholder         
                 Information"                     Item 5
               Eleven-year Summary of          
                Selected Financial Data           Item 6

               The complete 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is
               furnished to the Commission in a paper format pursuant to
               Rule 14a-3(c).

              (21) List of subsidiaries of The St. Paul Companies,
                   Inc.
 
              (23) Consent of independent auditors to incorporation
                   by reference of certain reports into Registration Statements
                   on Form S-8 (SEC File No. 2-69894, No. 33-15392, No. 33-
                   20516, No. 33-23446, No. 33-23948, No. 33-24220, No. 33-
                   24575, No. 33-26923, No. 33-49273, No. 33-56987, No. 333-
                   01065 and No. 333-22329) and Form  S-3 (SEC File No. 33-
                   33931, No. 33-50115, No. 33-58491 and No. 333-06456).

              (24) Power of attorney.

              (27) Financial data schedule.


(b)       Reports on Form 8-K.

          A Form 8-K Current Report dated October 1, 1996, was filed
          relating to the announcement of the anticipated impact of weather
          related losses on The St. Paul's third-quarter 1996 operating
          results.

          A Form 8-K Current Report dated October 29, 1996 was filed
          relating to the announcement of The St. Paul's financial results
          for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.

          A Form 8-K Current Report dated January 27, 1997, was filed
          relating to the announcement of The St. Paul's financial results
          for the year ended December 31, 1996.

          A Form 8-K Current Report dated February 7, 1997, was filed
          relating to the announcement of The St. Paul's share repurchase
          and stock ownership plans.



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, The St. Paul Companies, Inc. has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

                                     THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC.
                                     ---------------------------
                                            (Registrant)
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Bruce A. Backberg
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Bruce A. Backberg
                                     Vice President and
                                       Corporate Secretary

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of The St.
Paul Companies, Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Douglas W. Leatherdale
      --------------                 --------------------------  
                                     Douglas W. Leatherdale,
                                     Director, Chairman of the
                                     Board, President and Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Patrick A. Thiele
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Patrick A. Thiele, Director,
                                     Executive Vice President,
                                     President and Chief
                                     Executive Officer -
                                     Worldwide Insurance
                                     Operations
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Paul J. Liska
      --------------                 -----------------
                                     Paul J. Liska, Executive
                                     Vice President and Chief
                                     Financial Officer
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Howard E. Dalton
      --------------                 --------------------
                                     Howard E. Dalton, Senior
                                     Vice President and Chief
                                     Accounting Officer
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Michael R. Bonsignore
      --------------                 -------------------------
                                     Michael R. Bonsignore*,
                                     Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ John H. Dasburg
      --------------                 -------------------
                                     John H. Dasburg*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ W. John Driscoll
      --------------                 --------------------
                                     W. John Driscoll*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Pierson M. Grieve
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Pierson M. Grieve*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Ronald James
      --------------                 ----------------
                                     Ronald James*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ David G. John
      --------------                 -----------------
                                     David G. John*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997            By   /s/ William H. Kling
      --------------                 ---------------------       
                                     William H. Kling*, Director

                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Bruce K. MacLaury
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Bruce K. MacLaury*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Glen D. Nelson
      --------------                 ------------------
                                     Glen D. Nelson*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Anita M. Pampusch
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Anita M. Pampusch*, Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           By    /s/ Gordon M. Sprenger
      --------------                 ----------------------
                                     Gordon M. Sprenger*,
                                     Director
                                     
Date  March 25, 1997           *By   /s/ Bruce A. Backberg
      --------------                 ---------------------
                                     Bruce A. Backberg, Attorney-
                                     in-fact



       INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                     


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
The St. Paul Companies, Inc.:

Under date of January 27, 1997, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1996, as contained in the 1996 annual report to
shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our report
thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for
the year 1996.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the related
financial statement schedules listed in the index in Item 14(a) 2. of said
Form 10-K.  These financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statement schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.



Minneapolis, Minnesota                  /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
January 27, 1997                        -------------------------
                                            KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


               THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
                    SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS
                 OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                             December 31, 1996
                              (In thousands)

                                     -------------------------------------
                                                               Amount at
                                                              which shown
                                                                in the
                                          Cost*     Value*   balance sheet
                                     -----------   ---------  ------------
Type of investment:

Fixed maturities:
- ----------------
United States Government and
 government agencies and
 authorities                        $ 2,401,760  $ 2,444,966 $ 2,444,966
States, municipalities and
 political subdivisions               4,992,485    5,287,966   5,287,966
Foreign governments                   1,077,869    1,125,606   1,125,606
Corporate securities                  1,546,721    1,586,262   1,586,262
Mortgage-backed securities            1,466,168    1,499,285   1,499,285
                                     ----------   ----------  ----------
   Total fixed maturities            11,485,003   11,944,085  11,944,085
                                     ----------   ==========  ----------

Equity securities:
- -----------------
Common stocks:
Public utilities                         12,213       15,902      15,902
Banks, trusts and insurance
  companies                              65,639       87,155      87,155
Industrial, miscellaneous and
  all other                             544,028      705,238     705,238
                                     ----------   ----------  ----------
   Total equity securities              621,880      808,295     808,295
                                     ----------   ----------  ----------
Venture capital                         293,837   $  586,222     586,222
                                     ----------   ==========  ----------
Real estate                             707,910**                693,910
Other investments                        43,311                   43,311
Short-term investments                  289,793                  289,793
                                     ----------               ----------
   Total investments                $13,441,734              $14,365,616
                                     ==========               ==========


*   See Notes 1, 3, 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements
    included in The St. Paul's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.

**  The cost of real estate represents the cost of properties before
    valuation provisions.  (See Schedule V on page 31).



                THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)
                                     
        SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                    CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
                        December 31, 1996 and 1995
                              (In thousands)

Assets:                                              1996          1995
                                                     ----          ----
Investment in subsidiaries                     $4,533,106    $4,514,440
Investments:
 Fixed maturities                                 162,895       138,552
 Equity securities                                 40,424        52,235
 Short-term investments                            25,271        40,130
Deferred income taxes                             453,560       136,427
Other assets                                      102,280        89,283
                                                ---------     ---------
   Total assets                                $5,317,536    $4,971,067
                                                =========     =========

Liabilities:

Debt                                           $1,090,477    $1,074,657
Dividends payable to shareholders                  36,579        33,559
Other liabilities                                 186,660       132,730
                                                ---------     ---------
   Total liabilities                            1,313,716     1,240,946
                                                ---------     ---------

Shareholders' Equity:
 Preferred:
   Convertible preferred stock                    142,131       144,165
   Guaranteed obligation - PSOP                  (126,068)     (133,293)
                                                ---------     ---------
     Total preferred shareholders' equity          16,063        10,872
                                                ---------     ---------

 Common:
   Common stock, authorized 240,000 shares;
     issued 83,198 shares (83,976 in 1995)        475,710       460,458
   Retained earnings                            2,935,928     2,704,075
   Guaranteed obligation - ESOP                   (20,353)      (32,294)
   Unrealized appreciation of investments         616,968       627,791
   Unrealized loss on
    foreign currency translation                  (20,496)      (40,781)
                                                ---------     ---------
     Total common shareholders' equity          3,987,757     3,719,249
                                                ---------     ---------
     Total shareholders' equity                 4,003,820     3,730,121
                                                ---------     ---------
     Total liabilities and
      shareholders' equity                     $5,317,536    $4,971,067
                                                =========     =========

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.


                THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)
                                     
        SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                 CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME INFORMATION
               Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                              (In thousands)


                                        1996         1995        1994
                                        ----         ----        ----
Revenues:
 Net investment income               $ 12,695     $ 9,165      $ 4,470
 Realized investment gains              8,810       8,800        4,240
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Total revenues                      21,505      17,965        8,710
                                      -------     -------      -------
Expenses:
 Interest expense                      75,409      63,744       48,457
 Administrative and other              29,228      29,476       21,312
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Total expenses                     104,637      93,220       69,769
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Loss before
     income tax benefit               (83,132)    (75,255)     (61,059)
Income tax benefit                    (46,462)    (18,941)     (22,608)
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Net loss from continuing
     operations- parent only          (36,670)    (56,314)     (38,451)
                                      -------     -------      -------
Income tax benefit - discontinued
 operations                          (291,493)          -            -
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Net income (loss) - parent only    254,823     (56,314)     (38,451)

Equity in net income
 of subsidiaries and
 loss from discontinued operations    195,276     577,523      481,279
                                      -------     -------      -------
   Consolidated net income           $450,099    $521,209     $442,828
                                      =======     =======      =======

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.


                THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)
                                     
        SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
               CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
               Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                              (In thousands)


                                            1996        1995       1994
                                            ----        ----       ----
Operating Activities:
 Net income (loss)                       $ 254,823  $ (56,314) $ (38,451)
 Cash dividends from subsidiaries          200,648    206,118    210,523
 Tax payments from subsidiaries             93,928    159,216    104,509
 State and federal income tax payments     (70,000)  (103,000)   (84,910)
 Adjustments to reconcile net
  loss to net cash provided by
  operating activities:
   Tax benefit - discontinued
     operations                           (291,493)         -          -
   Deferred tax benefit -operations        (21,891)    (1,077)   (19,660)
   Realized investment gains                (8,810)    (8,800)    (4,240)
   Other                                    (3,951)      (110)     1,897
                                           -------    -------    -------
   Cash provided by operating activities   153,254    196,033    169,668
                                           -------    -------    -------
Investing Activities:
 Purchases of investments                 (104,322)  (218,525)   (93,601)
 Proceeds from sales and maturities
   of investments                          109,958     93,919     84,337
 Capital contributions to
   subsidiaries                            (55,922)  (223,623)   (53,466)
 Acquisitions                                    -          -    (10,643)
 Other                                        (268)      (870)        14
                                           -------    -------    -------
   Cash used in
     investing activities                  (50,554)  (349,099)   (73,359)
                                           -------    -------    -------
Financing Activities:
 Dividends paid to shareholders           (155,268)  (144,662)  (136,062)
 Proceeds from issuance of debt             53,000    455,028     87,721
 Repayment of debt                         (17,711)  (125,446)   (20,350)
 Repurchase of common shares               (74,217)   (41,714)   (34,150)
 Proceeds from Nuveen stock repurchase      73,966          -          -
 Stock options exercised and other          17,530      9,860      6,532
                                           -------    -------    -------
   Cash provided by
     (used in) financing activities       (102,700)   153,066    (96,309)
                                           -------    -------    -------
Change in cash                                   -          -          -
Cash at beginning of year                        -          -          -
                                           -------    -------    -------
   Cash at end of year                   $       -   $      -   $      -
                                           =======    =======    =======

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.


                THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. (Parent Only)
                                     
        SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                 NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                                     
                                     
                                     
  1. The accompanying condensed financial information should be read in
     conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes
     included in The St. Paul's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.


  2. Debt consists of the following (in thousands):

                                             December 31,
                                   ---------------------------
                                            1996         1995
                                            ----         ----
     Medium-term notes                  $  430,427   $ 397,433
     Convertible
       subordinated debentures (1)         262,026     262,026
     Commercial paper                      131,610     149,629
     Guaranteed PSOP debt (1)              126,068     133,293
     9-3/8% notes                           99,994      99,982
     Intercompany loan (1)                  20,000           -
     Guaranteed ESOP debt                   13,890      25,001
     Guaranteed ESOP debt (1)                6,462       7,293
                                         ---------   ---------
      Total debt                        $1,090,477  $1,074,657
                                         =========   =========


     (1)  Eliminated in consolidation.

     See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in the
     1996 Annual Report to Shareholders for further information on debt
     outstanding at Dec. 31, 1996.

     The amount of debt, other than debt eliminated in consolidation, that
     becomes due during each of the next five years is as follows: 1997,
     $111.1 million; 1998, $27.8 million; 1999, $20.0 million; 2000, $144.8
     million; and 2001, $45.5 million.




               THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
             SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                              (In thousands)


                                             At December 31,
                              ---------------------------------------------
                                           Gross loss
                               Deferred     and loss              Other policy 
                                policy     adjustment     Gross    claims and
                             acquisition    expense      unearned   benefits
                               expenses     reserves     premiums   payable
                              ---------  -------------  ---------  ----------
- ----
Property-Liability
 Insurance Underwriting:
 Worldwide Insurance Operations:
 Fire and Marine:
   Specialized Commercial      $120,222     $3,345,102    $719,969          -
   Commercial                    78,702      2,629,381     483,135          -
   Personal Insurance            59,803        483,414     303,658          -
   Medical Services              60,087      2,053,221     650,199          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total Fire and Marine      318,814      8,511,118   2,156,961          -
 International                   17,700      1,122,397     138,029          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total Worldwide Insurance  336,514      9,633,515   2,294,990
 St. Paul Re                     65,254      2,039,633     271,561          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total                     $401,768    $11,673,148  $2,566,551          -
                                =======     ==========   =========     ======

- ----
Property-Liability
Insurance Underwriting:
 Worldwide Insurance Operations:
 Fire and Marine:
   Specialized Commercial      $119,150    $ 3,377,431  $  753,479          -
   Commercial                    60,561      1,399,928     290,475          -
   Personal Insurance            58,153        405,266     286,121          -
   Medical Services              58,777      2,129,471     647,878          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total Fire and Marine      296,641      7,312,096   1,977,953          -
 International                   18,277      1,091,131     133,699          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total Worldwide Insurance  314,918      8,403,227   2,111,652
 St. Paul Re                     57,256      1,843,843     249,376          -
                                -------     ----------   ---------     ------
     Total                     $372,174    $10,247,070  $2,361,028          -
                                =======     ==========   =========     ======



               THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
             SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                              (In thousands)

                                     Insurance
                                       losses  Amortization
                             Net     and loss   of policy     Other   
                Premiums  investment adjustment acquisition operating Premiums
                  earned    income    expenses   expenses   expenses   written
               ---------   --------  ---------  ----------   -------  --------
Worldwide 
 Insurance
 Operations:
 Fire and Marine:
  Specialized
   Commercial $1,272,561          -   $826,670    $303,206   $97,935  $1,278,814
  Commercial     862,092          -    637,693     204,904    83,957     778,487
  Personal
   Insurance     707,299          -    694,551     156,109    58,456     724,616
  Medical
   Services      601,679          -    409,124     100,086    38,680     585,876
                ---------   -------  ---------     -------   -------     -------
   Total Fire
    and Marine 3,443,631          -  2,568,038     764,305   279,028   3,367,793
 International   268,830          -    196,948      47,308    46,360     267,805
               ---------    -------  ---------     -------   -------   ---------
    Total
    Worldwide
    Insurance  3,712,461          -  2,764,986     811,613   325,388   3,635,598
St. Paul Re      735,787          -    553,315     163,843    55,327     760,524
Net investment
  income               -   $794,901          -           -         -           -
Other                  -          -          -           -   131,761           -
               ---------    -------  ---------     -------   -------   ---------
    Total     $4,448,248   $794,901 $3,318,301    $975,456  $512,476  $4,396,122
               =========    =======  =========     =======   =======   =========

- ----
Worldwide Insurance
 Operations:
 Fire and Marine:
  Specialized
   Commercial $1,230,790          - $  961,801    $298,765 $  98,328  $1,304,062
  Commercial     587,016          -    378,754     155,125    57,580     617,767
  Personal
   Insurance     655,347          -    486,275     145,547    56,524     673,347
  Medical
   Services      605,468          -    387,716      97,695    44,557     673,980
               ---------    -------  ---------     -------   -------   ---------
   Total Fire
    and Marine 3,078,621          -  2,214,546     697,132   256,989   3,269,156
 International   237,727          -    188,728      27,326    44,857     260,582
               ---------    -------  ---------     -------   -------   ---------
    Total
    Worldwide
    Insurance  3,316,348          -  2,403,274     724,458   301,846   3,529,738
St. Paul Re      654,981          -    461,033     132,521    56,936     713,475
Net investment
  income               -   $731,096          -           -         -           -
Other                  -          -          -           -    82,130           -
               ---------    -------  ---------     -------   -------   ---------
    Total     $3,971,329  $731,096  $2,864,307    $856,979  $440,912  $4,243,213
               =========    =======  =========     =======   =======   =========

- ----
Worldwide Insurance
 Operations:
 Fire and Marine:
  Specialized
   Commercial $1,015,397         - $   764,760    $252,577 $  88,046  $1,085,514
  Commercial     498,543         -     365,555     137,661    59,079     529,741
  Personal 
   Insurance     619,414         -     455,879     138,512    51,338     635,557
  Medical
   Services      638,413         -     369,571     109,517    38,848     689,716
               ---------   -------   ---------     -------   -------   ---------
   Total Fire
    and Marine 2,771,767         -   1,955,765     638,267   237,311   2,940,528
 International   156,946         -     133,920      25,398    28,797     169,176
               ---------   -------   ---------     -------   -------   ---------
    Total
    Worldwide
    Insurance  2,928,713         -   2,089,685     663,665   266,108   3,109,704
St. Paul Re      483,368         -     372,013      90,281    42,877     513,322
Net investment
  income               -  $674,818           -           -         -           -
Other                  -         -           -           -    66,581           -
               ---------   -------   ---------     -------   -------  ---------
    Total     $3,412,081  $674,818  $2,461,698    $753,946  $375,566  $3,623,026
               =========   =======   =========     =======   =======   =========



               THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
                         SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE
               Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                               (In thousands)
                                     


                                                               Percentage
Property-liability             Ceded to   Assumed              of amount
insurance           Gross       other    from other     Net    assumed to
premiums earned:    amount    companies  companies     amount     net
                  ---------    --------  ---------    -------- ---------


   1996          $4,001,384    528,409     975,273  4,448,248     21.9%
                  =========    =======     =======  =========


   1995          $3,678,190    641,351     934,490  3,971,329     23.5%
                  =========    =======     =======  =========


   1994          $3,296,215    594,121     709,987  3,412,081     20.8%
                  =========    =======     =======  =========






               THE ST. PAUL COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
               SCHEDULE V - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                              (In thousands)


                                       Additions
                                  ---------------------
                      Balance at  Charged to Charged to               Balance
                      beginning   costs and    other                   at end
Description            of year     expenses   accounts  Deductions(1) of year
- -----------           ----------  ---------- ---------- ----------   --------
- ----
Real estate valuation
 adjustment              $34,000           -         -      20,000      14,000
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
Allowance for
 uncollectible:
   Agency loans           $1,664           -         -           -       1,664
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
  Premiums receivable
   from underwriting
    activities           $18,918       5,073         -       2,832      21,159
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
 Reinsurance             $21,531       1,150         -           -      22,681
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
- ----
Real estate valuation
 adjustment              $24,000      10,000         -           -      34,000
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
Allowance for
 uncollectible:
 Agency loans            $ 1,664           -         -           -       1,664
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
 Premiums receivable
  from underwriting
   activities            $20,938       4,192         -       6,212      18,918
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
 Reinsurance             $25,823           -         -       4,292      21,531
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======

- ----
Real estate valuation
 adjustment              $14,000      10,000         -           -      24,000
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
Allowance for
 uncollectible:
   Agency loans          $ 4,750           -         -       3,086       1,664
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
 Premiums receivable
  from underwriting
   activities            $22,218       2,373         -       3,653      20,938
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======
 Reinsurance             $26,202         492         -         871      25,823
                          ======      ======     =====      ======      ======



(1) Deductions include write-offs of amounts determined to be
    uncollectible, unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses and, for
    real estate, a reduction in the valuation allowance for properties sold
    during the year.


                              EXHIBIT INDEX*
                              -------------                  How
Exhibit                                                     Filed

(2) Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement,
    liquidation, or succession**..............................
(3) Articles of incorporation and by-laws***..................
(4) Instruments defining the rights of security holders,
    including indentures
    (a) Specimen Common Stock Certificate***..................
    (b) Amended and Restated Shareholder
        Protection Rights Agreement***........................
(9) Voting trust agreements**.................................
(10) Material contracts
    (a) The Deferred Management Incentive Awards Plan.........(1)
    (b) The Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan.............(1)
    (c) The Deferred Stock Grant Agreement
         with Mr. Mark L. Pabst***............................
    (d) The Directors' Charitable Award Program***............
    (e) Relocation Loan Payback Agreement
         with Mr. James F. Duffy***...........................
    (f) Pension Service Agreement
         with Mr. Andrew I. Douglass***.......................
    (g) 1994 Stock Incentive Plan***..........................
    (h) 1994 Annual Incentive Plan***.........................
    (i) Long-Term Incentive Plan***...........................
    (j) Non-Employee Director Stock Retainer Plan***..........
    (k) Outside Directors' Retirement Plan***.................
    (l) Amended 1988 Stock Option Plan***.....................
    (m) Restricted Stock Award Plan***........................
    (n) Benefit Equalization Plan***..........................
    (o) Special Severance Policy***...........................
    (p) Directors' Deferred Compensation Agreement -
         Prime Rate***........................................
    (q) Directors' Deferred Compensation Agreement -
         Phantom Stock***.....................................
    (r) Alternative Long-Term Incentive Plan***...............
    (s) Annual Incentive Plan***..............................
    (t) Executive Post-Retirement Life Insurance Plan***......
    (u) Executive Excess Long-Term Disability Plan***.........
 (11) Statements re computation of per share earnings.........(1)
 (12) Statements re computation of ratios.....................(1)
 (13) Annual report to security holders.......................(1)
 (16) Letter re change in certifying accountant**.............
 (18) Letter re change in accounting principles**.............
 (21) Subsidiaries of the Registrant..........................(1)
 (22) Published report regarding matters submitted
       to vote of security holders**..........................
 (23) Consent of experts and counsel..........................(1)
 (24) Power of attorney.......................................(1)
 (27) Financial data schedule.................................(1)
 (99) Additional exhibits**

*  The exhibits are included only with the copies of this
   report that are filed with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission.  However, copies of the exhibits may be obtained
   from The St. Paul for a reasonable fee by writing to the
   Corporate Secretary, The St. Paul Companies, Inc., 385
   Washington Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102.

** These items are not applicable.

***  These items are incorporated by reference as described in
     Item 14(a)(3) of this report.

(1)  Filed electronically.



