
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 FOR 1994



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ________________________

                                   FORM 10-K

              [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                                       OR
              [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ____ TO ____
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9210
                                __________________

                        OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (310) 208-8800
                                __________________

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:


        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                  YES  X   NO 
                                      ---     ---

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
                                __________________

   At February 28, 1995, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $6.3 billion, based on the
New York Stock Exchange composite tape closing price on February 28, 1995.
   At February 28, 1995, there were 317,339,166 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the registrant's Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
1994, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.
   Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement filed in connection
with its April 28, 1995, Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III.

================================================================================

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                      (i)

                                    PART I

ITEMS 1 AND 2  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES

GENERAL

         Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation
("Occidental"), explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and
natural gas; engages in interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and
marketing; and manufactures and markets a variety of basic chemicals,
petrochemicals and polymers and plastics. Occidental conducts its principal
operations through three subsidiaries: Occidental Oil and Gas Corporation,
MidCon Corp. and Occidental Chemical Corporation. Occidental's executive
offices are located at 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90024;
telephone (310) 208-8800.

         Occidental was organized in April 1986 and, as the result of a
reorganization effective May 21, 1986, became the successor to a California
corporation of the same name organized in 1920. As used herein, the term
"Occidental" refers to Occidental alone or together with one or more of its
subsidiaries.

         Occidental's principal businesses constitute three industry segments,
the operations of which are described below. For information with respect to
the revenues, net income and assets of Occidental's industry segments and of
its operations in various geographic areas for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1994, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Occidental ("Consolidated Financial Statements"), which are
included in Occidental's 1994 Annual Report ("1994 Annual Report") and are
incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report, and the information
appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis," which is 
included in the 1994 Annual Report and is incorporated by reference in Item 7 
of this report.  Throughout this report, portions of the 1994 Annual Report 
are incorporated by reference.  These portions of the 1994 Annual Report are 
included as Exhibit 13 to this report.

OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS

Exploration and Production

         GENERAL Through Occidental Oil and Gas Corporation and its
subsidiaries, and its approximate 30 percent equity interest in Canadian
Occidental Petroleum Ltd. ("CanadianOxy"), Occidental produces or participates
in the production of crude oil, condensate and natural gas in the United
States, Canada, Colombia, the Congo, Ecuador, the Dutch and United Kingdom
sectors of the North Sea, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Qatar, Russia, Venezuela and
Yemen. Occidental is continuing its development programs for certain existing
fields in certain of these countries and also is conducting exploration
activities in several of these countries as well as in other countries.
         In 1994, Occidental again added more oil to its reserves than it
produced, continuing its record of total reserve increases.  Occidental's
consolidated worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude
oil (not including those of CanadianOxy) were 918 million barrels at year-end
1994, compared with 793 million barrels at year-end 1993. Domestic reserves of
crude oil were 218 million barrels at year-end 1994, compared with 195 million
barrels at year-end 1993, while international crude oil reserves increased by
17 percent to 700 million barrels from 598 million barrels at year-end 1993.
International net crude oil reserve additions of 190 million barrels, mainly in
Venezuela, Qatar and the Congo, more than replaced Occidental's production of 
65 million barrels. The calculation of reserve additions does not take into 
account sales of reserves. Worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped 
reserves of natural gas were approximately 2.3 trillion cubic feet ("Tcf") 
at year-end 1994, with 2.0 Tcf attributable to domestic operations. 
Worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped natural gas


                                     -1-

reserves were about 2.1 Tcf in the previous year. Discoveries of substantial
quantities of gas and oil in the Philippines and of gas and condensate in
Malaysia are not reflected in Occidental's proved reserves. Please note that
Occidental's crude oil reserves include condensate and natural gas liquids,
except for the United States, where crude oil reserves include only condensate.
In addition, natural gas reserves in the United States are presented on a
wet-gas basis (including leasehold natural gas liquids reserves), whereas
natural gas reserves in other locations exclude natural gas liquids. The
reserves are stated after applicable royalties. See the information appearing
under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas Information" incorporated by 
reference in Item 8 of this report.
         As a producer of crude oil and natural gas, Occidental competes with
numerous other producers, as well as with nonpetroleum energy producers. Crude
oil and natural gas are commodities that are sensitive to prevailing conditions
of supply and demand and generally are sold at posted or contract prices. Among
the methods that Occidental uses to compete are the acquisition of foreign
contract exploration blocks in areas with known oil and gas deposits and the
cost-efficient development and exploitation of its worldwide oil and gas
reserves. Specific strategies include the buying or selling of proved reserves
and flexible and responsive marketing techniques, particularly for natural gas.
         Occidental's domestic oil and gas operations are affected by political
developments and by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to,
among other things, increases in taxes and royalties, production limits and
environmental matters. All sectors of the natural gas industry continued during
1994 to adjust their marketing activities under the provisions of a series of
orders adopted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") in 
1992 ("Order 636"). Order 636 was implemented to improve the competitive 
structure of the natural gas industry and at the same time maintain adequate 
and reliable service. Both FERC and state regulatory agencies continue to 
modify and expand the regulation of the transportation services framework put
into effect by Order 636. In addition to Order 636, FERC issued a series of
Orders in 1994 that will tend to deregulate the gathering systems of interstate
pipelines and their affiliates. Neither of these activities is expected to have
a significant impact on the domestic oil and gas operations of Occidental.
         Portions of Occidental's oil and gas assets are located in countries
outside North America, some of which may be considered politically and
economically unstable. These assets and the related operations are subject to
the risk of actions by governmental authorities and insurgent groups.
Occidental attempts to conduct its financial affairs so as to protect against
such risks and would expect to receive compensation in the event of
nationalization. At December 31, 1994, the carrying value of Occidental's oil
and gas assets in countries outside North America aggregated approximately
$1.942 billion, or approximately 11 percent of Occidental's total assets at
that date. Approximately $527 million of such assets was located in the Middle
East, and $506 million of such assets was located in Latin America.
Substantially all of the remainder were located in the Dutch sector of the
North Sea, West Africa, Russia and Pakistan.

         UNITED STATES  Occidental produces crude oil and natural gas,
principally in Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Kansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New
Mexico, California and Mississippi.
         Net daily domestic production of crude oil averaged approximately
59,000 barrels in 1994, compared with 58,000 barrels in 1993. Net daily
domestic production of natural gas averaged 620 million cubic feet ("MMcf") in
1994, compared with 600 MMcf in 1993.
         Occidental's average price for domestic crude oil was $14.21 per
barrel in 1994, compared with $15.54 in the previous year. The average natural
gas price in 1994 was $1.85 per thousand cubic feet ("Mcf"), compared with
$1.98 per Mcf during 1993.
         Occidental completed two major acquisitions that resulted in
substantial reserve additions in 1994. The purchase late in the year of Placid
Oil Company added proven domestic reserves of 20.1 million barrels of oil
equivalent. The acquisition of interests in oil and gas properties from Agip
Petroleum Co. Inc. ("Agip") added proved reserves of 124 billion cubic feet
("Bcf") of natural gas equivalent. Combined, these acquisitions will add net
daily production of 74 MMcf of natural gas and 8,200 barrels of oil from the
preacquisition levels. The Agip volumes have been included in Occidental's
production volumes referred to two paragraphs above since April 1, 1994.


                                    -2-

         Occidental's largest concentration of gas reserves and production is
the Hugoton area encompassing portions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, where it
produced an average of more than 204 MMcf of gas per day or approximately
one-third of the domestic total. Occidental has approximately 1 Tcf
of gas reserves and 4 million barrels of oil reserves in the Hugoton region and
has continued development in this region by drilling 56 infill wells and adding
25 producing wells through exploration of deeper levels in 1994.
         During 1994, Occidental's development programs offshore Louisiana
increased net reserves by 2.3 million barrels of oil and 15.6 Bcf of gas. In
New Mexico, an eight-well drilling program in the Old Millman Ranch field added
reserves in excess of 1 million barrels of oil and 2.2 Bcf of gas. Oil
production also was increased in the Milne Point unit of Alaska with the
drilling of 14 wells that added 3.7 million barrels of proven reserves.
         Occidental's first horizontal test well in the Austin Chalk play in
Louisiana's Masters Creek Field was a success. Occidental drilled the Monroe
A-1 well in such field which tested at a daily rate of 2,162 barrels of oil and
6.6 MMcf of natural gas. Plans are under way to further develop the field using
horizontal drilling technology. Occidental has a 100 percent working interest
in the Masters Creek field and a significant leasehold interest in
approximately 30,000 surrounding acres.
         Occidental has an agreement to make available to certain parties, in
connection with a legal settlement, up to 49,500 million British thermal units
("MMBtu") of natural gas per day through 2010 at prices related to market.
Occidental also has an agreement to supply fuel gas at market prices for a CITGO
Petroleum Corporation ("CITGO") refinery until 2003 to the extent that CITGO
does not obtain such gas from other sources.
         Additionally, Occidental has an agreement to supply CITGO, at CITGO's
option, with a majority of its domestic lease crude oil and condensate
production through August 31, 1998. During 1994, Occidental sold CITGO
approximately 38,000 barrels of oil per day under this agreement.
         Occidental has various agreements to supply certain gas marketing
companies with 70,900 MMBtu of natural gas per day for 1995 and 1996 and with
volumes ranging from 69,400 down to 1,900 MMBtu per day from 1997 through 2003.
Prices under the different agreements are based on energy equivalent crude oil
prices, market-sensitive prices or fixed-contract prices, some with a yearly
escalation provision. Occidental also has agreements with various public
utility companies to provide approximately 40,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day
through 1997 and approximately 19,100 MMBtu per day in 1998. The public utility
agreements provide for market-sensitive prices.

         ARGENTINA In 1993, Occidental sold 20 percent of the stock of a
subsidiary that owned Occidental's Argentina oil and gas operating interests to
an Argentine company with an option to acquire Occidental's remaining 80
percent of the stock of the aforementioned subsidiary.  The option was
exercised in July of 1994.
         Occidental's net share of production through July 1994 was 7,000
barrels per day from the various producing fields subject to Contract No. 7559
and 1,200 barrels per day from Rio Negro Norte, the two areas which comprised
Occidental's Argentine producing interests.

         CANADA Occidental owns an approximate 30 percent interest in
CanadianOxy, which is accounted for as an equity investment.  See Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
         CanadianOxy produces crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and
sulfur in Canada, principally in the Province of Alberta; owns a 7.2 percent
interest in Syncrude Canada Ltd., which produces synthetic crude oil from the
tar sands of Northern Alberta; has interests in producing oil and gas leases
onshore and offshore in the United States and in the United Kingdom sector of
the North Sea and Yemen; engages in exploration activities in Canada, the
United States, Yemen, Indonesia, Romania, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Egypt and
Vietnam; and participates with Occidental in certain of its operations in Peru
and Ecuador. CanadianOxy also conducts chemical operations in Canada.
         At December 31, 1994, Occidental's proportional interest in
CanadianOxy's worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped reserves
aggregated approximately 41 million barrels of crude oil,


                                    -3-

condensate and natural gas liquids, 162 Bcf of natural gas and 44 million 
barrels of synthetic crude oil recoverable from tar sands.                    

         COLOMBIA Occidental conducts exploration and production operations in
Colombia under three contracts with Ecopetrol, the Colombian national oil
company. These contracts cover the producing Cano Limon area in the Llanos
region of northeastern Colombia, one exploration area in the Llanos fold belt
and one exploration area in the Magdalena Valley. Occidental's interest in
these contracts is through its 75 percent ownership of the stock of a
subsidiary that owns the company conducting operations in Colombia. After
giving effect to a government royalty, Occidental's net share of existing
production is 15 percent from the contract covering the Llanos area.
         All of Occidental's share of production is exported through a
trans-Andean pipeline system that carries crude oil to an export terminal at
Covenas. Occidental has an 18.75 percent net ownership interest in the pipeline
and marine terminal. The pipeline is subject to periodic attacks by insurgent
groups, which disrupt the flow of oil.
         Gross production from Occidental's Cano Limon area averaged
approximately 189,000 barrels per day in 1994, compared with 202,000 barrels
per day in 1993.

          CONGO  In April 1993, Occidental signed an agreement with the Congo
providing for the purchase of a share of the government's entitlement to oil
from certain offshore properties. The agreement was subsequently amended to
substitute the government's entitlement from fields either currently producing
or scheduled for development to replace undeveloped areas included in the
initial agreement. Occidental began receiving revenue from the entitlement oil
in 1994. Occidental has also signed production-sharing contracts for two
offshore exploration blocks and is awaiting government approval.

         ECUADOR Occidental operates the 494,000-acre Block 15, in the Oriente
Basin, under a risk-service contract. Five oil fields were discovered between
1985 and 1992 and production started in May 1993 from three fields. Drilling
will continue until the fields are fully developed. Gross production was 21,800
barrels per day in 1994 and Occidental's net production was approximately
18,000 barrels per day.
         All exploration activity has been concentrated in the western portion
of the block, but continuing geologic studies have revealed more prospects
around the production area and in the eastern portion. Occidental has proposed
incentives that would permit new investment in exploration and provide
substantial financial benefits for Ecuador.
         Occidental has an 85 percent interest in the parent of the company
that holds title to the block. CanadianOxy owns the remaining 15 percent.

         NORTH SEA Through the purchase of Placid Oil Company in December,
Occidental acquired interests in seven gas-producing licenses and six
exploration licenses in the Dutch sector of the North Sea, adding 193 Bcf of
gas and 466,000 barrels of condensate to Occidental's reserves at year-end.
Also acquired was a 38.6 percent interest in a 170-mile gas pipeline system
that services the area. Net production at the time of purchase was
approximately 75 MMcf of gas per day.

         OMAN Occidental is the operator, with a 65 percent working interest,
of the Suneinah Block, which contains the Safah field, the Al Barakah field and
the Wadi Latham field. Occidental's net share of production from the block in
1994 averaged approximately 12,300 barrels per day of crude oil, compared with
10,500 barrels per day in 1993.

         PAKISTAN In northern Pakistan, Occidental is the operator, with a 45
percent working interest in the Dhurnal field and a 40 percent working interest
in the Bhangali fields. Occidental's share of production from these fields in
1994 was 1,600 barrels of oil per day and 3 MMcf of gas per day. Occidental has
a 35.8 percent net interest in the Ratana gas field.  Gas sales for the Ratana
gas field started in July 1993 and the Ratana well produced at an average rate
of 6 MMcf of gas per day and 300 barrels of condensate per day in 1994.


                                    -4-

         In southern Pakistan, Occidental has a 30 percent working interest in
the Badin Block, which in 1994 produced a net share of 4,700 barrels of oil per
day and 43 MMcf of gas per day, compared to 5,200 barrels of oil per day and
42.7 MMcf of gas per day in 1993. Exploration of the block resulted in two oil
and gas discoveries that will help maintain production at current rates.
Numerous exploration wells will be drilled in 1995.
         During 1994, Occidental acquired exploration rights for a 356,000-acre
block in northern Pakistan, a 1.1-million-acre block in the Central Indus gas
basin and four other blocks totaling 5.2 million acres.

         PERU Occidental conducts exploration and production activities under
three separate service contracts with the Peruvian government. Two of these
contracts cover continuing operations in the northern jungle and in the
northern coastal area of Talara and provide for Occidental to receive, as
compensation for its services, fees, based on barrels of production, that vary
with the value of a "basket" of international oils.  All production is
delivered to Perupetro. Occidental has a 100 percent interest in the jungle
contract and a 63 percent interest in the Talara contract. The contract for
Talara, signed in 1978, expires in July 1995.
         Gross production from the northern jungle block averaged approximately
58,000 barrels per day in 1994, compared with 59,600 barrels per day in 1993.
In the Talara area, gross production was approximately 4,800 barrels per day in
1994, compared with 5,100 barrels per day in 1993.

         QATAR In October, a unified agreement was approved authorizing
Occidental to implement a development plan to increase production and reserves
from the Idd el Shargi North Dome field and to provide technical support and
services to Qatar General Petroleum Corporation to improve production in all of
Qatar's oil fields.
         Under a production sharing agreement, Occidental is the operator of
the field and will complete development of the field's three main reservoirs
using horizontally drilled wells in conjunction with pressure maintenance by
both water injection and gas injection to effect a high recovery from the
reservoir. Over the 25-year life of the project, Occidental will invest over
$700 million in development capital and receive approximately 50 percent of the
production from this field through profits and cost recovery. Production is 
expected to increase to more than 90,000 barrels per day from the initial base
rate of 20,000 barrels per day and to recover approximately 570 million
barrels of oil.

         RUSSIA In 1992, Occidental and Chernogorneft Enterprise began
operation of a fifty-fifty joint venture company, Vanyoganneft, which was
formed to increase oil recovery and production from the Vanyogan and Ayogan oil
fields and to sell the oil to foreign markets. The two oil fields are located
40 miles northeast of the city of Nizhnevartovsk in the western Siberian oil
basin. Through well workovers, new development wells and the use of electric
submersible pumps, production was increased by more than 8,000 barrels per day
and reached 50,000 gross barrels per day at year-end 1993. The Russian
government mandated the cessation of joint venture exports at the beginning of
1994, which caused Occidental to slow investment substantially and to reduce
expatriate staff. As a result, Occidental reduced repair work and new drilling.
During 1994, gross production averaged 40,000 barrels per day. Gross production
for the venture during the first quarter of 1995 is averaging 46,000 barrels
per day. Exports of crude oil resumed in the fourth quarter of 1994 and
Occidental expects to continue to export a significant amount of its production
in 1995.
         In 1992, Occidental was awarded the 1.5-million-acre Block 15 in the
Russian Federation's Komi Republic. A joint venture, Parmaneft, was established
between Occidental, with a 75 percent interest, and Ukhtaneftegasgeologica
(UNGG) to explore for oil and gas and develop discoveries within the block.
During the exploration phase, Occidental is paying 100 percent of the costs.
South Terekheveiskaya Parmaneft-1, the joint venture's first exploratory well
drilled in 1993, tested high-gravity oil at a rate of approximately 6,400
barrels per day. The block contains a number of other prospects that may
contain oil reserves.  In addition to Block 15, Parmaneft acquired rights under
subsurface licenses for two undeveloped Russian fields several miles southeast
of Block 15. Two appraisal wells were drilled in 1994


                                    -5-

to determine probable well production rates and the extent of the fields. One
exploratory well is planned for late 1995 or early 1996.                 

         VENEZUELA In November 1993, Occidental executed a 20-year operating
services agreement with Maraven, an affiliate of the Venezuelan national oil
company, to increase oil production and reserves from existing fields in the
968,000-acre unit located just west of Lake Maracaibo. A three-year work
program began in February 1994 that includes the workover and repair of
existing wells, the drilling of new wells, the installation of high-rate
pumping equipment in all wells and the expansion of existing production
facilities to accommodate increased production. During 1994, production was
increased from an initial project takeover rate of 6,000 barrels per day and
averaged about 14,000 barrels per day in December. Occidental is the operator,
with a 100 percent interest, and it will receive, as compensation for its
services, fees based on barrels of production that vary with the values of a
"basket" of international oils, inflation and accumulated production.

         YEMEN In 1991, Occidental acquired an 18 percent working interest in
the 6.8-million-acre Masila Block, where CanadianOxy, the operator, with a 52
percent working interest, has made 12 oil discoveries. Construction of
production gathering and treating facilities, a 90-mile pipeline system and an
offshore export terminal on the Gulf of Aden were completed in November 1993.
Production started in July 1993 and averaged approximately 152,000 barrels per
day in 1994. Occidental's net share under a production-sharing contract was
14,400 barrels per day in 1994.  Drilling will continue until the fields are
fully developed.

         OTHER INTERNATIONAL EXPLORATION  In 1992, a substantial gas and oil
discovery was made in the Malampaya prospect on Block SC-38 offshore northwest
Palawan Island in the Philippines. Appraisal wells confirmed that the 1989
Camago discovery by Occidental and the Malampaya discovery contain sufficient
recoverable gas for a commercial project. Occidental and its partner, Shell
Philippines Exploration Corporation, the operator, are formulating plans with
the Philippine government to develop and market the gas. Occidental has a 50
percent working interest.
         In east Malaysia, Occidental made significant gas discoveries offshore
Sarawak. Occidental is the operator, with a 37.5 percent working interest.
Occidental is continuing discussions with its partners to commercialize these
discoveries.  Additional exploration wells will be drilled in 1995.
         In addition, Occidental acquired new exploration blocks in Bangladesh,
China, Egypt, Tunisia, Gabon and Vietnam. During 1995, exploration activities
are planned in these areas as well as on previously acquired blocks in Albania,
Colombia, Malaysia and the Philippines.  In 1994, Occidental was awarded
blocks in Hungary and is negotiating a concession contract with the government.

Reserves, Production and Related Information

         Reference is made to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and the information appearing under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas 
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report for information
with respect to Occidental's oil and gas reserves, the production from and
other changes in such reserves, the discounted present value of estimated
future net cash flows therefrom, certain costs and other financial and
statistical information regarding Occidental's oil and gas exploration and
production operations. Estimates of reserves have been made by Occidental
engineers and include reserves under which Occidental holds an economic
interest under service contracts and other arrangements. The definitions used
are in accordance with applicable Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations.  Accordingly, unless otherwise stated, all references to reserves
are made on a net basis.  In 1994, Occidental reported to the U.S. Department
of Energy (the "DOE") on Form EIA-28 the same proved oil and gas reserves at
December 31, 1993, as are set forth for that date in the information appearing
under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas Information" contained in
Occidental's 1993 Annual Report.


                                     -6-

NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION OPERATIONS

General

         Through MidCon Corp. ("MidCon"), Occidental engages in interstate and
intrastate natural gas transmission and marketing. MidCon's subsidiaries
purchase, transport, store, produce and process gas and sell gas to utilities,
municipalities and industrial and commercial users.

         The principal subsidiaries of MidCon are: Natural Gas Pipeline Company
of America ("Natural"), which owns a major interstate pipeline transmission
system; MidCon Texas Pipeline Corp. ("MidCon Texas"), which, together with its
subsidiaries, owns and operates intrastate pipeline systems in Texas; and
MidCon Gas Services Corp. ("MidCon Gas"), which engages in the production,
purchase and sale of gas and arranges for the transportation and storage of
such gas. MidCon Exploration Company ("MidCon Exploration") owns fifty percent
interests in federal oil and gas leases for two blocks in the Garden Banks
area, offshore Louisiana. Other subsidiaries of MidCon process natural gas.
Through subsidiaries, MidCon also owns interests in several gas pipeline joint
ventures.

         MidCon's interstate pipeline operations are subject to extensive
regulation by the FERC. The FERC regulates, among other things, rates and
charges for transportation of gas in interstate commerce, the construction and
operation of interstate pipeline facilities and the accounts and records of
interstate pipelines. Certain of MidCon Texas' rates and other aspects of its
business are subject to regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission.

         Order 636 was adopted by the FERC to address certain marketing
advantages purportedly enjoyed by interstate pipelines over other resellers of
gas. Order 636 includes requirements that interstate pipelines no longer
provide a "bundled" service that uses their gas transportation and storage
facilities as part of marketing gas to sales customers. As a consequence,
Natural eliminated its traditional gas sales service to customers effective
December 1, 1993.

         When Natural discontinued merchant service on December 1, 1993, it no
longer needed gas supplies to meet sales requirements. Natural has eliminated
most of its gas supply contracts through termination or buyout. Of the
contracts that remain, Natural's obligations are being resolved in a number of
ways in order to minimize these gas supply realignment  ("GSR") costs. Natural
has reached settlement agreements with its former sales customers providing for
recovery of a significant amount of its GSR costs. Under these settlements,
which have been approved by the FERC, Natural, through monthly demand charge
billings, recovers GSR costs allocated to these customers over a 48-month
period that commenced in December 1993. The FERC has also permitted Natural to
implement, subject to possible refund, a tariff mechanism to recover additional
portions of its GSR costs in rates charged to transportation customers that
were not party to the settlements. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Properties

         Natural's principal facilities consist of two major interconnected
transmission pipelines terminating in the Chicago metropolitan area.  One line,
which extends from the west Texas and New Mexico producing areas, includes
approximately 7,100 miles of main pipeline and various small-diameter lines.
The other line extends from the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana and
comprises approximately 5,000 miles of main pipeline and various small-diameter
lines. These two main pipelines are connected at points in Texas and Oklahoma
by Natural's 240-mile Amarillo/Gulf Coast ("A/G") Pipeline. A 105-mile pipeline
runs from the Arkoma Basin gas-producing area of eastern Oklahoma to the A/G
Pipeline.


                                     -7-

         Nine underground storage fields are operated in four states to provide
services to Natural's customers and to support pipeline deliveries during the
winter, when space heating demand is higher.

         MidCon Texas owns and operates an intrastate pipeline system, located
primarily in the Texas Gulf Coast area. The system includes approximately 2,400
miles of pipelines, supply lines, sales laterals and related facilities. A
subsidiary of MidCon Texas owns a separate Texas intrastate pipeline system
(the "Palo Duro System") that includes approximately 400 miles of pipeline and
related facilities. The Palo Duro System is leased to a nonaffiliate. MidCon
Texas operates a gas storage facility in south Texas that it leases from a
partnership in which a subsidiary of MidCon Texas owns an interest.

Markets, Sales, Transportation, Storage, Production and Processing

         The location of MidCon's pipelines provides access to large market
areas, to most other major pipeline systems and to nearly all major North
American producing areas. This permits delivery of natural gas directly or by
displacement to pipeline systems serving most of the United States.

         Deliveries of gas by MidCon's pipelines include volumes sold by the
pipelines and their marketing affiliates and volumes owned by others which are
transported. The following table sets forth in Bcf the gas volumes sold to, or
transported for, nonaffiliates by Natural, MidCon Texas and MidCon Gas for each
of the last three calendar years:



         Sales volumes shown in the foregoing table for MidCon Texas include
sales deliveries by its marketing subsidiaries to nonaffiliates.  The table
does not include gas transported by Natural for affiliates for sale to
nonaffiliates of approximately 220 Bcf in 1994, 151 Bcf in 1993 and 143 Bcf in
1992. The table also does not show volumes of gas that have been auctioned by
Natural following the termination of its traditional gas sales service on
December 1, 1993.

         As a result of the elimination of sales service by Natural,
transportation and storage have become the cornerstones of Natural's business.
Much of Natural's former sales service was replaced by a combined
transportation and storage service. Customers purchasing this service pay
monthly demand charges irrespective of gas volumes actually transported and
stored, and commodity charges based upon actual gas volumes transported and
actual gas volumes injected into, and withdrawn from, storage. In addition,
Natural is authorized to assess separate monthly demand charges to these
customers to recover a portion of the GSR costs.

         The combined transportation and storage service is provided under
service agreements with terms ending on December 1, 1995, in the cases of
Natural's major customers. While Natural anticipates that a portion of its
business with at least one of these customers will shift to other pipeline
companies following the expiration of existing service agreements, Natural
expects to enter into new transportation and storage service agreements with 
all of its major customers on terms to be negotiated. Concurrent with the


                                     -8-

negotiations of these new service agreements and in accordance with a
requirement in its last rate case settlement, Natural will file a general rate
case with the FERC to set new rates for its services to be effective December
1, 1995.

         Pursuant to transportation agreements and FERC tariff provisions,
Natural offers both firm transportation service and interruptible
transportation service. For the 1994-95 winter heating season, virtually all
of the capacity on Natural's pipeline system is subscribed under firm
transportation agreements. Under Natural's tariff, transportation customers pay
a commodity charge for volumes actually transported, based upon the
geographical location, the time of year and, in many cases, the distance of the
transportation provided. Firm transportation customers pay reservation charges
each month, irrespective of volumes actually transported. In addition, as in
the case of the combined service described above, Natural is authorized to
assess separate monthly demand charges to firm transportation customers to
recover a portion of the GSR costs.

         Natural also provides firm and interruptible gas storage service
pursuant to storage agreements and FERC-approved tariffs. Storage customers pay
a commodity charge for actual volumes injected and withdrawn and, in many
cases, a monthly charge based upon volumes of gas stored. Firm storage
customers pay a separate monthly demand charge irrespective of actual volumes
stored.

         In 1994, Natural transported about 65 percent of the natural gas
delivered into its principal market, the Chicago metropolitan area.  The
Chicago area deliveries were primarily to three major gas distribution utility
companies. Natural estimates that the end-use markets of its principal utility
customers were 44 percent residential, 18 percent commercial and 38 percent
industrial.

         Natural's transportation competitors in the Chicago metropolitan area
consist of other interstate pipelines that own facilities in the vicinity.
Natural faces the prospect of increased competition in this market as other
pipelines consider expansion projects to increase their capability to serve the
Chicago area. Natural also furnishes transportation service for others to and
from many other locations on its pipeline system and, in recent years, has
increased transportation deliveries to markets outside the Chicago metropolitan
area. Competition for such service may be provided by one or more other
pipelines, depending upon the nature of the transportation service required.
Transportation rates, service options and available pipeline capacity and, in
some cases, the availability of, and rates for, storage services are the key
factors in determining Natural's ability to compete for particular
transportation business.

         MidCon Texas and its subsidiaries make sales principally to customers
located in the Houston-Beaumont and Port Arthur area of Texas and provide
transportation service within the state of Texas. Intense competition exists
among numerous suppliers for sales of gas to customers in MidCon Texas' sales
markets. Price is the primary competitive factor. At most locations on its
system, MidCon Texas faces competition from other pipelines for gas
transportation business. Transportation rates and available pipeline capacity
are generally the key factors in determining MidCon Texas' ability to compete
for particular transportation business.

         The rates for MidCon Texas' city-gate sales are subject to regulation
by the Texas Railroad Commission. Other sales and transportation rates are
determined by prevailing market conditions and are largely unregulated.
Transportation service is provided by MidCon Texas on both a firm and an
interruptible basis.

         MidCon Gas makes sales of gas nationwide to local distribution
companies and commercial and industrial end users. These sales arrangements
frequently include peaking and swing services that MidCon Gas is able to
provide through its management of contractual rights for transportation and
storage capacity from MidCon's pipeline subsidiaries and other pipeline
companies. Generally, sales


                                     -9-

prices received by MidCon Gas are established by negotiation. MidCon Gas also
offers a variety of fuel management services to utilities and other large
volume gas users.

         During 1994, MidCon subsidiaries sold approximately 125 million
gallons of natural gas liquids obtained through gas processing operations. In
November 1994, a joint venture of MidCon Exploration made an oil and gas
discovery in the Garden Banks area, offshore Louisiana, that tested at a daily
rate of approximately 10,500 barrels of oil and 11.9 MMcf of gas.

         Through other subsidiaries, MidCon is exploring opportunities in
emerging natural gas markets such as natural gas fueled vehicles, wholesale
electric power brokering and independent electric power generation. During
1994, a MidCon subsidiary opened an office in the Philippines to pursue power
generation projects in southeast Asia.

Gas Supply

         As a part of its service restructuring pursuant to Order 636, Natural
has reduced substantially the amount of gas supplies it has under contract and
will be eliminating all supply contract obligations over time.

         MidCon Texas purchases its gas supplies from producers and, to a
lesser extent, from other pipeline companies or their subsidiaries.  MidCon Gas
purchases gas supplies from Natural at auction and from producers and other gas
marketers. MidCon Gas also obtains supplies from its own production and
maintains inventories of gas supplies in storage facilities of its affiliates
and other pipeline companies.

Pipeline Ventures

         Through subsidiaries, MidCon owns interests of from 20 to 50 percent
in three pipeline ventures that operate approximately 520 miles of pipeline in
the Gulf of Mexico and interests, of varying percentages, in approximately 270
miles of jointly owned supply laterals that also operate in the Gulf of Mexico.
The ventures transport gas onshore from producers in the offshore Louisiana and
Texas areas for various customers. Other subsidiaries of MidCon own interests
of 18 and 33 1/3 percent, respectively, in two onshore pipeline ventures. These
ventures operate approximately 520 miles of pipelines from Colorado to
Nebraska.

CHEMICAL OPERATIONS

General

         Occidental conducts its chemical operations through Occidental
Chemical Corporation and its various subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively,
"OxyChem"). OxyChem manufactures and markets a variety of basic chemicals,
petrochemicals and polymers and plastics.

         A substantial portion of OxyChem's products are principally commodity
in nature, i.e., they are equivalent to products manufactured by others that
are generally available in the marketplace and are produced and sold in large
volumes, primarily to industrial customers for use as raw materials. Many of
OxyChem's manufacturing operations are integrated, and many of its products are
both sold to others and further processed by OxyChem into other chemical
products.

         OxyChem has been expanding and further integrating its industrial
chemicals business through acquisitions and expansions of existing facilities.
OxyChem also has added capacity at several of its facilities over the past few
years through "debottlenecking" projects, which expand or modify portions of


                                     -10-

existing facilities that had previously limited production, thus adding
incremental capacity at a relatively low cost.

         In March 1994, OxyChem received a favorable decision from Western New
York Federal District Court Judge John T. Curtin stating that OxyChem was not
liable to New York State for punitive damages in the Love Canal lawsuit.  See
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

         In April 1994, OxyChem sold its 49 percent owned Mexican affiliate,
Polifos S.A. de C.V., to Grupo Industrias Resistol. Polifos lacked any
long-term strategic benefit to OxyChem, either in its base industrial phosphate
business (which OxyChem exited in 1990) or as a vehicle to enter Mexico's
chlor-alkali, vinyls, or petrochemicals industries in which OxyChem's strategic
interests lie.

         In April 1994, OxyChem announced plans to resume construction of a
66,000 tons-per-year sodium chlorate plant at Taft, Louisiana. When combined
with earlier plant capacity expansions, this current expansion will increase
OxyChem's total sodium chlorate production capacity to 126,000 tons annually.

         In August 1994, OxyChem signed a definitive agreement with Borden
Chemicals and Plastics ("Borden") for its purchase of OxyChem's Addis,
Louisiana polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") production facility. In addition, OxyChem
signed a definitive agreement in September 1994 with Ozite Corporation
("Ozite") for its purchase of OxyChem's Burlington South, New Jersey PVC
production facility. These actions follow OxyChem's January 1994 agreement with
the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") resolving its challenge to OxyChem's 1986
acquisition of Tenneco Polymers' PVC plants. Borden's and Ozite's acquisitions
of OxyChem's Addis and Burlington South plants, respectively, are contingent
upon FTC approval. Until such approval is obtained, there can be no assurance
that such transactions will be consummated.

         In October 1994, OxyChem announced that it was exiting the
chloromethane chemical business and discontinuing operations at its Belle, West
Virginia plant. See the information appearing under the caption "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis" in the 1994 Annual Report, which is incorporated by
reference in Item 7 of this report. This decision was made in light of
OxyChem's strategy of supporting only those core, low-cost businesses that can
significantly contribute to earnings. The Belle plant was a small plant which
had been unprofitable or marginally profitable for several years.

         In February 1995, OxyChem and Marubeni Corporation announced revised
capacity increase plans proposing to add 700 million pounds per year of vinyl
chloride monomer ("VCM") production capacity to their joint venture OxyMar
plant located in Ingleside, Texas. The expansion is scheduled for completion in
the middle of 1997 and will bring the facility's total capacity to more than 2.1
billion pounds per year.

         OxyChem's operations are affected by cyclical factors in the general
economic environment and by specific chemical industry conditions.  The
chemical industry in the United States was characterized in 1994 by higher
sales prices and margins for many chemical products manufactured by OxyChem.
Continued cost reduction efforts instituted by OxyChem also resulted in savings
as compared to 1993. The integration strategy adopted by OxyChem permitted it
to maintain relatively high operating rates in 1994, with similar operating
rates expected to continue for 1995.

         Similarly, conditions improved for the agricultural phosphate industry
in 1994.  Both the demand and margins for domestic and offshore phosphate
fertilizers increased.  As a result, OxyChem restarted its idled Swift Creek
phosphoric acid production facility. 1994 was the first full year of production
of a new product, clarified superphosphoric acid, and OxyChem successfully
established itself in this market.


                                     -11-

         OxyChem's operations also have been affected by environmental
regulation and associated costs.  See the information appearing under the 
caption "Environmental Regulation" in this report.

Principal Products

         OxyChem produces the following chemical products:




                                     -12-

         Based in part on statistics in chemical industry publications,
Occidental believes that during 1994 it was the largest merchant marketer of
chlorine and caustic soda; including OxyMar (OxyChem's joint venture with
Marubeni) the largest producer of vinyl chloride monomer; the largest producer
of PVC dispersion resins and chrome chemicals; the second-largest producer of
sodium silicates and ethylene glycols; the sixth-largest producer of ethylene;
and the largest supplier to the DOT-3 brake fluids aftermarket in the United
States. Additionally, Occidental believes it was the world's largest producer
of potassium hydroxide, phenolic molding compounds and chlorinated isocyanurate
products and the world's largest exporter of ethylene dichloride.

Raw Materials

         Nearly all raw materials utilized in OxyChem's operations that are not
produced by OxyChem or acquired from affiliates are readily available from a
variety of sources. Most of OxyChem's key raw materials purchases are made
through short- and long-term contracts. OxyChem is not dependent on any single
nonaffiliated supplier for a material amount of its raw material or energy
requirements, subject to establishing alternative means of transportation or
delivery in the event of the termination of arrangements with existing
suppliers.

Patents, Trademarks and Processes

         OxyChem owns and licenses a large number of patents and trademarks and
uses a variety of processes in connection with its operations, some of which
are proprietary and some of which are licensed. OxyChem does not regard its
business as being materially dependent on any single patent or trademark it
owns or licenses or any process it uses.

Sales and Marketing

         OxyChem's products are sold primarily to industrial users or
distributors located in the United States, largely by its own sales force.
OxyChem sells its products principally at current market or current
market-related prices through short- and long-term sales agreements. Except for
sales in the export market, OxyChem generally does not use spot markets to sell
products. No significant portion of OxyChem's business is dependent on a single
customer. In general, OxyChem does not manufacture its products against a
backlog of firm orders; production is geared primarily to the level of incoming
orders and to projections of future demand.

Competition

         The chemical business is very competitive. Since most of OxyChem's
products are commodity in nature, they compete primarily on the basis of price,
quality characteristics and timely delivery. Because OxyChem's products
generally do not occupy proprietary positions, OxyChem endeavors to be an
efficient, low-cost producer through the employment of modern, high-yield
plants, equipment and technology. OxyChem's size and the number and location of
its plants also produce competitive advantages, principally in its ability to
meet customer specifications and delivery requirements.

Properties

         OxyChem, which is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, operates 38 chemical
product manufacturing facilities in the United States.  Many of the larger
facilities are located in the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana.  In
addition, OxyChem operates 14 chemical product manufacturing facilities in
eight foreign countries, with the most significant foreign plants being in
Brazil. A number of additional facilities process, blend and store the chemical
products. OxyChem also operates an open-pit phosphate rock mine in Florida.
Recoverable phosphate rock reserves were estimated by OxyChem's independent
engineers, DeGolyer & MacNaughton, at December 31, 1994, to be approximately 73
million tons with an


                                     -13-

average bone phosphate-of-lime content of 66.4 percent. OxyChem uses an
extensive fleet of barges and railroad cars and owns and operates a pipeline
network of over 950 miles along the Gulf Coast of Texas for the transportation
of ethylene, propylene and feedstocks.

         All of OxyChem's manufacturing facilities are owned or leased on a 
long-term basis.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

         Occidental's oil and gas operations, based on depletable resources,
are capital intensive, involving large-scale expenditures. In particular, in
the search for and development of new reserves, long lead times are often
required. In addition, Occidental's other businesses require capital
expenditures in order to remain competitive and to comply with safety and
environmental laws. Occidental's capital expenditures for its ongoing
businesses totaled approximately $1.1 billion in 1994 and 1993, exclusive of
the non-cash consideration for acquisitions. The 1994 amount included
capital expenditures aggregating $818 million for oil and gas, $190 million for
chemical and $93 million for natural gas transmission. The 1994 capital
expenditures reflected both the cash portion of the purchase price of certain
oil and gas properties acquired from Agip and the payments under a
production-sharing agreement for an enhanced oil recovery project in Qatar.
Occidental's total capital expenditures, exclusive of acquisitions, if any, for
1995 are expected to approximate $960 million, the majority of which is for oil
and gas operations.

EMPLOYEES

         Occidental and its subsidiaries employed a total of 19,660 persons at
December 31, 1994, of whom 14,800 were located in the United States. 6,610 were
employed in oil and gas operations, 2,210 in natural gas transmission
operations and 10,310 in chemical operations. An additional 530 persons were
employed at corporate headquarters. Approximately 2,500 U.S.-based employees
are represented by labor unions.

         Occidental has a long-standing policy to ensure that fair and equal
employment opportunities are extended to all persons without regard to race,
religion, color, sex, age, national origin, handicap or veteran status.
Occidental is committed to vigorous, good-faith enforcement of this policy.
Occidental maintains numerous affirmative action programs which are in effect
at company locations.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

         Occidental's operations in the United States are subject to
increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating
to improving or maintaining the quality of the environment. Foreign operations
are also subject to environmental protection laws.  Applicable U.S. laws
include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid
Waste Amendments and similar state environmental laws. The laws which require
or address remediation apply retroactively to previous waste disposal practices
and, in many cases, the laws apply regardless of fault, legality of the
original activities or ownership or control of sites.  Occidental is currently
participating in environmental assessments and cleanups under these laws at
federal Superfund sites, comparable state sites and other remediation sites,
including Occidental facilities and previously owned sites.  Also, Occidental
and certain of its subsidiaries have been involved in a substantial number of
governmental and private proceedings involving historical practices at various
sites, including in some instances having been named as defendants, as
potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"), or as both defendants and PRPs under
the federal Superfund law.  These proceedings seek funding for remediation,
remediation, or both, and, in some cases, compensation for alleged personal
injury or property damage, punitive damages and civil penalties, aggregating
substantial amounts.

         Occidental has accrued reserves for its environmental liabilities. As
of December 31, 1994 and 1993, Occidental had environmental reserves of
approximately $635 million and $742 million,


                                     -14-

respectively. Occidental provided additional reserves of approximately $4
million in 1994, $18 million in 1993 and $42 million in 1992 for costs
associated with expected remediation efforts at a number of sites. The 1994
amount related entirely to the oil and gas division. The 1993 amount included a
$17 million provision in the oil and gas division and a $1 million provision in
the chemical division. The 1992 amount related entirely to the oil and gas
division.

         Occidental's estimated operating expenses in 1994 relating to
compliance with environmental laws and regulations governing ongoing operations
were approximately $114 million, compared with $110 million in 1993 and $117
million in 1992. The 1994 amount included $74 million in the chemical division,
$34 million in the oil and gas division and $6 million in the natural gas
transmission division. In addition, estimated capital expenditures for
environmental compliance were $67 million in 1994, compared with $83 million in
1993 and $80 million in 1992. The 1994 amount included $42 million in the oil
and gas division, $24 million in the chemical division and $1 million in the
natural gas transmission division. Occidental presently estimates that
divisional capital expenditures for environmental compliance (including
environmental control facilities) will be approximately $99 million in 1995 and
approximately $105 million in 1996.

ITEM 3  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         There is incorporated by reference herein the information regarding
lawsuits, claims and related matters in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

         In 1990, Continental Trend Resources ("CTR") filed an action against
OXY USA Inc. ("OXY USA") in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Oklahoma, seeking damages for antitrust violations and tortious interference
with contract. In 1991, a jury returned a verdict in favor of CTR for $269,000
in actual damages and $30,000,000 in punitive damages on the tortious
interference claims. OXY USA appealed the judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the 10th Circuit. On January 12, 1995, that Court affirmed the judgment.
OXY USA has filed a petition for rehearing and has suggested that a rehearing
en banc is appropriate.

         In 1990, Dakota Gasification Company ("Dakota") filed an action in the
U.S. District Court of North Dakota against Natural and three other purchasers
of synthetic natural gas produced at a coal gasification plant in North Dakota,
seeking declaratory judgment as to the validity and interpretation of four gas
purchase agreements with regard to, among other things, an interpretation of
the pricing provision.  Dakota also alleged breach of contract,
misrepresentation and intentional interference with contractual relations. On
January 23, 1995, the FERC approved a definitive settlement agreement between
Dakota and Natural. Settlements with the other purchaser defendants have not
yet been approved by the FERC.

         In 1986, the FTC initiated an administrative proceeding against
OxyChem alleging that its acquisition of facilities from Tenneco Polymers, Inc.
in Pasadena, Texas and Burlington South, New Jersey violated antitrust laws.
The administrative complaint sought rescission of the acquisition agreement and
divestiture of the acquired assets. In 1993, the FTC issued an opinion and
final order of divestiture. OxyChem petitioned for review to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (the "Second Circuit"). A settlement was
subsequently reached under which OxyChem agreed to divest its facilities in
Burlington South and, in lieu of Pasadena, Addis, Louisiana, and refrain from
acquiring PVC assets for a period of 10 years without FTC approval. The Second
Circuit approved the settlement in January 1994. Definitive agreements with
Borden and Ozite to sell the Addis and Burlington South facilities,
respectively, were subsequently negotiated. Such agreements remain subject to
approval of the FTC, from which approval is not yet forthcoming.


                                     -15-

ITEM 4  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted to a vote of Occidental's security holders
during the fourth quarter of 1994.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT




                                     -16-



         The current term of office of each Executive Officer will expire at
the April 28, 1995, organizational meeting of the Occidental Board of Directors
or at such time as his or her successor shall be elected.


                                     -17-

                                    PART II

ITEM 5     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
           MATTERS

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the quarterly financial data
appearing under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data" and the information
appearing under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis--Liquidity
and Capital Resources" and "--Stockholders and Market Data" in the 1994
Annual Report, relevant portions of which 1994 Annual Report are filed as
Exhibit 13 to this report.

ITEM 6     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing
under the caption "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" in the 1994
Annual Report.

ITEM 7     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in the 1994 Annual
Report.


                                     -18-

ITEM 8     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

             INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION




                                     -19-

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors, Occidental Petroleum Corporation:

         We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Occidental
Petroleum Corporation's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994,
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and have issued
our report thereon dated February 3, 1995. Our audit was made for the purpose
of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The financial
statement schedule listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Related
Information is the responsibility of the Company's management and is presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not a required
part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and,
in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

         Our report on the consolidated financial statements includes an
explanatory paragraph with respect to the adoption by the Company, effective
January 1, 1992, of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106 and No.
109, as discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.


Los Angeles, California                   ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
February 3, 1995


                                     -20-




                                     -21-

ITEM 9   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information regarding
Occidental's directors appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" in
Occidental's definitive proxy statement filed in connection with its April 28,
1995, Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1995 Proxy Statement"). See also the
list of Occidental's executive officers and related information under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.

ITEM 11  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing
under the captions "Executive Compensation" (excluding, however, the
information appearing under the subcaptions "Report of the Compensation
Committee" and "Performance Graphs") and "Election of Directors--Information
Regarding the Board of Directors and Its Committees" in the 1995 Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 12  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information with respect
to security ownership appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in the 1995 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing
under the caption "Election of Directors--Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation" in the 1995 Proxy Statement.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)(1) AND (2).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                 Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements and
         Related Information under Item 8 in Part II hereof, where these
         documents are listed.

         (a)(3).  EXHIBITS




                                     -22-



                                     -23-

 
                                     -24-



                                     -25-

         (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

                 During the fourth quarter of 1994, Occidental filed the
           following Current Report on Form 8-K:

                 1.  Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 19, 1994 (date of
           earliest event reported), filed on October 20, 1994, for the purpose
           of reporting, under Item 5, Occidental's results of operations for
           the third quarter ended September 30, 1994.

                 During the first quarter of 1995 to the date hereof,
           Occidental filed the following Current Report on Form 8-K:

                 1.  Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 25, 1995 (date of
           earliest event reported), filed on January 26, 1995, for the purpose
           of reporting, under Item 5, Occidental's results of operations for
           the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.


                                     -26-

                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION

                                                                
March 16, 1995                      By:             RAY R. IRANI             
                                        -------------------------------------
                                                    Ray R. Irani
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer   


         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                                      -27-




                                     -28-

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS

        


                                     

 
                                     



                                     




