
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K
               [X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                      OR
             [_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM      TO
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9210
 
                               ----------------

                       OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                  DELAWARE                                       95-4035997
       (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                        (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
        INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                      IDENTIFICATION NO.)

          10889 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD                                 90024
           LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA                               (ZIP CODE)
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (310) 208-8800
 
                               ----------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (l) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or l5(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                  YES [X]  NO __
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
                               ----------------
 
  At March 7, 1997, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $8.5 billion, based on the
New York Stock Exchange composite tape closing price of $25.375 per share of
Common Stock (assuming conversion of all outstanding shares of Occidental's
$3.875 Cumulative Convertible Voting Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per
share) on March 7, 1997. Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and
director have been excluded from this computation in that such persons may be
deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not
necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
  At March 7, 1997, there were 329,754,982 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the registrant's Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
1996, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II. Portions of the
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement filed in connection with its April 25,
1997, Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part
III.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                

 
 
                                      (i)

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEMS 1 AND 2 BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES
 
GENERAL
 
  Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Occidental"),
explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas;
engages in interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission and marketing;
and manufactures and markets a variety of basic chemicals, petrochemicals,
polymers and plastics and specialty chemicals. Occidental conducts its
principal operations through three subsidiaries: Occidental Oil and Gas
Corporation, MidCon Corp. and Occidental Chemical Corporation. Occidental's
executive offices are located at 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California 90024; telephone (310) 208-8800.
 
  Occidental was organized in April 1986 and, as the result of a
reorganization effective May 21, 1986, became the successor to a California
corporation of the same name organized in 1920. As used herein, the term
"Occidental" refers to Occidental alone or together with one or more of its
subsidiaries.
 
  Occidental's principal businesses constitute three industry segments, the
operations of which are described below. For information with respect to the
revenues, net income and assets of Occidental's industry segments and of its
operations in various geographic areas for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements of Occidental ("Consolidated Financial Statements"), which are
included in Occidental's 1996 Annual Report ("1996 Annual Report") and are
incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report, and the information
appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis," which is
included in the 1996 Annual Report and is incorporated by reference in Item 7
of this report. Throughout this report, portions of the 1996 Annual Report are
incorporated by reference. These portions of the 1996 Annual Report are
included as Exhibit 13 to this report.
 
OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS
 
Exploration and Production
 
  GENERAL Through Occidental Oil and Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries, and
its approximate 30 percent equity interest in Canadian Occidental Petroleum
Ltd. ("CanadianOxy"), Occidental produces or participates in the production of
crude oil, condensate and natural gas in the United States, Canada, Colombia,
Ecuador, the Dutch and United Kingdom sectors of the North Sea, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Qatar, Russia, Venezuela and Yemen. Occidental is continuing
its development programs for certain existing fields in certain of these
countries and also is conducting exploration activities in several of these
countries as well as in other countries.
 

 
                COMPARATIVE OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND PRODUCTION
 
      (Oil in millions of barrels; natural gas in billions of cubic feet)
 

- -------------------------
* Natural gas volumes have been converted to equivalent barrels based on
  energy content of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil. 1995 and 1994 amounts
  have been restated to reflect this methodology.
 
  In 1996, Occidental added more oil to its reserves than it produced.
However, overall reserves decreased due to the sale of its interest in 46
million barrels of royalty oil, acquired by Occidental in 1993, to the Republic
of the Congo for $215 million. Occidental's consolidated worldwide net proved
developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil (not including those of
CanadianOxy) were 897 million barrels at year-end 1996, compared with 930
million barrels at year-end 1995. Domestic reserves of crude oil were 203
million barrels at year-end 1996, compared with 196 million barrels at year-end
1995, while international crude oil reserves decreased to 694 million barrels
from 734 million barrels at year-end 1995. Worldwide net crude oil reserve
additions of 119 million barrels, mainly in the United States and Qatar, more
than replaced Occidental's worldwide production of 105 million barrels. The
calculation of net reserve additions does not take into account sales of
reserves. Worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped reserves of natural gas
were approximately 2.6 trillion cubic feet ("Tcf") at year-end 1996, with 1.7
Tcf attributable to domestic operations. Worldwide net proved developed and
undeveloped natural gas reserves were about 2.5 Tcf in the previous year.
Occidental's crude oil reserves include condensate. Estimates of reserves have
been made by Occidental engineers. These estimates include reserves in which
Occidental holds an economic interest under service contracts and other
arrangements. The reserves are stated after applicable royalties. See the
information under the caption "Reserves, Production and Related Information" and
the information incorporated under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report.
 
  Net daily worldwide oil production averaged 286,000 barrels per day compared
to 278,000 barrels per day in 1995, and net worldwide natural gas production
averaged 716 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day compared to 739 MMcf per day
in 1995. International operations accounted for 80 percent of Occidental's oil
production, while 84 percent of gas production came from the United States. On
an oil equivalent basis, Occidental produced 405,000 net barrels per day in
1996 from operations in 12 countries, including the United States.
 
  As a producer of crude oil and natural gas, Occidental competes with
numerous other producers, as well as with nonpetroleum energy producers. Crude
oil and natural gas are commodities that are sensitive to prevailing
conditions of supply and demand and generally are sold at posted or contract
prices. Among the methods that Occidental uses to compete are the acquisition
of foreign contract exploration blocks in areas with known oil and gas
deposits and the cost-efficient development and production of its worldwide
oil and gas reserves. Specific strategies include the buying or selling of
proved reserves and flexible and responsive marketing techniques, particularly
for natural gas. Occidental has commenced the development process for its
recent gas discoveries in the Far East. Occidental is also pursuing
opportunities to increase production through enhanced oil recovery projects,
similar to those in Qatar and Venezuela, and focusing on oil and gas
exploration and strategic acquisitions.
 

 
  Occidental's domestic oil and gas operations are affected by political
developments and by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to,
among other things, increases in taxes and royalties, production limits and
environmental matters.
 
  In December 1995, Occidental entered into a transaction with Clark USA, Inc.
("Clark") under which Occidental agreed to deliver approximately 17.7 million
barrels of West Texas Intermediate crude ("WTI")-equivalent oil over a six-
year period. In exchange, Occidental received $100 million in cash and
approximately 5.5 million shares of Clark common stock. As a result of this
transaction, Occidental owns approximately 19 percent of Clark. Occidental has
accounted for the consideration received in the transaction as deferred
revenue which is being amortized into revenue as WTI-equivalent oil is
produced and delivered during the term of the agreement. Reserves dedicated to
the transaction were excluded from the estimate of proved oil and gas reserves
in 1995 and 1996 (see the information incorporated under the caption
"Supplemental Oil and Gas Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of
this report). Occidental delivered approximately 2.2 million barrels of WTI-
equivalent oil to Clark in 1996. At December 31, 1996, approximately 15.5
million barrels remain to be delivered.
 
  Portions of Occidental's oil and gas assets are located in countries outside
North America, some of which may be considered politically and economically
unstable. These assets and the related operations are subject to the risk of
actions by governmental authorities and insurgent groups. Occidental attempts
to conduct its financial affairs so as to protect against such risks and would
expect to receive compensation in the event of nationalization. At December
31, 1996, the carrying value of Occidental's oil and gas assets in countries
outside North America aggregated approximately $1.924 billion, or
approximately 11 percent of Occidental's total assets at that date.
Approximately $722 million of such assets were located in the Middle East, and
$639 million of such assets were located in Latin America. Substantially all
of the remainder was located in the Netherlands (comprising in part the Dutch
sector of the North Sea) and the Far East.
 
  UNITED STATES Occidental produces crude oil and natural gas, principally in
Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Kansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New Mexico,
California, Mississippi and Alaska.
 
  Net daily domestic production of crude oil averaged approximately 57,300
barrels in 1996, compared with 64,000 barrels in 1995. The 1996 production is
net of approximately 6,000 barrels per day delivered to Clark. Net daily
domestic production of natural gas averaged 601 MMcf in 1996, compared with
612 MMcf in 1995.
 
  Occidental's average sales price for domestic crude oil was $18.98 per
barrel in 1996, compared with $15.61 in the previous year. The average natural
gas sales price in 1996 was $2.11 per thousand cubic feet ("Mcf"), compared
with $1.51 per Mcf during 1995.
 
  Occidental's largest concentration of gas reserves and production is the
Hugoton area encompassing portions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, where it
produced an average of more than 207 MMcf of gas per day or approximately one-
third of the domestic total. Occidental has approximately 933 billion cubic
feet ("Bcf") of gas reserves and 5.5 million barrels of oil reserves in the
Hugoton area. Occidental continued infill drilling in the Chase formation of
the Hugoton field in 1996. In this program Occidental drilled and completed 54
wells, and 21 wells were stimulated by fracturing the Chase formation.
 
  Sixteen additional wells were drilled in the Milne Point field in Alaska
during 1996. These wells are expected to add up to 15,000 gross barrels of oil
per day to the unit's production in 1997 in which Occidental has an
approximate 8.8 percent interest.
 
  Occidental continued to develop its interest in the deep, high-pressure
Austin Chalk area of the Masters Creek field in Rapides Parish, Louisiana. In
December 1995, the Murry A-1, a 14,700-foot total vertical depth dual-lateral
horizontal well, was completed. The well was successfully tested at 3,200
barrels of oil and 10 MMcf of gas per day and was brought on production in
early 1996. This paved the way for dual-lateral development of Occidental's
interests in Masters Creek where Occidental has initial gross production of
5,450 barrels of oil and 14.7 MMcf of gas per day. During 1996, Occidental
participated in nine successful development wells in the Masters Creek area,
where Occidental has in excess of 100,000 acres under lease.
 

 
  Occidental has an agreement to make available to certain parties, in
connection with a legal settlement, up to 49,500 million British thermal units
("MMBtu") of natural gas per day through 2010 at prices related to market.
Occidental also has an agreement to supply fuel gas at market prices to a
CITGO Petroleum Corporation ("CITGO") refinery until 2003 to the extent that
CITGO does not obtain such gas from other sources.
 
  Additionally, Occidental has an agreement to supply CITGO, at CITGO's
option, with a majority of its domestic lease crude oil production through
August 31, 1998. During 1996, Occidental sold CITGO approximately 38,000
barrels of oil per day under this agreement. Occidental is currently disputing
certain provisions of this agreement.
 
  Occidental has various agreements to supply certain gas marketing companies
with 69,400 MMBtu of natural gas per day in 1997 and with volumes ranging from
69,400 MMBtu down to 1,900 MMBtu per day from 1997 through 2003. Prices under
the different agreements are based on energy equivalent crude oil prices,
market-sensitive prices or contract prices, some with a yearly escalation
provision. Occidental also has agreements with various public utility
companies to provide approximately 40,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day through
1997 and approximately 19,100 MMBtu per day in 1998. The public utility
agreements provide for market-sensitive prices. In addition, Occidental has
entered into several other sales contracts of one year or more to industrial
customers with a total volume of 18,100 MMBtu of natural gas per day in 1997,
decreasing to 2,600 MMBtu per day by 1998.
 
  CANADA Occidental owns an approximate 30 percent interest in CanadianOxy,
which is accounted for as an equity investment. See Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  CanadianOxy produces crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and sulfur
in Canada, principally in the Province of Alberta; owns a 7.23 percent
interest in Syncrude Canada Ltd., which produces synthetic crude oil from the
tar sands of Northern Alberta; has interests in producing oil and gas leases
onshore and offshore in the United States and in the United Kingdom sector of
the North Sea and Yemen (where CanadianOxy is operator and Occidental a
participant); engages in exploration activities in Canada, the United States,
Indonesia, Romania, Pakistan, Kazakstan, Nigeria, Colombia and Vietnam; and
participates with Occidental in its operations in Ecuador. CanadianOxy also
conducts chemical operations in Canada and the United States.
 
  At December 31, 1996, Occidental's proportional interest in CanadianOxy's
worldwide net proved developed and undeveloped reserves aggregated
approximately 33 million barrels of crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids, 153 Bcf of natural gas and 46 million barrels of synthetic crude oil
recoverable from tar sands.
 
  BANGLADESH In early 1995, Occidental signed production-sharing contracts to
explore a 3.4-million-acre area in the gas-producing northeastern region and
to appraise the Jalalabad discovery made in 1989. Seismic exploration of the
area is in progress and two exploratory wells will be drilled in 1997.
Appraisal and development of the Jalalabad gas discovery is expected to result
in gas production and sales before the end of 1998. A sale contract with
Petrobangla, the national oil company, for the initial delivery of 100 MMcf
per day of natural gas was signed in November 1996. Occidental has farmed-out
50 percent of its interest in this block to an affiliate of Unocal.
 
  COLOMBIA Occidental conducts exploration and production operations in
Colombia under three contracts with Ecopetrol, the Colombian national oil
company. These contracts cover the producing Cano Limon area in the Llanos
region of northeastern Colombia, one exploration area in the Llanos fold belt
and one exploration area in the Bogota basin. Occidental's interest in these
contracts is through its 75 percent ownership of the stock of a subsidiary
that owns the company conducting operations in Colombia. After giving effect
to a government royalty, Occidental's net share of existing production is 15
percent from the contract covering the Llanos area.
 
  All of Occidental's share of production is exported through a trans-Andean
pipeline system that carries crude oil to an export terminal at Covenas.
Occidental has an 18.75 percent net ownership interest in the pipeline and
marine terminal. The pipeline is subject to periodic attacks by insurgent
groups, which from time to time disrupt the flow of oil.
 

 
  Gross production from Occidental's Cano Limon area declined to approximately
190,000 barrels per day in 1996, compared with 197,000 barrels per day in
1995.
 
  CONGO In July 1996, Occidental sold its entire royalty interest in the
Republic of the Congo (the "Congo") to the Congo for approximately $215
million. Occidental's net royalty oil production for seven months of 1996 in
the Congo averaged approximately 6,000 barrels per day.
 
  ECUADOR Occidental operates the 494,000-acre Block 15, in the Oriente Basin,
under a risk-service contract. Six oil fields were discovered from 1985 to
1992. Drilling will continue until the fields are fully developed. Gross
production was approximately 21,500 barrels per day in 1996 compared to gross
production of approximately 23,800 barrels per day in 1995. In late 1996,
Occidental drilled a successful exploratory well in the southeastern portion
of the block. Appraisal of the discovery is required to determine its
commercial potential. In January 1997, the Ecuadorean government initiated
discussions to convert Occidental's existing risk-service contract to a
participation type of agreement.
 
  Occidental has an 85 percent interest in the parent of the company that
holds title to the block. CanadianOxy owns the remaining 15 percent.
 
  NORTH SEA Through the purchase of Placid International Oil Ltd. (now
Occidental Netherlands, Inc.) Occidental has interests in seven gas-producing
licenses and one exploration license in the Dutch sector of the North Sea.
Also acquired was a 38.6 percent interest in a 110-mile gas pipeline system
that services the area. Net production for 1996 was approximately 73 MMcf of
gas per day.
 
  OMAN Occidental is the operator, with a 65 percent working interest, of the
Suneinah Block, which contains the Safah field and six small fields along the
southern border of the block. Exploration and field development will continue
in 1997. Occidental's net share of production from the block in 1996 averaged
approximately 13,400 barrels per day of crude oil, compared with 12,000
barrels per day in 1995.
 
  PAKISTAN In southern Pakistan, Occidental has a 30 percent working interest
in the Badin Block, which in 1996 produced a net share of 6,400 barrels of oil
per day and 43 MMcf of gas per day, compared to 6,000 barrels of oil per day
and 49 MMcf of gas per day in 1995. Exploration of the block resulted in two
oil and gas discoveries that will help maintain production at current rates.
 
  In addition, Occidental holds exploration rights for a 356,000-acre block in
northern Pakistan and for two contiguous blocks in the Central Indus gas basin
totaling 2.9 million acres. Seismic exploration of the Northern Pakistan Salt
Range block has delineated several prospects, and drilling will occur in one
such prospect in 1997.
 
  PERU Occidental conducts exploration and production activities under four
separate service contracts with the Peruvian government. One of these
contracts, in which Occidental retains all the interest, covers continuing
operations in the northern jungle and provides for Occidental to receive, as
compensation for its services, fees, based on barrels of production, that vary
with the value of a "basket" of international oils. All production is
delivered to Perupetro, the Peruvian national oil company.
 
  Occidental owns a 65 percent interest and a 50 percent interest,
respectively, in two contiguous exploration blocks totalling 4.4 million
acres. The remaining contract in which Occidental has a 100 percent interest
covers a 2-million-acre block in the Hualluga Basin. The contract for the
Talara producing operation in Peru expired in July 1996 and was not renewed.
 
  Gross production from the northern jungle block averaged approximately
52,300 barrels per day in 1996, compared with 55,000 barrels per day in 1995.
Occidental's net production in Peru amounted to approximately 53,700 barrels
per day in 1996, compared to 58,000 barrels per day in 1995.
 
  QATAR In October 1994, a unified agreement was approved authorizing
Occidental to implement a development plan to increase production and reserves
from the Idd el Shargi North Dome field.
 

 
  Under a production-sharing agreement, Occidental is the operator of the
field and will complete development of the field's three main reservoirs using
horizontally drilled wells in conjunction with pressure maintenance by both
water injection and gas injection to effect a high recovery from the
reservoir. Average production increased from approximately 20,000 net barrels
per day for 1995 to approximately 38,000 net barrels per day for 1996. Proved
developed and undeveloped project reserves are presently estimated by
Occidental to be approximately 207 million barrels.
 
  RUSSIA In 1992, Occidental and AAOT Chernogorneft Enterprise began operation
of a 50 percent owned joint venture company, Vanyoganneft, which was formed to
increase oil recovery and production from the Vanyogan and Ayogan oil fields
and to sell the oil to foreign markets. The two oil fields are located 40
miles northeast of the city of Nizhnevartovsk in the western Siberian oil
basin. During 1996, gross production averaged 50,800 barrels per day.
Approximately 27 percent of such oil was exported in 1996. Occidental expects
to continue exports of some of its oil production in 1997.
 
  In 1992, Occidental was awarded the 1.5-million-acre Block 15 in the Russian
Federation's Komi Republic. A joint venture, Parmaneft, was established
between Occidental, which owns a 75 percent interest, and
Ukhtaneftegasgeologica to explore for oil and gas and develop discoveries
within the block. During the exploration phase, Occidental is paying 100
percent of the costs. In 1996 Occidental results included a $105 million
charge, reflecting the write-down of its investment in Komi, although certain
drilling has continued to satisfy contractual obligations.
 
  VENEZUELA In November 1993, Occidental executed a 20-year operating services
agreement with Maraven, an affiliate of the Venezuelan national oil company,
to increase oil production and reserves from existing fields in the 968,000-
acre unit just west of Lake Maracaibo. Occidental is the operator, with a 100
percent interest, and receives, as compensation for its services, fees based
on barrels of production that vary with the values of a "basket" of
international oils, inflation and accumulated production. A three-year work
program, completed in early 1997, included the workover and repair of existing
wells, the drilling of new wells, the installation of high-rate pumping
equipment in all wells and the expansion of existing production facilities to
accommodate increased production. Occidental achieved further production
increases in 1996, with production averaging 27,200 barrels per day for 1996,
compared to 20,900 barrels per day for 1995.
 
  YEMEN In 1991, Occidental acquired an 18 percent working interest in the
310,000-acre Masila Block (although the block consisted at one time of 6.8
million acres, substantial territory was relinquished in 1995 and 1996), where
CanadianOxy, the operator, with a 52 percent working interest, has made 12 oil
discoveries. Production started in July 1993. Occidental's net share under a
production-sharing contract was 14,700 barrels per day compared to 15,200
barrels per day in 1995. Drilling will continue until the fields are fully
developed. Occidental also has a 100 percent working interest in a production-
sharing contract in a central Yemen exploration block.
 
  OTHER INTERNATIONAL EXPLORATION Several of the projects listed below would
involve substantial expenditures and several years would be required to
complete project development.
 
  In 1992, a substantial oil and gas discovery was made in the Malampaya
prospect on Block SC-38 offshore northwest Palawan Island in the Philippines.
Appraisal wells confirmed that the 1989 Camago discovery by Occidental and the
Malampaya discovery contain sufficient recoverable gas for a commercial project.
Occidental has a 50 percent working interest in this project. Occidental and its
partner, Shell Philippines Exploration Corporation, the operator, have signed a
memorandum of understanding with the National Power Corporation of the Republic
of the Philippines to investigate the repowering of an idle nuclear plant in
Bataan with natural gas.
 
  In East Malaysia, Occidental has made significant gas discoveries offshore
Sarawak. In 1995, agreements were executed with its partners for the
commercialization of these discoveries. A joint venture company will be owned
by Occidental and its partners, PETRONAS, the Malaysian national oil company,
Shell Gas B.V. and Nippon Oil Company to construct the country's third
liquefied natural gas ("LNG") plant. Feedstock for the
 

 
plant initially will come from the Jintan discovery containing recoverable gas
estimated at 2.9 Tcf. Occidental is the operator, with a 37.5 percent interest
in the gas discoveries. Occidental will have a 10 percent interest in the new
LNG plant. The partners began the detailed upstream facility design in 1996.
The estimated start-up date of the LNG plant is the year 2001.
 
  In Indonesia, Occidental has a 22.9 percent interest in the Berau Block,
offshore Irian Jaya, where appraisal of five major natural gas discoveries by
ARCO, the operator, will continue into 1997 to determine if the natural gas
reserves are sufficient to justify construction of an LNG plant on Irian Jaya.
 
  In addition, Occidental acquired new exploration blocks in Albania, Peru and
Papua New Guinea. During 1997, exploration activities are planned in these
areas as well as on previously acquired blocks in Albania, Bangladesh, China,
Colombia, Gabon, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, the Philippines and Russia.
 
Special Item in 1996
 
  Financial results for 1996 included a charge of $105 million, reflecting the
write-down of Occidental's oil and gas exploration project in the Republic of
Komi in the former Soviet Union.
 
Reserves, Production and Related Information
 
  Reference is made to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
the information incorporated under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas
Information" incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this report for
information with respect to Occidental's oil and gas reserves, the production
from and other changes in such reserves, the discounted present value of
estimated future net cash flows therefrom, certain costs and other financial
and statistical information regarding Occidental's oil and gas exploration and
production operations. Estimates of reserves have been made by Occidental
engineers and include reserves under which Occidental holds an economic
interest under service contracts and other arrangements. The definitions used
are in accordance with applicable Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations. Accordingly, proved oil and gas reserves are those estimated
quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological
and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty will be recoverable
in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating
conditions. Proved developed oil and gas reserves are proved reserves that can
be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and
operating methods. Unless otherwise stated, all references to reserves are
made on a net basis. On March 31, 1996, Occidental reported to the U.S.
Department of Energy (the "DOE") on Form EIA-28 the same proved oil and gas
reserves at December 31, 1995, as are set forth for that date in the
information incorporated under the caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas
Information" contained in Occidental's 1995 Annual Report.
 
NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION OPERATIONS
 
General
 
  Through MidCon Corp. ("MidCon"), Occidental engages in interstate and
intrastate natural gas transmission and marketing and electric power
marketing. MidCon's subsidiaries purchase, transport, store and process gas
and sell gas to utilities, municipalities and industrial and commercial users.
 
  The principal subsidiaries of MidCon are Natural Gas Pipeline Company of
America ("Natural"), which owns a major interstate pipeline transmission
system; MidCon Texas Pipeline Operator, Inc. ("MidCon Texas"), which operates
an intrastate pipeline system in Texas, now owned by other Occidental
subsidiaries (see "MidCon ESOP" below); MidCon Gas Services Corp. ("MidCon
Gas"), which engages in the purchase and sale of gas and arranges for the
transportation and storage of such gas; and MidCon Power Services Corp.
("MidCon Power"), which purchases electricity from electric utilities and
other electric power producers and marketers, resells electricity to wholesale
customers and arranges for the transmission of such power. Another
 

 
subsidiary of MidCon processes natural gas. Through subsidiaries, MidCon also
owns interests in several gas pipeline joint ventures.
 
  Natural is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (the "FERC"). The FERC regulates, among other things, rates and
charges for transportation and storage of gas in interstate commerce, the
construction and operation of interstate pipeline facilities and the accounts
and records of interstate pipelines. Certain of MidCon Texas' rates and other
aspects of its business are subject to regulation by the Texas Railroad
Commission.
 
  A series of orders (collectively, "Order 636") were adopted by the FERC in
1992 to address certain marketing advantages purportedly enjoyed by interstate
pipelines over other resellers of gas, mandates that interstate pipelines no
longer provide a "bundled" service using their gas transportation and storage
facilities as part of marketing gas to sales customers. As a consequence,
Natural eliminated its traditional gas sales service to customers effective
December 1, 1993, and no longer needed gas supplies to meet sales
requirements. Thus, Natural incurred gas supply realignment ("GSR") costs in
order to terminate or otherwise resolve its obligations under its gas supply
contracts. Natural reached settlement agreements with former customers
providing for recovery of a significant amount of its GSR costs. Under these
settlements, which were approved by the FERC, Natural, through monthly demand
charge billings, recovers GSR costs allocated to these customers over a 48-
month period that began in December 1993. The FERC also permitted Natural to
implement a tariff mechanism to recover additional portions of its GSR costs
in rates charged to transportation customers that are not party to the
settlements.
 
MidCon ESOP
 
  In November 1996, Occidental established the MidCon Corp. Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (the "MidCon ESOP") for the benefit of employees of MidCon.
Pursuant to the MidCon ESOP, Occidental has issued 1,400,000 shares of its
Cumulative MidCon-Indexed Convertible Preferred Stock (the "CMIC Preferred
Stock") to the MidCon Corp. ESOP Trust.
 
  The CMIC Preferred Stock is designed to track the value of MidCon, which
remains a wholly-owned subsidiary of Occidental. The MidCon ESOP paid for the
CMIC Preferred Stock with a $1.4 billion 30-year promissory note (the "ESOP
Note") guaranteed by MidCon. Dividends on the CMIC Preferred Stock are payable
at an annual rate of $21 per share, when and as declared by Occidental's Board
of Directors. It is anticipated that MidCon will make annual contributions
from its operating cash flow to the MidCon ESOP which, together with the
annual dividends, will be used to repay the ESOP Note due to Occidental.
 
Properties
 
  Natural's principal facilities consist of two major interconnected
transmission pipelines terminating in the Chicago metropolitan area. One line,
which extends from west Texas and New Mexico producing areas, includes
approximately 6,600 miles of main pipeline and various small-diameter lines.
The other line extends from the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana and
comprises approximately 4,900 miles of main pipeline and various small-
diameter lines. These two main pipelines are connected at points in Texas and
Oklahoma by Natural's 240-mile Amarillo/Gulf Coast ("A/G") Pipeline. A 105-
mile pipeline runs from the Arkoma Basin gas producing area of eastern
Oklahoma to the A/G Pipeline.
 
  Nine underground storage fields are operated in four states to provide
services to Natural's customers and to support pipeline deliveries during the
winter, when space heating demand is higher.
 
  MidCon Texas operates an intrastate pipeline system, located primarily in
the Texas Gulf Coast area, which it leases from an affiliate under a 30-year
lease. The system includes approximately 2,600 miles of pipelines, supply
lines, sales laterals and related facilities. A subsidiary of MidCon Gas owns
a separate Texas intrastate pipeline system (the "Palo Duro System") that
includes approximately 400 miles of pipeline and related
 

 
facilities. The Palo Duro System is leased to a nonaffiliate. MidCon Texas
operates a gas storage facility in south Texas that it leases from a
partnership in which a subsidiary of MidCon Gas owns an interest.
 
Markets, Sales, Transportation, Storage and Processing
 
  The location of MidCon's pipelines provides access to large market areas, to
most other major pipeline systems and to nearly all major North American
producing areas. This permits delivery of natural gas directly or by
displacement to pipeline systems serving most of the United States.
 
  Deliveries of gas by MidCon's pipelines include both volumes sold by the
pipelines and their marketing affiliates and volumes owned by others which are
transported. The following table sets forth in Bcf the gas volumes sold to, or
transported for, nonaffiliates by Natural, MidCon Texas and MidCon Gas for
each of the last three calendar years:
 

 
  Sales volumes shown in the foregoing table for MidCon Texas include sales
deliveries by a marketing affiliate to nonaffiliates. The table does not
include gas transported by Natural for affiliates for sale to nonaffiliates of
approximately 220 Bcf in 1996, 221 Bcf in 1995 and 220 Bcf in 1994. The table
also does not show volumes of gas that have been auctioned by Natural
following the termination of its traditional gas sales service on December 1,
1993.
 
  As a consequence of Order 636, Natural's sales service agreements were
replaced in December 1993 principally with service agreements for combined
transportation and storage services provided to former customers. These
combined transportation and storage agreements, in turn, terminated on
December 1, 1995. Contracts for new services that included new combined
transportation and storage service options were entered with those customers,
but several were renewed at reduced service levels and reduced rates.
Customers purchasing this combined service pay monthly demand charges
irrespective of gas volumes actually transported and stored. In addition,
Natural is authorized to assess separate monthly demand charges to these
customers to recover a portion of Natural's GSR costs.
 
  Approximately 85 percent of Natural's pipeline capacity to Chicago remains
subscribed for long-term firm transportation service. Natural was able to sell
on a short-term basis substantially all of the remaining unsubscribed capacity
during the 1995-96 and 1996-97 winter heating seasons.
 
  In June 1995, Natural filed a general rate case with the FERC to allow
Natural to institute tariff changes to reflect the new transportation and
storage services it planned to institute in December 1995 and to approve rates
for these new services. By orders issued by the FERC, these new rates became
effective on December 1, 1995, subject to potential adjustment upon final
resolution of issues in the rate case. In May 1996, Natural filed a settlement
with the FERC to resolve all rate case issues. Natural currently is engaged in
negotiations with one intervenor group in an effort to obtain unanimous
support for the proposed settlement.
 
  Pursuant to transportation agreements and FERC tariff provisions, Natural
offers both firm transportation service and interruptible transportation
service. Under Natural's tariff, firm transportation customers pay reservation
charges each month, irrespective of volumes actually transported.
Interruptible transportation customers pay a monthly commodity charge based
upon actual volumes transported. Reservation and commodity
 

 
charges are both based upon geographical location, time of year and distance
of the transportation service provided. In addition, as in the case of the
combined service described above, Natural is authorized to assess separate
monthly demand charges to firm transportation customers to recover a portion
of the GSR costs.
 
  Natural also provides firm and interruptible gas storage service pursuant to
storage agreements and FERC-approved tariffs. Firm storage customers pay a
monthly demand charge irrespective of actual volumes stored. Interruptible
storage customers pay a monthly commodity charge based upon actual volumes of
gas stored.
 
  Natural transports a substantial portion of the natural gas delivered into
its principal market, the Chicago metropolitan area. The Chicago area
deliveries were primarily to three major gas distribution utility companies.
 
  Natural's transportation competitors in the Chicago metropolitan area
consist of other interstate pipelines that own facilities in the vicinity.
Natural faces increased competition in this market as other pipelines consider
expansion projects to increase their capability to serve the Chicago area. In
August 1996, Natural received preliminary approval, subject to environmental
review, from the FERC to expand its existing pipeline system from Harper,
Iowa, to Chicago. This expansion, plus existing capacity, would accommodate
more than 500 MMcf per day of new gas supplies to be delivered through a
proposed expansion of the system of Northern Border Pipeline Company
("Northern Border"), a competitor, that transports gas originating in western
Canada. Northern Border has also received preliminary approval, subject to
environmental review, from the FERC for its pipeline expansion as well as an
extension of its pipeline system from its existing terminus near Harper to the
Chicago area. Natural is opposed to the "rolled-in" rate structure proposed
for the Northern Border extension and also argues that, from an environmental
standpoint, the Northern Border extension is less favorable than a further
expansion of Natural's system. In December 1996, Alliance Pipeline L.P. filed
an application with the FERC for authority to construct a new pipeline from
the Saskatchewan/North Dakota border to the Chicago area. Natural has opposed
the application. If Northern Border builds its proposed extension into the
Chicago area, service may begin within two to three years. Natural expects to
mitigate any negative impact over time with additional market growth and
expansion of capacity to move volumes east.
 
  Natural also furnishes transportation service for others to and from many
other locations on its pipeline system and, in recent years, has increased
transportation deliveries to markets outside the Chicago metropolitan area.
Competition for such service may be provided by one or more other pipelines,
depending upon the nature of the transportation service required.
Transportation rates, service options and available pipeline capacity and, in
some cases, the availability of, and rates for, storage services are the key
factors in determining Natural's ability to compete for particular
transportation business.
 
  In 1996, Trailblazer Pipeline Company ("Trailblazer"), a partnership in
which a subsidiary of Natural owns a one-third interest, signed 10-year
agreements with six shippers for additional firm transportation service. To
accommodate these additional service requirements, Trailblazer has sought
approval from the FERC to install compression to increase pipeline capacity by
approximately 104 MMcf per day. The new compression facilities are anticipated
to be in service during the summer of 1997. Trailblazer's system runs from
eastern Colorado to eastern Nebraska and transports gas produced in the Rocky
Mountains. Natural is the operator of the pipeline. Trailblazer moved
approximately 194 Bcf of gas in 1996, a record for the 14-year old line.
 
  In January 1997, Natural and a subsidiary of NIPSCO Industries, Inc.
completed construction of a 100-MMcf-per-day pipeline interconnection in the
Chicago metropolitan area between their respective pipeline systems. The
interconnection provides Natural an additional connection to pipelines serving
markets east of Chicago.
 
  MidCon Texas makes sales principally to customers located in the Houston-
Beaumont and Port Arthur area of Texas and provides transportation service
within the State of Texas. Intense competition exists among numerous suppliers
for sales of gas to customers in MidCon Texas' sales markets. Price is the
primary competitive factor. At most locations on its system, MidCon Texas
faces competition from other pipelines for gas transportation business.
Transportation rates and available pipeline capacity are generally the key
factors in determining MidCon Texas' ability to compete for transportation
business.
 

 
  The rates for MidCon Texas' city-gate sales are subject to regulation by the
Texas Railroad Commission. Other sales and transportation rates are determined
by prevailing market conditions and are largely unregulated. Transportation
service is provided by MidCon Texas on both a firm and an interruptible basis.
In January 1996, MidCon Texas entered into agreements with a major south Texas
producer to purchase and transport 274 billion cubic feet of gas over a five-
year period. In August 1996, MidCon Texas completed construction of a 68-mile
pipeline to connect its existing pipeline system to these gas reserves.
 
  MidCon Gas makes sales of gas to local distribution companies, other
marketing companies and large commercial and industrial end users. Sales
prices received by MidCon Gas are established by negotiation. MidCon Gas uses
gas futures contracts, options and swaps to hedge the impact of natural gas
price fluctuations. MidCon Gas also offers a variety of fuel management
services to utilities and other large volume gas users. During 1996, MidCon
Gas provided gas portfolio management services to four large local
distribution companies and to a large steel company. MidCon Gas has formed a
new marketing subsidiary, "mc2", to target gas sales to commercial and small
industrial customers. Initial product marketing begins in the Chicago and New
York City metropolitan areas in 1997.
 
  MidCon was granted a permit by Mexico to construct approximately 100 miles
of pipeline from the United States to Monterrey, Mexico. This is the first
pipeline transportation permit since Mexico amended its Constitution to
provide for private ownership of gas pipelines and storage systems. When
built, this pipeline will deliver up to 270 MMcf per day of gas to local
distribution companies, industrial customers and electricity generators.
 
  In 1996, MidCon Power sold approximately 600,000 megawatt hours of
electricity to wholesale customers. In 1997, MidCon Power anticipates
participating in several electric sales pilot programs initiated by various
state utility regulators as initial steps toward opening up retail electric
sales markets to competition.
 
  During 1996, MidCon subsidiaries sold approximately 174 million gallons of
natural gas liquids obtained through gas processing operations.
 
Gas Supply
 
  As a part of its service restructuring pursuant to Order 636, Natural
reduced substantially the amount of gas supplies it has under contracts
expiring over the next several years.
 
  MidCon Texas purchases its gas supplies from producers and, to a lesser
extent, from other pipeline companies or their subsidiaries. MidCon Gas
purchases gas supplies from Natural at auction and from producers and other
gas marketers. MidCon Gas maintains inventories of gas supplies in storage
facilities of its affiliates and other pipeline companies. It had
approximately 100 Bcf of working gas storage capacity available under various
arrangements at the beginning of the 1996-97 winter heating season.
 
Pipeline Ventures
 
  Through subsidiaries, MidCon owns interests of 20 to 50 percent in three
pipeline ventures that operate approximately 530 miles of pipeline in the Gulf
of Mexico and interests, of varying percentages, in approximately 260 miles of
jointly owned supply laterals that also operate in the Gulf of Mexico. The
ventures transport gas onshore from producers in the offshore Louisiana and
Texas areas for various customers. Other subsidiaries of MidCon own interests
of 18 and 33 1/3 percent, respectively, in two onshore pipeline ventures.
These ventures operate approximately 520 miles of pipelines in Wyoming,
Colorado and Nebraska.
 
CHEMICAL OPERATIONS
 
General
 
  Occidental conducts its chemical operations through Occidental Chemical
Corporation and its various subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively,
"OxyChem"). OxyChem manufactures and markets a variety of basic chemicals,
petrochemicals, polymers and plastics and specialty chemicals.
 

 
  A substantial portion of OxyChem's products are principally commodity in
nature, i.e., they are equivalent to products manufactured by others that are
generally available in the marketplace and are produced and sold in large
volumes, primarily to industrial customers for use as raw materials. Many of
OxyChem's manufacturing operations are integrated, and many of its products
are both sold to others and further processed by OxyChem into other chemical
products. As a counterbalance to the commodity business, Occidental organized
the Specialty Business Group in 1995. The Specialty Business Group focuses on
smaller volume specialty and intermediate chemical markets where OxyChem's
product may be more readily differentiated and enjoy a particular market
niche. Demand for specialty chemical products is less cyclical than commodity
products and specialty products are expected to provide a more steady source
of earnings.
 
  OxyChem also has added capacity at several of its facilities over the past
few years through "debottlenecking" projects, which expand or modify portions
of existing facilities that had previously limited production, thus adding
incremental capacity at a relatively low cost.
 
  In April 1996, OxyChem completed the acquisition of a 64 percent equity
interest (on a fully-diluted basis) in INDSPEC Holding Corporation, and,
indirectly, its sole operating subsidiary INDSPEC Chemical Corporation
("INDSPEC") for approximately $92 million, with $87 million in common stock
and the balance in cash. Under the terms of the transaction, INDSPEC's
management and employees have retained voting control of INDSPEC. INDSPEC is
the largest producer of resorcinol in the world and the sole commercial
producer in the United States. Resorcinol is a chemical used primarily as a
bonding and stiffening agent in the manufacture of tires and tread rubber. In
addition, resorcinol is used in the manufacture of high-performance wood
adhesives, ultraviolet stabilizers, sunscreens, dyestuffs, pharmaceuticals,
agrichemicals, carbonless paper and fire retardant plastic additives.
 
  Also in April 1996, OxyChem completed the sale of certain international
phosphate fertilizer trading operation assets. These assets were sold for
notes receivable of approximately $20 million and did not result in a material
gain or loss.
 
  In August 1996, OxyChem acquired three specialty chemical units: Laurel
Industries, Inc.; Natural Gas Odorizing, Inc.; and a plant from Power Silicates
Manufacturing, Inc. ("Power Silicates"). These acquisitions were made in
separate transactions for approximately $149 million, through the issuance of
5,512,355 shares of Occidental common stock with a value of approximately $130
million, with the remainder paid in cash. Laurel Industries, Inc. was
acquired from private investors, and is North America's largest producer of
antimony oxide at its LaPorte, Texas, facility. Antimony oxide is used as a
polymerization catalyst in the manufacture of polyethylene terephthalate
resins and as a flame retardant in plastics, where it complements an OxyChem
flame retardant synergist, DechPlus(R). Natural Gas Odorizing, Inc. was
purchased from Helmerich & Payne, and is the leading U.S. producer of
mercaptan-based warning agents for use in natural gas and propane. The plant
is located in Baytown, Texas. In addition, a plant in Augusta, Georgia, was
purchased from Power Silicates, which produces sodium silicates for use in
soap and detergent formulating, paper manufacturing and silica-based catalysts
and will augment OxyChem's five existing silicates plants by its presence in
the growing southeast U.S. market.
 
  OxyChem's operations are affected by cyclical factors in the general
economic environment and by specific chemical industry conditions. The
chemical industry in the United States was characterized in 1996 by lower
sales prices and higher feedstock and energy costs resulting in lower margins
for many chemical products, including those manufactured by OxyChem. The
integration strategy adopted by OxyChem permitted it to maintain relatively
high operating rates in 1996, with similar operating rates expected to
continue for 1997.
 
  OxyChem's operations also have been affected by environmental regulation and
associated costs. See the information appearing under the caption
"Environmental Regulation" in this report.
 

 
Principal Products
 
  OxyChem produces the following chemical products:
 
   
 
                                                  (Table continued on next page)
 

 
 
 
  Based in part on statistics in chemical industry publications, Occidental
believes that during 1996: it was the largest United States merchant marketer
of chlorine and caustic soda; including OxyMar (OxyChem's joint venture with
Marubeni) the second-largest United States producer of vinyl chloride monomer;
the fourth-largest producer of PVC resins in North America (and will, upon
completion of the Pasadena PVC plant expansion in mid-1997, be the third
largest producer of PVC resins in the United States); the largest producer of
chrome chemicals and phenolic molding compounds; the second-largest producer
of sodium silicates; including its PD Glycol joint venture with DuPont, the
third-largest producer of ethylene glycols; the seventh-largest producer of
ethylene; and the largest supplier to the DOT-3 brake fluids aftermarket in
the United States. Additionally, Occidental believes it was the world's
largest producer of potassium hydroxide and chlorinated isocyanurate products
and the world's largest marketer of ethylene dichloride.
 
Raw Materials
 
  Nearly all raw materials utilized in OxyChem's operations that are not
produced by OxyChem or acquired from affiliates are readily available from a
variety of sources. Most of OxyChem's key raw materials purchases are made
through short- and long-term contracts. OxyChem is not dependent on any single
nonaffiliated supplier for a material amount of its raw material or energy
requirements, subject to establishing alternative means of transportation or
delivery in the event of the termination of arrangements with existing
suppliers.
 
Patents, Trademarks and Processes
 
  OxyChem owns and licenses a large number of patents and trademarks and uses
a variety of processes in connection with its operations, some of which are
proprietary and some of which are licensed. OxyChem does not regard its
business as being materially dependent on any single patent or trademark it
owns or licenses or any process it uses.
 
Sales and Marketing
 
  OxyChem's products are sold primarily to industrial users or distributors
located in the United States, largely by its own sales force. OxyChem sells
its products principally at current market or current market-related prices
through short- and long-term sales agreements. Except for sales in the export
market, OxyChem generally does not use spot markets to sell products. No
significant portion of OxyChem's business is dependent on a single customer.
In general, OxyChem does not manufacture its products against a backlog of
firm orders; production is geared primarily to the level of incoming orders
and to projections of future demand.
 
Competition
 
  The chemical business is very competitive. Since most of OxyChem's products
are commodity in nature, they compete primarily on the basis of price, quality
characteristics and timely delivery. Because OxyChem's products generally do
not occupy proprietary positions, OxyChem endeavors to be an efficient, low-
cost producer through the employment of modern, high-yield plants, equipment
and technology. OxyChem's size and the number and location of its plants also
produce competitive advantages, principally in its ability to meet customer
specifications and delivery requirements.
 

 
Properties
 
  OxyChem, which is headquartered in Dallas, Texas, operates 32 chemical
product manufacturing facilities in the United States. Many of the larger
facilities are located in the Gulf Coast areas of Texas and Louisiana. In
addition, OxyChem operates 11 chemical product manufacturing facilities in
seven foreign countries, with the most significant foreign plants being in
Brazil. A number of additional facilities process, blend and store the
chemical products. OxyChem uses an extensive fleet of barges and railroad cars
and owns and operates a pipeline network of over 950 miles along the Gulf
Coast of Texas for the transportation of ethylene, propylene and feedstocks.
 
  All of OxyChem's manufacturing facilities are owned or leased on a long-term
basis.
 
Special Items in 1996
 
  Chemical division earnings included the pretax gain of $170 million related
to favorable litigation settlements, and a charge of $75 million for
additional environmental reserves relating to various existing sites, and the
related state tax effects.
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
 
  Occidental's oil and gas operations, based on depletable resources, are
capital intensive, involving large-scale expenditures. In particular, in the
search for and development of new reserves, long lead times are often
required. In addition, Occidental's other businesses require capital
expenditures to remain competitive and to comply with safety and environmental
laws. Occidental's capital expenditures for its ongoing businesses totaled
approximately $1.2 billion in 1996, $979 million in 1995 and $1.1 billion in
1994, exclusive of the noncash consideration for acquisitions. The 1996 amount
included capital expenditures aggregating $762 million for oil and gas,
$262 million for chemical and $147 million for natural gas transmission.
Occidental's total capital expenditures, exclusive of acquisitions, if any,
for 1997 are expected to approximate $1.34 billion, with $900 million for oil
and gas, the majority of which is for international oil and gas operations.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  Occidental and its subsidiaries employed a total of 14,270 persons at
December 31, 1996, of whom 10,070 were located in the United States. 4,470
were employed in oil and gas operations, 1,730 in natural gas transmission
operations and 7,520 in chemical operations. An additional 550 persons were
employed at corporate headquarters. Approximately 1,500 U.S.-based employees
are represented by labor unions.
 
  Occidental has a long-standing policy to ensure that fair and equal
employment opportunities are extended to all persons without regard to race,
color, religion, ethnicity, gender, national origin, disability, age, sexual
orientation, veteran status or any other legally impermissible factor.
Occidental maintains numerous diversity and outreach programs which are in
effect at company locations.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
  Occidental's operations in the United States are subject to increasingly
stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to improving
or maintaining the quality of the environment. Foreign operations are also
subject to environmental protection laws. Applicable U.S. laws include the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as
amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste
Amendments, and similar state environmental laws. The laws that require or
address environmental remediation apply retroactively to previous waste
disposal practices and, in many cases, the laws apply regardless of fault,
legality of the original activities or ownership or control of sites.
Occidental is currently participating in environmental assessments and
cleanups under these laws at federal Superfund sites, comparable state sites
and other remediation sites, including Occidental facilities and previously
owned sites. Also, Occidental and certain of its subsidiaries have been
involved in a substantial number of governmental and private proceedings
involving historical practices at various sites, including, in some instances,
having been named as defendants, as potentially responsible parties
 

 
("PRPs"), or as both defendants and PRPs under the federal Superfund law.
These proceedings seek remediation, funding for remediation, or both, and, in
some cases, compensation for alleged personal injury or property damage,
punitive damages and civil penalties, aggregating substantial amounts.
 
  Occidental has accrued reserves for its environmental liabilities. As of
December 31, 1996 and 1995, Occidental had environmental reserves of
approximately $566 million and $582 million, respectively. Occidental provided
additional reserves of approximately $100 million in 1996, $21 million in 1995
and $5 million in 1994 for costs associated with expected remediation efforts
at a number of sites. The 1996 and 1995 amounts related primarily to the
chemical division. The 1994 amount related primarily to the oil and gas
division.
 
  Occidental's estimated operating expenses in 1996 relating to compliance
with environmental laws and regulations governing ongoing operations were
approximately $105 million, compared with $111 million in 1995 and $114
million in 1994. The 1996 amount included $59 million in the chemical
division, $41 million in the oil and gas division and $5 million in the
natural gas transmission division. In addition, capital expenditures for
environmental compliance were $89 million in 1996, compared with $74 million
in 1995 and $67 million in 1994. The 1996 amount included $54 million in the
oil and gas division, $27 million in the chemical division and $8 million in
the natural gas transmission division. Occidental presently estimates that
divisional capital expenditures for environmental compliance (including
environmental control facilities) will be in the range of $90 million to $100
million for each of 1997 and 1998.
 
ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  There is incorporated by reference herein the information regarding
lawsuits, claims and related matters in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
  On July 22, 1996, Occidental announced that a judgment of $742 million had
been entered in favor of its OXY USA Inc. ("OXY USA") subsidiary against
Chevron USA by the state district court in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The unanimous
verdict was for approximately $229 million in compensatory damages for breach
of a 1982 merger agreement and interest on these damages from 1982 to the date
of judgment. Interest has continued to accrue from July 19, 1996, in an amount 
of approximately $6 million per month. Chevron has appealed the decision to the 
Oklahoma Supreme Court, and, in connection with that appeal, has obtained an 
appeal bond to secure payment of any final judgment and accrued interest as 
required by Oklahoma law.
 
  In 1991, Continental Trend Resources obtained a jury verdict against OXY USA
in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma for $269,000
in actual damages and $30 million in punitive damages for tortious
interference with contract. In 1995, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th
Circuit affirmed the subsequent judgment. In 1996, the U.S. Supreme Court
granted OXY USA's petition for writ of certiorari, vacated the judgment and
remanded the action to the Court of Appeals for further consideration. In
November 1996, the Court of Appeals reduced the punitive damage award to $6
million and, alternatively, offered the plaintiffs a new trial on punitive
damages. The plaintiffs' motion for rehearing was denied and the plaintiffs
have sought a stay of mandate in order to petition the Supreme Court for a
writ of certiorari.
 
  MidCon Gas Services Corp. ("MidCon Gas") purchases transportation and
storage services from pipeline companies to support its gas sales business. A
significant amount of these services are purchased from Natural Gas Pipeline
Company of America ("Natural"). In January 1997, Amoco Production Company and
Amoco Trading Corporation (collectively, "Amoco"), filed a complaint against
Natural before the FERC contending that Natural improperly had provided MidCon
Gas transportation service on preferential terms. Amoco has requested, among
other things, that the FERC require Natural to terminate the transportation
services it provides to MidCon Gas. Natural believes it has treated all
shippers, including Amoco, fairly and it will vigorously defend its actions.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  In 1992, Occidental Chemical Corporation ("OCC") submitted to the
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") its report under EPA's Toxic
Substances Control Act Section 8(e) Compliance Audit Program (the
 

 
"Program"). Under the Program, numerous companies voluntarily submitted to the
EPA all studies meeting the EPA's thresholds for reporting information that
may indicate a substantial risk exists from any chemical that a company
manufactures, processes or distributes, and agreed to pay stipulated penalties
for previously unreported studies, with a maximum penalty of $1 million per
company. In 1996, OCC was assessed and paid a penalty of $869,000.
 
  In September 1996, the EPA filed an administrative Complaint against Natural
Gas Odorizing, Inc., which was recently acquired by Occidental, alleging
failure to file during 1994 an Inventory Update Report under the Toxic
Substance Control Act regarding its facility in Baytown, Texas, and proposed a
civil penalty of $136,000. OCC is engaged in settlement discussions with the
EPA.
 
  In October 1996, the West Virginia Division of Environmental Protection
filed a civil action in the Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia,
against OCC alleging violations of hazardous waste management regulations at
its Belle Plant, from October 1994 to September 1995. The Complaint seeks
civil penalties of up to $25,000 per violation per day and injunctive relief
requiring correction of the alleged violations. OCC is contesting the
allegations and proposed civil penalties.
 
ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matters were submitted to a vote of Occidental's security holders during
the fourth quarter of 1996.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 

 
                                                 (Table continued on next page)
 

 

 
  The current term of office of each Executive Officer will expire at the
April 25, 1997, organizational meeting of the Occidental Board of Directors or
at such time as his or her successor shall be elected.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
       MATTERS
 
Trading Price Range and Dividends
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the quarterly financial data
appearing under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data" and the information
appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis--Liquidity
and Capital Resources" in the 1996 Annual Report, relevant portions of which
1996 Annual Report are filed as Exhibit 13 to this report. Occidental's common
stock was held by approximately 107,750 stockholders of record at year-end
1996, with an estimated 165,000 additional stockholders whose shares were held
for them in street name or nominee accounts. The common stock is listed and
traded principally on the New York and Pacific stock exchanges and also is
listed on various foreign exchanges identified in the 1996 Annual Report. The
quarterly financial data on pages 61 and 62 of the 1996 Annual Report sets
forth the range of trading prices for the common stock as reported on the New
York Stock Exchange's composite tape and quarterly dividend information.
 
  The quarterly dividend rate for the common stock is $.25 per share. On
February 13, 1997, a dividend of $.25 per share was declared on the common
stock, payable on April 15, 1997 to stockholders of record on March 7, 1997.
Occidental is subject to certain financial covenants in instruments pertaining
to its long-term indebtedness which do not currently impose restrictions on
dividend policy. In 1992 Occidental entered into a settlement agreement with
certain private litigants which, among other things, imposed an obligation to
maintain the annual common stock dividend at no less than $1 per share through
1997, subject to the exercise by the Board of Directors of its fiduciary
obligations and the business judgment rule. Thus, the declaration of future
cash dividends is a business decision made by the Board of Directors from time
to time, and will depend on the foregoing considerations, earnings, financial
condition and other factors deemed relevant by the Board; however, Occidental
presently expects that dividends will continue to be paid.
 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
 
  During the previous three years commencing January 1, 1994, Occidental sold
the following securities which were not initially registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act").
 
  (1) In March 1994, Occidental acquired interests in certain U.S. Gulf Coast
oil and gas properties from Agip Petroleum Co. Inc. ("AGIP") for a purchase
price of $161 million through the issuance of 5,150,602 shares of Occidental
common stock and $78 million in cash.
 
  (2) In December 1994, Occidental acquired Placid Oil Company from certain
Hunt Family trusts (the "Trusts") for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $250 million through the issuance of 3,606,484 shares of $3.875
Cumulative Convertible Voting Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the
"Preferred Stock"), with a value of $175 million, and the balance through the
issuance of 3,835,941 shares of Occidental common stock.
 
  All or a portion of the shares held of the Preferred Stock is convertible at
the option of the holder thereof into such number of whole shares of common
stock as is equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of shares of
Preferred Stock ($50 per share) surrendered for conversion divided by the
Conversion Price, initially $22.76, subject to adjustment as described in the
governing Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights and in
Occidental's Registration Statement on Form 8-B/A (Amendment No. 5) dated
November 1, 1995.
 
  (3) In August 1996, Occidental acquired three specialty chemical units in
separate transactions for approximately $149 million through the issuance of
5,512,355 shares of Occidental common stock, with a value of approximately
$130 million, and the balance paid in cash. The acquisitions included Laurel
Industries, Inc. ("Laurel"), Natural Gas Odorizing, Inc. ("NGO"), and a plant
in Augusta, Georgia, purchased from Power Silicates Manufacturing, Inc. The
NGO shares were issued to its parent, Helmerich & Payne, Inc., while the
Laurel shares were issued to certain Laurel investors.
 

 
  (4) In November 1996, Occidental issued 1,400,000 shares of its Cumulative
MidCon-Indexed Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, to the
MidCon Corp. ESOP Trust for $1,400,000 in cash and a promissory note in the
principal amount of $1,398,600,000. For terms of conversion, reference is made
to Occidental's Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996, and the governing
Certificate of Designations filed as an exhibit thereto.
 
  The securities described in the paragraphs marked (1) through (4) above were
issued in reliance on the exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of
the Act, and the rules promulgated under the Act, as transactions not
involving a public offering. Each recipient of such securities stated that it
was its intent to acquire the securities for investment purposes. In each case
the recipient had access to Occidental's public financial information.
Appropriate restrictive legends were, in each case, affixed to the stock
certificates issued in each transaction. The shares of Occidental common stock
issued in the Agip, Laurel and NGO transactions were subsequently registered
for resale in secondary offering Registration Statements on Form S-3 filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Demand registration rights
granted to the Trusts in the Placid transaction have been exercised with
respect to certain shares of Occidental's common stock issued in such
transaction.
 
ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing under
the caption "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" in the 1996 Annual
Report.
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
       OF OPERATIONS
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing under
the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in the 1996 Annual Report.
 

 
ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
             INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION
 

 

 
                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors, Occidental Petroleum Corporation:
 
  We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in Occidental Petroleum
Corporation's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1996, incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and have issued our report
thereon dated January 31, 1997. Our audit was made for the purpose of forming
an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The financial statement
schedule listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Related Information
is the responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and
regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not a required
part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements
and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.



 
Los Angeles, California                   ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
January 31, 1997
 

 
               OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                                 (In millions)
 

 

 
ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information regarding
Occidental's directors appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" in
Occidental's definitive proxy statement filed in connection with its April 25,
1997, Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1997 Proxy Statement"). See also
the list of Occidental's executive officers and related information under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing under
the captions "Executive Compensation" (excluding, however, the information
appearing under the subcaptions "Report of the Compensation Committee" and
"Performance Graphs") and "Election of Directors--Information Regarding the
Board of Directors and Its Committees" in the 1997 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information with respect to
security ownership appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the 1997 Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  There is hereby incorporated by reference the information appearing under
the caption "Election of Directors--Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation" in the 1997 Proxy Statement.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) (1) AND (2). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
  Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements and Related
Information under Item 8 in Part II hereof, where these documents are listed.
 
(a) (3). EXHIBITS
 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  During the fourth quarter of 1996, Occidental filed the following Current
Reports on Form 8-K:
 
  1. Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 17, 1996 (date of earliest event
reported), filed on October 18, 1996, for the purpose of reporting, under Item
5, Occidental's results of operations for the third quarter ended September
30, 1996.
 
  2. Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996 (date of earliest
event reported), filed on November 21, 1996, for the purpose of reporting,
under Item 5, Occidental's implementation of the MidCon ESOP.
 
  During the first quarter of 1997 to the date hereof, Occidental filed the
following Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
  1. Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 23, 1997 (date of earliest event
reported), filed on January 24, 1997, for the purpose of reporting, under Item
5, Occidental's results of operations for the fourth quarter and fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
 
March 19, 1997                            By:         Ray R. Irani
                                            -----------------------------------
                                                      Ray R. Irani
                                           Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                              and Chief Executive Officer
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 

 

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
EXHIBITS
 
(a) (3). EXHIBITS
 

 
- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

 

- -------------------------------
* Incorporated herein by reference.
 

                               

                                                     EXHIBIT 10.41



                        MIDCON CORP.
                              
                SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
                              
               Effective as of January 1, 1997
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
053.msw                                                   11/13/96



                              
                        MIDCON CORP.
                        ------------
                SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
                ----------------------------
               Effective as of January 1, 1997
                              
                                            -----------------

   Article     Section                                      Page
   -------     -------                                      ----
     1         Establishment and Purpose
               -------------------------
          1.1  Establishment of Plan                         1
          1.2  Purpose of the Plan                           1
          1.3  Application of Plan                           1

     2         Definitions
               -----------
          2.1  Definitions                                   2
          2.2  Gender and Number                             4

     3         Eligibility and Participation
               ----------------------------- 
          3.1  Participation                                 5

     4         Benefits
               --------
          4.1  Allocations Relating to Retirement Plan,      6
               Supplemental Benefit Plan and
               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
          4.2  Contributions Relating to Retirement Plan,    6
               Supplemental Benefit Plan and
               Employee Stock Ownership Plan
          4.3  Allocations Relating to Savings Plan          7
          4.4  Contributions Relating to Savings Plan        7
          4.5  Maintenance of Accounts                       8
          4.6  Vesting and Forfeiture                        9
          4.7  Payment                                       9
          4.8  Death                                        10

     5         Administration
               --------------
          5.1  Administrative Committee                     11
          5.2  Uniform Rules                                11
          5.3  Notice of Address                            11
          5.4  Records                                      12

     6         Amendment and Termination
               -------------------------
          6.1  Amendment and Termination                    13
          6.2  Reorganization of Employer                   13
          6.3  Protected Benefits                           13

     7         General Provisions
               ------------------
          7.1  Nonassignability                             14
          7.2  Employment Rights                            14
          7.3  Illegality of Particular Provision           14
          7.4  Applicable Laws                              14
          7.5  Transfers Involving Occidental Petroleum
               Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan     15

                                 i



                        MIDCON CORP.
                        ------------
                SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
                ----------------------------
               Effective as of January 1, 1997
                              
                              
            Article 1.  Establishment and Purpose
            -------------------------------------



     1.1  Establishment of Plan.  MidCon Corp. (the "Company")
          ---------------------
hereby establishes this Plan effective as of January 1,  1997,

which  Plan  shall  be known as the MIDCON CORP.  SUPPLEMENTAL

RETIREMENT  PLAN  (the "Plan").  The Plan is  intended  to  be

exempt from the participation, vesting, funding, and fiduciary

requirements  of  Title  1 of the Employee  Retirement  Income

Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), as an unfunded plan maintained

primarily  for the purpose of providing deferred  compensation

for  a  select  group  of  management  or  highly  compensated

employees.



     1.2  Purpose of the Plan.  It is the purpose of this Plan
          -------------------
to   provide  eligible  employees  with  benefits  that   will

compensate them for maximums imposed by law upon contributions

to qualified plans.



      1.3   Application of Plan.  The terms of this  Plan  are
            ------------------- 
applicable to eligible employees employed by the Company on or

after January 1, 1997.




                              

                   Article 2.  Definitions
                   -----------------------




      2.1   Definitions.   Whenever  used  in  the  Plan,  the
            -----------
following  terms shall have the respective meanings set  forth

below,  unless a different meaning is required by the  context

in  which  the word is used, and when the defined  meaning  is

intended, the term is capitalized:

      (a)  "Administrative  Committee"   means  the  committee
           ---------------------------
            with authority  to administer the Plan as provided

            under section 5.1.

      (b)   "Beneficiary"    means   the   persons  designated
            -------------
            under  the Retirement Plan by the  Participant  to

            receive benefits in the event of his death.

      (c)   "Board  of  Directors"  means   the    Board    of
            ----------------------
            Directors of the Company.

      (d)   "Code"  means  the  Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            ------
      (e)   "Company"   means   MidCon   Corp.,   a   Delaware
            --------- 
            corporation, and any successor thereto.

      (f)   "Compensation"  means  the  base  salary   of  the
            --------------
            employee  as  stated in the payroll records  of  the

            Employer,  excluding any amounts paid  for  bonuses,

            income realized upon exercise of stock options,  and

            any other special pay which the Employer pays to the

            employee during the year, prior to reduction for any

            deferral of base salary under the Company's  Savings

            Plan,  1988 Deferred Compensation Plan or any  other

            qualified  or  non-qualified  deferred  compensation

            plan or agreement.  In the case of a Participant who

            became disabled prior to October 1, 1995 and who  is

            receiving  benefits  under the Long-Term  Disability

            Plan,  Compensation  shall be  his  base  salary  as

            described  above  in effect at the  time  he  became

            disabled,  as that term is defined in the  Long-Term

            Disability Plan.






      (g)   "Employee   Stock   Ownership   Plan"   means    the
            -------------------------------------
            MidCon Corp. Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

      (h)   "Employer"   means  (a)  the   Company,   (b)   each
            ----------
            affiliate  which is a subsidiary of the Company  and

            (c) any other affiliate or organizational unit which

            (i)  is designated as an Employer under the Plan  by

            the  Board  of  Directors or by  the  Administrative

            Committee  with respect to all or a specified  group

            of   employees  of  such  organizational   unit   or

            affiliate and (ii) adopts this Plan.

      (i)   "Long-Term    Disability     Plan"     means     the
            ----------------------------------
            OCCIDENTAL    PETROLEUM    CORPORATION     LONG-TERM

            DISABILITY PLAN, as amended from time to time.

      (j)   "Participant"    means    a   person   meeting   the
            ------------- 
            requirements  set forth in Article 3 to  participate

            in the Plan.

      (k)   "Retirement   Plan"    means    the    MIDCON  CORP.
            -------------------
            RETIREMENT PLAN, and as amended from time to time.

      (l)   "Savings Plan"  means  the   MIDCON   CORP.  SAVINGS
            --------------
            PLAN, as amended from time to time.

      (m)   "Senior  Executive   Supplemental  Retirement  Plan"
            ---------------------------------------------------- 
            means  the  OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION  SENIOR

            EXECUTIVE  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN, as  amended

            from time to time.

      (n)   "Subsidiary"    means   any  corporation   which  is
            ------------
            controlled by the Company.

      (o)   "Supplemental    Benefit     Plan"     means     the
            ----------------------------------
            OCCIDENTAL    PETROLEUM   CORPORATION   SUPPLEMENTAL

            BENEFIT PLAN, as amended from time to time.

      (p)   "Years   of   Service"   means  the number  of  full
            ----------------------
            years credited to a Participant under the Retirement

            Plan for vesting purposes.






      (q)   "1988   Deferred   Compensation   Plan"   means  the
            --------------------------------------- 
            OCCIDENTAL   PETROLEUM  CORPORATION  1988   DEFERRED

            COMPENSATION PLAN, as amended from time to time.



     2.2    Gender  and Number.  Except when otherwise indicated
            ------------------
by   the   context, any masculine terminology used herein  shall

also  include  the  feminine, and the use of any term herein  in

the singular may also include the plural.






          Article 3.  Eligibility and Participation
          -----------------------------------------




       3.1    Participation.   Any  employee  (other  than   a
              -------------
participant  in  the Senior Executive Supplemental  Retirement

Plan)  who is eligible to participate in the Savings Plan  and

the  Retirement  Plan and who, for a given plan  year  of  the

Savings  Plan,  would  be ineligible to  receive  the  maximum

employer  matching  contribution  under  section  5.1  of  the

Savings  Plan  due  to  the limitations  imposed  by  sections

401(a)(17) (which limits the amount of compensation which  may

be taken into account) or 415 of the Code (assuming the second

paragraph  of section 4.8 of the Retirement Plan is applicable

to the employee) shall become a Participant.



           In addition, any employee (other than a Participant

in  the  Senior  Executive Supplemental Retirement  Plan)  who

would  be  ineligible to receive the maximum employer matching

contribution under section 5.1 of the Savings Plan in  a  plan

year,  due  to  the  limitations described  in  the  preceding

paragraph,  on account of deferrals of base salary during  the

year  under the 1988 Deferred Compensation Plan (or any  other

nonqualified pension benefit plan sponsored by the Company  or

a Subsidiary in which the Participant participates) shall be a

Participant in this Plan for that plan year.



            Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein,  any

employee  who  is entitled to receive supplemental  retirement

benefits upon his retirement pursuant to a written contract of

employment between himself and the Company shall be ineligible

to  be  a  Participant effective upon the later of January  1,

1997 or January 1 of the year after the effective date of such

contractual provision.






                    Article 4.  Benefits
                    --------------------




       4.1    Allocations   Relating   to   Retirement   Plan,
              ------------------------------------------------
Supplemental  Benefit Plan and Employee Stock Ownership  Plan.
- -------------------------------------------------------------
A  credit shall be made as of the last day of each month to  a

contingent  account for each Participant.  The  amount  to  be

allocated shall equal the sum of (a) the amount which would be

allocated  to  the account of the Participant  for  the  month

under   the   Retirement  Plan,  based  on  the  Participant's

Compensation,   if  the  Participant  were  not   subject   to

provisions that withhold allocations until the end of the plan

year,  and  (b),  in  the  case of  a  Participant  who  is  a

participant in the Supplemental Benefit Plan, the amount which

cannot  be  accrued  under  section 4.1  of  the  Supplemental

Benefit  Plan during the month due to the limitations  imposed

by  section 401(a)(17) of the Code, and (c), in the case of  a

Participant  who  is  a  participant  in  the  Employee  Stock

Ownership  Plan, the value denominated in cash of  the  amount

which  cannot  be allocated under section 4.3 of the  Employee

Stock  Ownership  Plan  due  to  the  limitations  imposed  by

sections 415 and 401(a)(17) of the Code.



       4.2    Contributions  Relating  to   Retirement   Plan,
              ------------------------------------------------
Supplemental  Benefit Plan and Employee Stock Ownership  Plan.
- -------------------------------------------------------------
For  Participants  covered under this Plan, allocations  under

the  Retirement  Plan are determined at the end  of  the  plan

year,  to  the  extent allowable under Code limitations.   The

amounts  contingently credited under section  4.1  during  the

year  to a Participant shall be reduced by the amount actually

allocated  to his account under the Retirement Plan,  and  any

remaining amount shall be credited permanently to his  account

under  this Plan.  At the end of each year, the Employer shall

contribute to a grantor trust or similar arrangement  to  fund

benefits  hereunder an amount which shall equal such remaining

amounts permanently allocated to Participants hereunder.   The

Employer shall also contribute






and  permanently credit to each Participant's account earnings

on  contingent monthly allocations under section 4.1  for  the

year  as if such contingent allocations shared in earnings  at

the   rate  and  in  the  manner  described  in  section  4.5.

Notwithstanding  the foregoing, any earnings  attributable  to

the  Retirement Plan previously credited to the account  of  a

Participant under the Plan during the current or any preceding

plan  year  shall  be  reallocated  to  the  account  of   the

Participant under the Retirement Plan in any year when  it  is

permissible to do so under Code limitations.



      4.3   Allocations Relating to Savings  Plan.   A  credit
            -------------------------------------
shall  be  made  as of the last day of the plan  year  to  the

account  of  each Participant who, for that plan year  of  the

Savings  Plan,  makes  the  maximum deferral  or  contribution

permitted  under  Article 4 of the Savings  Plan  and  is  not

eligible to receive the maximum employer matching contribution

under  section 5.1 of the Savings Plan due to the  limitations

imposed by sections 401(a)(17) or 415 of the Code.  The amount

to  be  allocated under this Plan shall equal the amount which

cannot  be  allocated to the account of the Participant  under

the  Savings  Plan  for  the  plan  year  on  account  of  the

limitations imposed under the Code, reduced by any such amount

which is credited on behalf of the Participant under any other

Company nonqualified pension benefit plan, including the  1988

Deferred  Compensation Plan.  An additional  amount  equal  to

five  percent (5%) of the amount allocated to the  Participant

under  the  preceding  sentence shall  be  allocated  to  each

Participant  in lieu of interest on such amount for  the  plan

year.



     4.4  Contributions Relating to Savings Plan.  The amounts
          --------------------------------------
allocated  to a Participant under section 4.3 for a plan  year

shall  be credited permanently to his account under this Plan.

At  the end of each year, the Employer shall contribute  to  a

grantor   trust  or  similar  arrangement  to  fund   benefits

hereunder an amount which shall equal such amounts permanently

allocated to Participants hereunder.






     4.5  Maintenance of Accounts.
          -----------------------
          (a)   The     Employer    shall     establish     and

                maintain,  in  the name of each Participant, an

                individual  account  which shall consist of all

                amounts    permanently    credited    to    the

                Participant.  As of the end of each semimonthly

                processing period, the Administrative Committee

                shall increase or decrease the balance,  if any,

                of  the  Participant's individual account as  of

                the  last  day  of  the  preceding   semimonthly

                processing  period,  by multiplying such  amount

                by  a  number equal to  one plus .083% plus  the

                semimonthly  yield  on 5-Year Treasury  Constant

                Maturities   for  the   semimonthly   processing

                period.   As of  December 31st of each year  the

                Administrative  Committee shall then add to such

                account  balance,  any permanent  allocation  to

                which   the  Participant is  entitled  for  such

                year.



          (b)   The     individual     account      of      each

                Participant   shall   represent   a   liability,

                payable  when  due under this Plan, out  of  the

                general  assets  of the Employer,  or  from  the

                assets  of  any  trust,   custodial  account  or

                escrow   arrangement  which  the  Employer   may

                establish   for   the    purpose   of   assuring

                availability    of  funds  sufficient   to   pay

                benefits  under  this Plan.  The  money  in  any

                such  trust or account shall at all times remain

                the  property of the Employer,  and neither this

                Plan   nor  any   Participant  shall  have   any

                beneficial  ownership  interest  in  the  assets

                thereof.   No property or assets of the Employer

                shall  be  pledged,   encumbered,  or  otherwise

                subjected  to   a lien or security interest  for

                payment of






                benefits    hereunder.      Accounting     for

                this Plan shall be based on generally accepted

                accounting principles.



      4.6   Vesting and Forfeiture.  All benefits  under  this
            ----------------------
Plan  shall  be contingent and forfeitable and no  Participant

shall  have a vested interest in any benefit until one of  the

events listed below occurs while he is still employed with the

Employer:

     (a)  he completes five Years of Service;

     (b)  he attains age 60; or

     (c)  he  dies  or  becomes  disabled  (as  defined in the

          Retirement Plan).

      A person who terminates employment with the Employer for

any  reason  prior  to  becoming vested  hereunder  shall  not

receive a benefit.



       4.7    Payment.    Every  Participant  who   terminates
              -------
employment  shall, if vested, have his account distributed  to

him  as  soon  as  practicable following  his  termination  of

employment  under  one  of the following distribution  options

elected  by  the  Participant on  a  form  prescribed  by  the

Administrative Committee:

     (a)  One lump sum payment; or

     (b)  Annual  installment  payments  payable  over  5, 10,

          15,  or  20  years commencing in the  calendar  year

          following  the calendar year in which he  terminates

          employment.



          The election must be made by the Participant as soon

as practicable after his commencement of participation, but in

no  event later than the end of the calendar year thereof.  An

election  form  shall be provided to the Participant  in  non-

technical language and shall contain a general description  of

the  distribution options.  If a Participant fails to make  an

election  by  the  close  of the calendar  year  in  which  he

commenced participation, he will be






deemed to have elected to receive his benefits in the form  of

a lump sum payment pursuant to option (a) above.



           If benefits are to be paid in installments pursuant

to  option (b) above, the Participant's account will  continue

to  be  adjusted  until  any series of installments  has  been

completed.  The amount of each annual installment shall  equal

the  amount credited to the account as of January  31  of  the

year  in which the installment is to be paid multiplied  by  a

fraction,  the numerator of which is 1 and the denominator  of

which  is  the number of installments (including  the  current

one)  which remain to be paid.  Each installment shall be paid

on or before January 31 of the calendar year.



           Notwithstanding  anything else  contained  in  this

section  4.7,  no  Participant who is  eligible  for  Employer

provided long-term disability benefits and who became disabled

prior  to  October 1, 1995 shall be entitled to a distribution

of  benefits hereunder prior to the time long-term  disability

payments cease.



      4.8  Death.  The account of a Participant who dies while
           -----
employed by an Employer shall be paid in a single sum  to  the

Participant's Beneficiary as soon as administratively possible

following  the Participant's date of death.  If a  Participant

dies  after  termination  of employment,  then  his  surviving

Beneficiary  shall  be  paid the amount in  the  Participant's

account  in a single sum as soon as administratively  possible

following the Participant's date of death.






                 Article 5.  Administration
                 --------------------------




      5.1   Administrative  Committee.   This  Plan  shall  be
            -------------------------
administered  by  the committee appointed  to  administer  the

Retirement Plan (the "Administrative Committee").



The  interpretation  and construction  by  the  Administrative

Committee of any provisions of this Plan shall be final unless

otherwise  determined by the Board of Directors.   Subject  to

the  Board,  the  Administrative Committee  is  authorized  to

interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and

regulations   relating  to  it,  and   to   make   all   other

determinations necessary for its administration.



Without   limiting  the  generality  of  the  foregoing,   the

Administrative Committee shall have the authority to calculate

amounts allocable to Participants, and to maintain and  adjust

accounts.   The Administrative Committee shall have  authority

to  delegate  responsibility  for performance  of  ministerial

functions  necessary for administration of the  Plan  to  such

officers  of  the  Employer, including  Participants,  as  the

Administrative   Committee  shall  in  its   discretion   deem

appropriate.



      5.2   Uniform  Rules.  In administering  the  Plan,  the
            --------------
Administrative  Committee  will apply  uniform  rules  to  all

Participants similarly situated.



      5.3  Notice of Address.  Any payment to a Participant or
           -----------------
Beneficiary,  at the last known post office address  submitted

to  the Employer, shall constitute a complete acquittance  and

discharge  of  the Employer and any director or  officer  with

respect thereto.  Neither the






Employer  nor any director or officer shall have any  duty  or

obligation to search for or ascertain the whereabouts  of  any

Participant or his Beneficiary.



       5.4    Records.   The  records  of  the  Administrative
              -------
Committee with respect to the Plan shall be conclusive on  all

Participants,   all  Beneficiaries,  and  all  other   persons

whomsoever.






            Article 6.  Amendment and Termination
            -------------------------------------


      6.1  Amendment and Termination.  The Company expects the
           -------------------------
Plan  to  be permanent, but since future conditions  affecting

the  Company  cannot be anticipated or foreseen,  the  Company

must  necessarily and does hereby reserve the right to  amend,

modify,  or  terminate the Plan at any time by action  of  its

Board of Directors, except that no amendment shall reduce  the

dollar amount credited to a Participant's account and any such

termination  or  amendment  shall  apply  uniformly   to   all

Participants.  The Administrative Committee in its  discretion

may  amend the Plan if it finds that such amendment  does  not

significantly increase or decrease benefits or costs.



      6.2   Reorganization of Employer.  In  the  event  of  a
            --------------------------
merger  or  consolidation of the Employer, or the transfer  of

substantially  all  of the assets of the Employer  to  another

corporation,   such   continuing,  resulting   or   transferee

corporation shall have the right to continue and carry on  the

Plan  and  to assume all liabilities of the Employer hereunder

without   obtaining   the  consent  of  any   Participant   or

Beneficiary.   If such successor shall assume the  liabilities

of the Employer hereunder, then the Employer shall be relieved

of all such liability, and no Participant or Beneficiary shall

have  the  right to assert any claim against the Employer  for

benefits under or in connection with this Plan.



      6.3   Protected Benefits.  If the Plan is terminated  or
            ------------------
amended so as to prevent further earnings adjustments,  or  if

liabilities  accrued  hereunder up to the  date  of  an  event

specified  in section 6.2 are not assumed by the successor  to

the  Employer, then the dollar amount in the account  of  each

Participant, or Beneficiary (whether or not vested)  shall  be

paid  in  cash to such Participant or Beneficiary in a  single

sum on the last day of the second month following the month in

which the amendment or termination occurs.






               Article 7.  General Provisions
               ------------------------------




      7.1  Nonassignability.  Benefits under the Plan are  not
           ----------------
in  any  way subject to the debts or other obligations of  the

persons   entitled   thereto  and  may  not   voluntarily   or

involuntarily   be  sold,  transferred,  or   assigned.    Any

voluntary  attempt  to sell, anticipate, assign,  or  encumber

benefits  under this Plan shall operate to cancel the  benefit

or  the  balance of a Participant's account as of the date  of

such  attempt  and  to relieve the Employer  from  any  future

liability  to  pay or distribute any benefit with  respect  to

such canceled amount.



      7.2   Employment Rights.  The establishment of the  Plan
            -----------------
shall not be construed as conferring any legal rights upon any

Participant  or  any  other  person  for  a  continuation   of

employment,  nor  shall it interfere with the  rights  of  the

Employer  to discharge any person or treat him without  regard

to  the effect which such treatment might have upon him  under

this Plan.



      7.3   Illegality   of  Particular  Provision.   If   any
            --------------------------------------
particular provision of this Plan shall be found to be illegal

or  unenforceable, such provision shall not affect  any  other

provision, but the Plan shall be construed in all respects  as

if such invalid provision were omitted.



      7.4   Applicable Laws. The Plan shall be governed by and
            ---------------
construed according to the laws of the State of Illinois.






     7.5  Transfers Involving Occidental Petroleum Corporation
          ----------------------------------------------------
Supplemental  Retirement Plan.  In the case of  a  Participant
- -----------------------------
who  ceases  to be eligible to participate due to  his  having

transferred   to   the  employment  of  Occidental   Petroleum

Corporation or any other affiliate which is not an Employer, a

transfer  of  the Participant's account shall be made  to  the

Participant's account in the Occidental Petroleum  Corporation

Supplemental  Retirement  Plan (the "Occidental  SRP").   Such

transfer shall be effected on a date to be established by  the

Administrative Committee and the administrative  committee  of

the  Occidental SRP, which date shall be no later than the end

of  the  plan  year  following the plan  year  in  which  such

transfer  of  employment occurs.  The amount thus  transferred

will   be  credited  to  the  Participant's  account  in   the

Occidental SRP in accordance with such procedures  as  may  be

established   by   the  Administrative   Committee   and   the

administrative committee of the Occidental SRP, provided  that

the  Administrative Committee provides notice of such transfer

in  advance  to such Participant.  Notwithstanding  the  above

language, no such transfer shall be made in the event that the

affiliate to which the Participant transfers employment is not

a  participating employer in the Occidental  SRP,  or  in  the

event   the   Participant  fails  to  meet   the   eligibility

requirements for participation in the Occidental SRP.



           In the case of an employee who becomes eligible  to

participate hereunder due to his having transferred  from  the

employment  of Occidental Petroleum Corporation or  any  other

affiliate  which is not an Employer and who has a  balance  in

the   Occidental  SRP,  a  transfer  shall  be  made  to  such

employee's  account under this Plan.  Such transfer  shall  be

effected  on  a  date to be established by the  Administrative

Committee and the administrative






committee of the Occidental SRP, which date shall be no  later

than the end of the plan year following the plan year in which

such   transfer  of  employment  occurs.   The   amount   thus

transferred will be credited to the Participant's  account  in

accordance with such procedures as may be established  by  the

Administrative Committee and the administrative  committee  of

the Occidental SRP, provided that the Administrative Committee

provides   notice  of  such  transfer  in  advance   to   such

Participant.



            The  provisions  of  this  section  7.5  shall  be

inapplicable   in   the   event  that   Occidental   Petroleum

Corporation ceases to be an Affiliate.

                           -----------                              

          This amended and restated Plan shall be effective as

of January 1, 1997.





                                                   EXHIBIT 10.42
                                
                      EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
                      --------------------


          This Agreement is made as of the 3rd day of May, 1993
by and between Occidental Petroleum Corporation a Delaware
corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Employer") and Donald P.
de Brier (hereinafter referred to as "Employee").



                           WITNESSETH
                           ----------

          Employer hereby agrees to employ Employee, and Employee
agrees to perform services and to work for Employer, upon the
following terms and conditions:

          1.   Duties - Employee shall serve in the capacity of
Executive Vice President, Senior General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary or shall serve in such other capacity and with such
other duties for Employer or any of the subsidiaries of Employer
or any corporation affiliated with Employer (any such subsidiary
or affiliated corporation hereafter to be deemed Employer under
this Agreement).

          In performing his duties, Employee agrees to observe
and follow the reasonable policies and procedures established by
the Employer, which are subject to change by the Employer from
time to time.

          2.   Term of Employment - The term of employment shall
be for a period of five (5) years (unless terminated prior
thereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, or
unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties), commencing
on July 5, 1993, or such earlier date as Employee may specify.
In order to be valid, any such extension shall be in writing and
signed by the Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer on
behalf of Employer.

          3.   Compensation - In consideration for his services
to be performed under this Agreement, Employee shall receive, in
addition to all other benefits provided in this Agreement, an
aggregate salary of no less than four hundred thousand dollars
($400,000) per year payable by Employer in equal semimonthly
installments or on such basis as is generally established for
principal executives of Employer from time to time.

          4.   Participation in Benefit Programs - During the
term of this Agreement, Employee shall be entitled to participate
in all benefit programs generally applicable to salaried
employees of employer in force or adopted by Employer from time
to time.  Employee will be entitled to one country club
membership paid for by Employer provided that the Chairman,





President & Chief Executive Officer of Employer has prior
approval on the selection of the specific club.  Furthermore,
Employee will be required to participate in the tax preparation
program conducted by Arthur Andersen & Co.

          5.   Compensation Plans - Employee shall be:
(i) eligible to participate in Employer's Incentive Compensation
Plan according to its terms, and shall receive a bonus under such
Plan for the year 1993 of forty percent (40%) of his base salary
for 1993 or $160,000 (this bonus shall be payable in December
1993 or January 1994 in the discretion of the Company); (ii)
eligible to receive annual grants under Employer's 1987 Stock
Option Plan and shall receive an option grant of twenty thousand
(20,000) shares under such Plan after Employee's execution of
this Agreement and the commencement of services pursuant to this
Agreement, and (iii) a participant in Employer's 1977 Executive
Long-Term Incentive Stock Purchase Plan and shall receive a grant
of forty percent (40%) of Employee's base salary or $160,000 in
January, 1994 under such Plan.  Employee's participation in each
of the foregoing Plans shall be in accordance with and subject to
all of the terms and conditions of such Plans.

          6.   Additional Payments - In order to compensate
Employee for losses he will incur in leaving his current
employment, Employer shall pay to Employee an aggregate of
$100,000, payable after Employee's execution of this Agreement
and immediately prior to the commencement of his services
pursuant to this Agreement in Los Angeles, California.

          7.   Exclusivity of Services - Employee agrees to
devote his full-time, exclusive services to Employer hereunder,
except for such time as Employee may require in connection with
his personal investments, which shall be minimal.  However, it is
understood that Employee may provide occasional transitional
advice to British Petroleum with respect to matters in which he
was involved during his employment with British Petroleum.

          8.   Vacation - Employee shall be entitled to a total
of four (4) weeks vacation in each contract year.  Employee
agrees to follow Employer's relevant policies and procedures for
scheduling and taking such vacations.

          9.   Termination -

               a.   Cause - Notwithstanding the term of this
Agreement, Employer may discharge Employee and terminate this
Agreement for material cause, upon written notice, in the event
that Employee (i) shall willfully breach this agreement, or (ii)
shall refuse to carry out any lawful order of Employer or act in
a disloyal manner inimical to Employer.  In any such event,
Employer shall give Employee notice of such cause and Employee
shall have 30 days to cure such breach.




               b.   Incapacity - If, during the term of this
Agreement, Employee is materially incapacitated from fully
performing his duties pursuant to this Agreement by reason of
illness, disability or other incapacity (unless incurred as a
direct result of his assignments hereunder) or by reason of any
statute, law, ordinance, regulation, order, judgment or decree,
Employer may terminate this Agreement without liability by
written notice to Employee, but only in the event that such
conditions shall aggregate not less than one-hundred eighty (180)
days during any one contract year of the term of employment.

               c.   Without Cause - Either party may terminate
this Agreement without cause at any time, by giving the other
party not less than 24 months written notice of termination.
Employer may terminate the employment of Employee without cause
at any time (including a time during such notice period); and in
such event Employer shall compensate Employee (in lieu of said
notice and continued employment and, except for benefits
specified hereunder, in complete satisfaction of all of its
obligations under this Agreement) at his then current rate and in
the manner provided in Paragraph 3 above for a period after
termination equivalent to the shortest of:  (i) twenty-four
months; (ii) the remainder of the 24 months notice period (in the
event of termination during said notice period); or (iii) until
the expiration of the term of this Agreement.  In any event,
Employer's maximum liability for any breach of this Agreement,
including but not limited to, termination without cause and/or
notice shall be no more than twenty-four (24) months compensation
plus the benefits specified hereunder (or a lesser amount as
determined in accordance with subsection (ii) or (iii) of this
paragraph) at the rate set forth above.

               During this period of compensation, Employee shall
continue to be eligible to (i) participate in all employee
benefit plans of Employer (except the short and long-term
disability plans unless Employee has already become eligible
under such plans), in which he is participating at the time of
the notice, and (ii) exercise all stock options previously
granted to Employee under Employer's 1987 Stock Option Plan,
which options are or become exercisable under the provisions of
such Plan as though he were still a full time employee.  During
the period, any award(s) to Employee pursuant to Employer's
Executive Long-Term Incentive Stock Purchase Plan shall continue
to vest in the same manner and in the same amounts as such
award(s) would have vested if Employee had continued as a full
time employee.  However, this employee benefits participation and
stock plan vesting will cease if Employee accepts a full time
position with another employer.

               In the event Employer compensates Employee (in
lieu of said notice and continued employment) under the first
paragraph of 9(c) above for a period exceeding twelve months,
then in such event, all remuneration or wages earned during the
second twelve months of such period by Employee, either as




employee, independent contractor or consultant to any person,
firm or corporation other than employer, shall be a set-off to
Employer's duty of compensation to Employee.

          10.  Initial Relocation - Employee's relocation from
London, United Kingdom to Los Angeles, California (including the
sale of Employee's existing residence in Shaker Heights, Ohio),
shall be covered by and subject to Employer's existing written
relocation policy.  This will include the movement of household
goods both from England and Ohio, plus any additional relocation
benefits as approved by the Executive Vice President of Human
Resources.  In order to assist Employee in obtaining a new
domicile in Los Angeles essentially equivalent to his current
domicile in Shaker Heights, Employer will reimburse Employee (on
or before June 30th and December 31st of each contract year) for
the difference between (x) his current housing costs in Shaker
Heights for mortgage payments, real estate taxes and home
insurance and (y) the amounts that Employee paid for those
housing costs in Los Angeles, subject to the following
limitations:  no more than $35,000 for the first and second year
of Employee's Los Angeles home ownership, $26,250 for the third
such year, $17,500 for the fourth such year, $8,750 for the fifth
such year and nothing thereafter.

          11.  Confidential Information - Employee agrees that he
will not divulge to any person, nor use to the detriment of
Employer or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, nor use in any
business competitive with or similar to any business of Employer
or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries, at any time during
employment by Employer or thereafter, any trade secrets or
confidential information obtained during the course of his
employment with Employer, without first obtaining the written
permission of Employer.

          Employee agrees that, at the time of leaving the employ
of Employer, he will deliver to Employer and not keep or deliver
to anyone else any and all notes, notebooks, memoranda, documents
and, in general, any and all material relating to Employer's
business.

          12.  Entire Agreement; Modification - This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement of the parties relating to the
subject matter hereof, and supercedes all previous agreements,
arrangements, and understandings, whether express or implied,
relating to the subject matter hereof.  No other agreements,
oral, implied or otherwise, regarding the subject matter of this
Agreement shall be deemed to exist or bind either of the parties
hereto.  This Agreement cannot be modified except by a writing
signed by both parties.

          13.  Severability - If any provision of this Agreement
is illegal and unenforceable in whole or in part, the remainder
of this Agreement shall remain enforceable to the extent
permitted by law.




          14.  Governing Law - This Agreement shall be construed
and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of
California.

          15.  Assignment - This Agreement shall be binding upon
Employee, his heirs, executors and assigns and upon Employer, its
successors and assigns.

          16.  Sole Contract - Employee represents and warrants
to Employer that he is not barred by or subject to any
contractual or other obligation that would be violated by the
execution or performance of this Agreement.

          17.  No Waiver - The failure of a party to insist upon
strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion
shall not be considered a waiver nor deprive that party of the
right to insist upon adherence to that term or any other term of
this Agreement.  Any waiver or amendment to this Agreement must
be in writing.

          18.  Withholdings - All compensation provided by
Employer under this Agreement is subject to any and all
withholding by Employer as required by applicable law.

          19.  Arbitration - Both parties agree that any and all
disputes that relate to the termination of this Agreement and/or
Employee's employment (including whether Employer had sufficient
cause for termination or the manner in which the termination is
effected) shall be submitted to binding arbitration and judgment
under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association.  Should the arbitrator rule in
Employee's favor on any dispute, the maximum exclusive remedy
shall be that as set forth in Paragraph 9(c) above.  The judgment
on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction.
The parties to any arbitration under this paragraph shall bear
the cost of the arbitration and the fee of the neutral arbitrator
in such manner as determined by the arbitrator.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed
this Agreement the day and year first above written.


                              OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION



                              By: R. R. IRANI
                                  ----------------------------


                              By: DONALD P. DE BRIER
                                  ----------------------------
                                  Donald P. de Brier






