
10-K405
HUNTINTON BANCSHARES INC.       FORM 10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

         (Mark One)
             [X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
                 Exchange Act of 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       or
             [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
                 Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file Number 0-2525

                       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                       ----------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Maryland                                       31-0724920
        --------------------                      ----------------
        (State or other jurisdiction of           (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)            Identification No.)

    Huntington Center, 41 S. High Street, Columbus, OH               43287
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    (Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (614) 480-8300
                                                           --------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                        Common Stock - Without Par Value
                        --------------------------------
                                (Title of class)

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. [X] Yes [ ] No

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

    The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of December 31, 1998, was $5,598,777,206. As of January 31, 1999,
210,481,413 shares of common stock without par value were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated By Reference
- -----------------------------------

    Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information
from the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual
Shareholders' Meeting.


                       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                       ----------------------------------

                                     Part I
                                     ------

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

         Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington), incorporated in
Maryland in 1966, is a multi-state bank holding company headquartered in
Columbus, Ohio. Its subsidiaries conduct a full-service commercial and consumer
banking business, engage in mortgage banking, lease financing, trust services,
discount brokerage services, underwriting credit life and disability insurance,
selling other insurance products, and issuing commercial paper guaranteed by
Huntington, and provide other financial products and services. At December 31,
1998, Huntington's subsidiaries had 187 banking offices in Ohio, 135 banking
offices in Michigan, 126 banking offices in Florida, 44 banking offices in West
Virginia, 24 banking offices in Indiana, 13 banking offices in Kentucky, and one
foreign office in the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong, respectively. The Huntington
Mortgage Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary) has loan origination offices
throughout the Midwest and East Coast. Foreign banking activities, in total or
with any individual country, are not significant to the operations of
Huntington. At December 31, 1998, Huntington and its subsidiaries had 10,159
full-time equivalent employees.

         Competition in the form of price and service from other banks and
financial companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies,
and brokerage firms is intense in most of the markets served by Huntington and
its subsidiaries. Mergers between and the expansion of financial institutions
both within and outside Ohio have provided significant competitive pressure in
major markets. Since 1995, when federal interstate banking legislation became
effective that made it permissible for bank holding companies in any state to
acquire banks in any other state, actual or potential competition in each of
Huntington's markets has been intensified. The same federal legislation permits
further competition through interstate branching, subject to certain limitations
by individual states.

         On June 26, 1998, Huntington completed the acquisition of sixty former
Barnett Banks banking offices in Florida from NationsBank Corporation (the
Branch Purchase). The transaction was accounted for as a purchase; accordingly,
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair
value. The Branch Purchase added approximately $1.3 billion in loans and $2.3
billion in deposits. Intangible assets arising from the transaction totaled
approximately $460 million. The acquired branches' results of operations have
been included in Huntington's consolidated totals from the date of the
acquisition only.

         On October 31, 1997, Huntington acquired The Bank of Winter Park
(Winter Park), a $90 million bank headquartered in Winter Park, Florida, for
approximately 364,000 shares of Huntington common stock. On February 28, 1997,
Huntington acquired Citi-Bancshares, Inc. (Citi-Bancshares), a $548 million
one-bank holding company headquartered in Leesburg, Florida, for $47.7 million
in cash and 2.9 million shares of Huntington common stock. These transactions
were accounted for as purchases; accordingly, the results of Citi-Bancshares and
Winter Park have been included in the consolidated financial statements from the
date of acquisition.

         On September 30, 1997, Huntington completed its acquisition of First
Michigan Bank Corporation (First Michigan), a $3.6 billion bank holding company
headquartered in Holland, 



Michigan, in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. Huntington
issued approximately 32.2 million shares of common stock to the shareholders of
First Michigan. All financial information reported by Huntington, except
dividends per share, was restated for the First Michigan acquisition.

         In December 1998, Huntington applied for regulatory approval for the
merger of The Huntington State Bank, its state bank subsidiary in Ohio, into The
Huntington National Bank, an interstate national bank. The merger was
consummated in January 1999. As a result, The Huntington National Bank is
Huntington's sole bank subsidiary.

REGULATORY MATTERS

GENERAL

         As a registered bank holding company, Huntington is subject to the
supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board"). Huntington is required to file with the Federal
Reserve Board reports and other information regarding its business operations
and the business operations of its subsidiaries. It is also subject to
examination by the Federal Reserve Board and is required to obtain Federal
Reserve Board approval prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or
control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, it would own
or control more than 5% of the voting stock of such bank. In addition, pursuant
to federal law and regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board,
Huntington may only engage in, or own or control companies that engage in,
activities deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to
banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Under legislation effective in 1996,
Huntington may, in most cases, commence permissible new nonbanking business
activities de novo with only subsequent notice to the Federal Reserve Board and
may acquire smaller companies that engage in permissible nonbanking activities
under an expedited procedure requiring only 12 business days notice to the
Federal Reserve Board.

         Huntington's national bank subsidiary has deposits insured by the Bank
Insurance Fund ("BIF") of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). It
is subject to supervision, examination, and regulation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). Certain deposits of Huntington's national
bank subsidiary were acquired from savings associations and are insured by the
Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF") of the FDIC. Huntington's nonbank
subsidiaries are also subject to supervision, examination, and regulation by the
Federal Reserve Board and examination by applicable federal and state banking
agencies. In addition to the impact of federal and state supervision and
regulation, the bank and nonbank subsidiaries of Huntington are affected
significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve Board as it attempts to
control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the
economy.

         To the extent that the following information describes statutory or
regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to such
statutory or regulatory provisions.

HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE

         Huntington's depository institution subsidiary is subject to affiliate
transaction restrictions under federal law which limit the transfer of funds by
the subsidiary bank to the parent and any nonbank subsidiaries of the parent,
whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset
purchases. Such transfers by a subsidiary bank to its parent corporation or to
any individual nonbank subsidiary of the parent are limited in amount to 10% of
the subsidiary 


bank's capital and surplus and, with respect to such parent together with all
such nonbank subsidiaries of the parent, to an aggregate of 20% of the
subsidiary bank's capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and extensions of
credit are required to be secured in specified amounts. In addition, all
affiliate transactions must be conducted on terms and under circumstances that
are substantially the same as such transactions with unaffiliated entities.
Under applicable regulations, at December 31, 1998, approximately $222.7 million
was available for loans to Huntington from its subsidiary bank.

         The Federal Reserve Board has a policy to the effect that a bank
holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial
strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support each
such subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve
Board may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a
troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging
in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a
subsidiary bank. This capital injection may be required at times when Huntington
may not have the resources to provide it. Any loans by a holding company to its
subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain
other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. Moreover, in the event of a bank
holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by such holding company to a
federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will
be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

         Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro rata assessment of
shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by
losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank's capital
stock. This statute also provides for the enforcement of any such pro rata
assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of
capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock of any
assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment. Huntington, as the sole
shareholder of its subsidiary bank, is subject to such provisions. Moreover, the
claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative
expenses and the claims of holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution
are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an
institution, including the holders of the institution's note obligations, in the
event of a liquidation or other resolution of such institution. As a result of
such legislation, claims of a receiver for administrative expenses and claims of
holders of deposit liabilities of Huntington's depository subsidiary (including
the FDIC, as the subrogee of such holders) would receive priority over the
holders of notes and other senior debt of such subsidiary in the event of a
liquidation or other resolution and over the interests of Huntington as sole
shareholder of its subsidiary.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

         Dividends from its subsidiary bank are a significant source of funds
for payment of dividends to Huntington's shareholders. In the year ended
December 31, 1998, Huntington declared cash dividends to its shareholders of
approximately $161.4 million. There are, however, statutory limits on the amount
of dividends that Huntington's depository institution subsidiary can pay to
Huntington without regulatory approval.

         Huntington's subsidiary bank may not, without prior regulatory
approval, pay a dividend in an amount greater than such bank's undivided
profits. In addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment
of a dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the
bank in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year
combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. Under these
provisions and in accordance with the above-described formula, Huntington's
subsidiary bank could, without regulatory approval, declare dividends to
Huntington in 1999 of approximately $153.0 million plus an additional amount
equal to its net profits during 1999.



         If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under
its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound
practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include
the payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and hearing,
that such bank cease and desist from such practice. The Federal Reserve Board
and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and
bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current
operating earnings.

FDIC INSURANCE

         Under current FDIC practices, Huntington's bank subsidiary will not be
required to pay deposit insurance premiums during 1999. However, the bank
subsidiary will be required to make payments for the servicing of obligations of
the Financing Corporation ("FICO") issued in connection with the resolution of
savings and loan associations, so long as such obligations remain outstanding.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

         The Federal Reserve Board has issued risk-based capital ratio and
leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies such as Huntington. The
risk-based capital ratio guidelines establish a systematic analytical framework
that makes regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk
profiles among banking organizations, takes off-balance sheet exposures into
explicit account in assessing capital adequacy, and minimizes disincentives to
holding liquid, low-risk assets. Under the guidelines and related policies, bank
holding companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based
asset ratio test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis. The
risk-based ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance
sheet commitments into four weighted categories, with higher weighting being
assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk. A bank holding
company's capital (as described below) is then divided by total risk weighted
assets to yield the risk-based ratio. The leverage ratio is determined by
relating core capital (as described below) to total assets adjusted as specified
in the guidelines. Huntington's subsidiary bank is subject to substantially
similar capital requirements.

         Generally, under the applicable guidelines, a financial institution's
capital is divided into two tiers. Institutions that must incorporate market
risk exposure into their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third
tier of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated debt. "Tier
1", or core capital, includes common equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock (excluding auction rate issues), and minority interests in equity accounts
of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and, with certain limited
exceptions, all other intangible assets. Bank holding companies, however, may
include cumulative preferred stock in their Tier 1 capital, up to a limit of 25%
of such Tier 1 capital. "Tier 2", or supplementary capital, includes, among
other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock, hybrid capital
instruments, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and
the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations. "Total
capital" is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.

         The Federal Reserve Board and the other federal banking regulators
require that all intangible assets, with certain limited exceptions, be deducted
from Tier 1 capital. Under the Federal Reserve Board's rules, as amended on
August 10, 1998, the only types of intangible assets that may be included in
(i.e., not deducted from) a bank holding company's capital are originated or
purchased mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs"), nonmortgage servicing assets
("NMSAs"), and purchased credit card relationships ("PCCRs"), provided that, in
the aggregate, the total amount of MSRs, NMSAs, and PCCRs included in capital
does not exceed 100% of


Tier 1 capital. NMSAs and PCCRs are subject to a separate aggregate sublimit of
25% of Tier 1 capital. The amount of MSRs, NMSAs, and PCCRs that a bank holding
company may include in its capital is limited to the lesser of (i) 90% of such
assets' fair market value (as determined under the guidelines), or (ii) 100% of
such assets' book value, each determined quarterly. Identifiable intangible
assets (i.e., intangible assets other than goodwill) other than MSRs, NMSAs, and
PCCRs, including core deposit intangibles, acquired on or before February 19,
1992 (the date the Federal Reserve Board issued its original proposal for public
comment), generally will not be deducted from capital for supervisory purposes,
although they will continue to be deducted for purposes of evaluating
applications filed by bank holding companies.

         Under the risk-based guidelines, financial institutions are required to
maintain a risk-based ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of 8%, of
which 4% must be Tier 1 capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may set
higher capital requirements when an institution's circumstances warrant.

         Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are required to
maintain a leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, as specified
in the guidelines) of at least 3%. The 3% minimum ratio is applicable only to
financial institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent
asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure, and the highest
regulatory rating. Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are
required to maintain a leverage ratio that exceeds 3% by a cushion of at least
100 to 200 basis points.

         The guidelines also provide that financial institutions experiencing
internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong
capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory level.
Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board's guidelines indicate that the Federal
Reserve Board will continue to consider a "tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio" in
evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1
leverage ratio is the ratio of an institution's Tier 1 capital, less all
intangibles, to total assets, less all intangibles.

         Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the
financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the
federal regulatory authorities, including limitations on the ability to pay
dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to
increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, as well
as to the measures described below under "Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991" as applicable to undercapitalized institutions.

         As of December 31, 1998, the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, total
risk-based capital ratio, and Tier I leverage ratio for Huntington were as
follows:
                                  
          
As of December 31, 1998, Huntington's bank subsidiary also had capital in 
excess of the minimum requirements.   
                                                 
         The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC,
and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking agencies of a bank's
capital adequacy will include an assessment of the exposure to declines in the
economic value of the bank's capital due to changes in interest rates. These
banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest rate risk
describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk that rely principally on
internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk management activities
by senior management.



FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1991

         The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA") substantially revised the bank regulatory and funding provisions of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and made revisions to several other federal
banking statutes. Among other things, FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory
authorities to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes,
FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized,
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically
undercapitalized.

         The federal banking regulatory agencies have adopted regulations to
implement the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. Among other things,
the regulations define the relevant capital measures for the five capital
categories. An institution is deemed to be "well capitalized" if it has a total
risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of
6% or greater, and a Tier I leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject
to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific
capital level for any capital measure. An institution is deemed to be
"adequately capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or
greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater, and, generally, a
Tier I leverage ratio of 4% or greater and the institution does not meet the
definition of a "well capitalized" institution. An institution that does not
meet one or more of the "adequately capitalized" tests is deemed to be
"undercapitalized". If the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that
is less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3%, or a
Tier I leverage ratio that is less than 3%, it is deemed to be "significantly
undercapitalized". Finally, an institution is deemed to be "critically
undercapitalized" if it has a ratio of tangible equity (as defined in the
regulations) to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%.

         FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any
capital distribution (including payment of a cash dividend) or paying any
management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would
thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized institutions are subject to
growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. If any
depository institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a
capital restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a
limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval
of such plan by the appropriate federal banking agency. If an undercapitalized
institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
significantly undercapitalized. Significantly undercapitalized institutions may
be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to
sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to
reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent
banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions may not, beginning 60 days after
becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest
on their subordinated debt. In addition, critically undercapitalized
institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90
days of becoming critically undercapitalized.

         Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well capitalized is
generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest
rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Huntington
expects that the FDIC's brokered deposit rule will not adversely affect the
ability of its depository institution subsidiaries to accept brokered deposits.
Under the regulatory definition of brokered deposits, Huntington's depository
subsidiary had $4.3 million of brokered deposits at December 31, 1998.

         FDICIA, as amended, directs that each federal banking regulatory agency
prescribe standards, by regulation or guideline, for depository institutions
relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan
documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth,
compensation, asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation. The 



Federal Reserve Board and other federal banking agencies have adopted a
regulation in the form of guidelines covering most of these items. Huntington
believes that the regulation and guidelines will not have a material effect on
the operations of its depository institution subsidiaries.

INTERSTATE BRANCHING AND CONSOLIDATIONS

         The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
("Riegle-Neal") provides for nationwide interstate banking and branching. Under
the law, interstate acquisitions of banks or bank holding companies in any state
by bank holding companies in any other state became permissible as of September
29, 1995, and interstate branching and consolidations of existing bank
subsidiaries in different states became permissible as of June 1, 1997. On June
30, 1997, Huntington availed itself of the interstate branching and
consolidation authority by merging into its lead national bank subsidiary all of
its other bank subsidiaries, except The Huntington State Bank, which was
subsequently merged into Huntington's lead national bank subsidiary on January
29, 1999. As of that date, The Huntington National Bank was Huntington's sole
bank subsidiary. Future bank acquisitions, if any, in states where Huntington
formerly had a separate bank subsidiary, will not require compliance with
Riegle-Neal entry provisions.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS

         The United States Congress considered but did not adopt comprehensive
financial sector reform legislation during 1998. Such legislation, if adopted,
would have allowed, inter alia, affiliations between banking organizations and
insurance companies, and permitted activities currently prohibited by the
Glass-Steagall Act. Similar legislation is expected to be considered by the
United States Congress during 1999.

GUIDE 3 INFORMATION

         Information required by Industry Guide 3 relating to statistical
disclosure by bank holding companies is set forth in Items 7 and 8.

ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES


         The headquarters of Huntington and its lead subsidiary, The Huntington
National Bank, are located in the Huntington Center, a thirty-seven story office
building located in Columbus, Ohio. Of the building's total office space
available, Huntington occupies approximately 39 percent. The lease term expires
in 2009, with renewal options for up to 50 years but with no purchase option.
The Huntington National Bank has an equity interest in the entity that owns the
building. Huntington's other major properties consist of a thirteen-story and a
twelve-story office building, both of which are located adjacent to the
Huntington Center; a twenty-one story office building, known as the Huntington
Building, located in Cleveland, Ohio; an eighteen-story office building in
Charleston, West Virginia; a three-story office building located in Holland,
Michigan; an office building in Lakeland, Florida; an eleven-story office
building in Sarasota, Florida; The Huntington Mortgage Company's building,
located in the greater Columbus area; an office complex located in Troy,
Michigan; and two data processing and operations centers located in Ohio. Of
these properties, Huntington owns the thirteen-story and twelve-story office
buildings. All of the other major properties are held under long-term leases.



         In 1998, Huntington entered into a sale/leaseback agreement that
included the sale of 59 properties. The transaction included a mix of branch
banking offices, regional offices, and operational facilities, including certain
properties described above, which Huntington will continue to operate under
long-term leases with terms expiring through the year 2020.

         During the first half of 1999, Huntington expects to occupy its newly
constructed Business Service Center. This 460,000 square foot facility will
serve as Huntington's primary Operations and Data Center and will house
approximately 1,800 employees.

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Information required by this item is set forth in Item 8 in Note 16 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 45.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         Not Applicable.

                                     Part II
                                     -------

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

         The common stock of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is traded on the
NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol "HBAN". The stock is listed as "HuntgBcshr"
or "HuntBanc" in most newspapers. As of January 31, 1999, Huntington had 35,182
shareholders of record.

         Information regarding the high and low sale prices of Huntington Common
Stock and cash dividends declared on such shares, as required by this item, is
set forth in a table entitled "Market Prices, Key Ratios and Statistics
(Quarterly Data)" on page 27 in Item 7. Information regarding restrictions on
dividends, as required by this item, is set forth in Item 1 under the caption
"Business-Regulatory Matters-Dividend Restrictions" on pages 4 and 5 above and
in Item 8 in Notes 11 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages 41 and 44, respectively.

On January 6, 1998, Huntington acquired Pollock and Pollock, an insurance agency
headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio ("Pollock"). In connection with this
acquisition, Huntington issued 159,730 unregistered shares of Huntington common
stock, without par value, to five shareholders of Pollock in exchange for all of
the issued and outstanding Pollock capital stock. The issuance of shares in this
transaction was deemed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, in reliance on Section 4(2) since this was a transaction by
an issuer not involving a public offering.

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         Information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 in Table 1 on
page 10.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS





(1) Reported net income, adjusted to exclude special charges and related taxes.

(2) Adjusted for stock splits and stock dividends, as applicable.

(3) Presented on a fully tax equivalent basis assuming a 35% tax rate.





INTRODUCTION

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------

      Congress passed the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 to
encourage corporations to provide investors with information about the company's
anticipated future financial performance, goals, and strategies. The act
provides a safe harbor for such disclosure, or in other words, protection from
unwarranted litigation if actual results are not the same as management's
expectations.

      Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) desires to provide its
shareholders with sound information about past performance and future trends.
Consequently, this Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking
statements including certain plans, expectations, goals, and
projections--including without limitation those relating to Huntington's Year
2000 readiness--that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in or
implied by Huntington's statements due to a variety of factors including:
changes in economic conditions; movements in interest rates; competitive
pressures on product pricing and services; success and timing of business
strategies; the successful integration of acquired businesses; the nature,
extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms; the risks of Year 2000
disruption; and extended disruption of vital infrastructure. The management of
Huntington encourages readers of this Form 10-K to understand forward-looking
statements to be strategic objectives rather than absolute targets of future
performance.

ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
- --------------------------------------------

      In June 1998, Huntington completed the acquisition of sixty former Barnett
Banks banking offices in Florida from NationsBank Corporation (the Branch
Purchase). The transaction was accounted for as a purchase; accordingly, the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair 



(1)  The change in interest rates due to both rate and volume has been allocated
     between the factors in proportion to the relationship of the absolute
     dollar amounts of the change in each.

(2)  Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.



value. The Branch Purchase added approximately $1.3 billion in loans and $2.3
billion in deposits. Intangible assets arising from the transaction totaled
approximately $460 million. The acquired branches' results of operations have
been included in Huntington's consolidated totals from the date of the
acquisition only.

     In October 1998, Huntington announced several initiatives to strengthen the
company's financial performance. These included the realignment of the banking
network; the exit of under-performing product lines and delivery channels;
implementation of numerous cost savings measures, including the reduction of
approximately 10% of workforce positions; and a repositioning of the balance
sheet to maximize returns on equity. When fully implemented, management
anticipates that these actions will result in an estimated $125 million in
sustainable pretax annual profit improvements. In connection with these
initiatives, Huntington incurred one-time, pre-tax expenses of $90 million in
the fourth quarter of 1998. This special charge included $32 million related to
exit activities, $26 million for severance and other personnel-related items,
$20 million from the closure of banking offices, and $12 million of fixed asset
write-offs.

     "Operating" results, as used below, refers to Huntington's financial
performance before the impact of the fourth quarter 1998 special charges and the
merger-related expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition in 1997 of
First Michigan Bank Corporation, a $3.6 billion bank holding company
headquartered in Holland, Michigan (First Michigan).

OVERVIEW

     Huntington's operating earnings totaled $362.1 million in 1998, up from
$338.9 million in the preceding year, and $304.3 million in 1996. On a diluted
per share basis, operating earnings were $1.70 in the recent year, versus $1.60
and $1.42, respectively, in 1997 and 1996. Reported net income for 1998,
including special charges, was $301.8 million, or $1.41 per share. Per share
amounts for all prior periods have been restated to reflect the ten percent
stock dividend distributed to shareholders in July 1998.


Note: There are no loans outstanding which would be considered a concentration
      of lending in any particular industry or group of industries.






      On an operating basis, return on average equity (ROE) was 17.54% in 1998
and return on average assets (ROA) was 1.35%. In the two preceding years, ROE
was 17.88% and 17.13%, respectively, and ROA was 1.35% and 1.30%. Adjusted for
the impact of intangible assets and related amortization expense, "cash" basis
ROE improved to 24.35% for 1998, compared with 21.36% for 1997 and 19.88% in
1996. Cash basis ROA was 1.45% in the recent twelve months versus 1.41% and
1.36% in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

      Total assets were $28.3 billion at December 31, 1998, up nearly 6% from
year-end 1997. The Branch Purchase drove much of the asset growth, complemented
by new loan production, including a significant increase in mortgages held for
sale. A strategic repositioning of the balance sheet, designed to improve equity
returns, resulted in other portions of the balance sheet showing reductions from
1997. These initiatives included the sale of $3.4 billion of securities
available for sale, the exit of out-of-market credit card operations through the
sale of approximately $90 million of loans outstanding, and the closure of the
Pittsburgh indirect loan production office. Huntington also sold 59 properties
with a book value approximating $110 million, that included a mix of branch
banking offices, regional offices, and operations facilities, which the company
will continue to operate under long-term leases.

      Adjusted for the impact of the Branch Purchase and loan
sales/securitizations, average total loans outstanding were up 4.2% from 1997.
Both commercial and consumer loans grew more than 5%. Residential mortgage
refinancing activity, coupled with the impact of the General Motors strike on
automobile dealer floor plan lending, softened overall loan growth.

      Core deposits, adjusted for the Branch Purchase, increased 3.1% with
particular strength in transaction accounts and savings products--up 5.5% and
3.2%, respectively. Core deposits represent Huntington's most significant source
of funding; when combined with other core funding sources, they provide
approximately 76% of Huntington's funding needs.

      In terms of wholesale liabilities, Huntington issued $300 million of
subordinated notes in 1998 as well as an additional $100 million of capital
securities through Huntington Capital II, a special-purpose subsidiary.

LINES OF BUSINESS

      For internal reporting and planning purposes, Huntington segments its
operations into five distinct lines of business: retail banking, corporate
banking, dealer sales, private financial group, and treasury/other. Line of
business results are determined based upon Huntington's business profitability
reporting system which assigns balance sheet and income statement items to each
of the business segments identified above. This is a dynamic process that
mirrors Huntington's organizational and management structure. Accordingly, the
results are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by
other financial institutions that may define business segments differently. In
addition, methodologies used to assign certain balance sheet, income statement,
and overhead items may change as Huntington continues to refine the data and its
allocation assumptions used to present segment information.

      A description of each line of business and its operating earnings
contribution is discussed below:

RETAIL BANKING

      Retail Banking provides products and services to retail and small
community banking business customers. This business unit's products include home
equity loans, first mortgage loans, installment loans, credit cards, deposit
products, as well as investment and insurance services. These products and
services are offered through Huntington's traditional banking network, in-store
branches, Direct Bank, and Web Bank.

CORPORATE BANKING

      Customers in this segment represent the small, middle-market, and large
corporate banking relationships which use a variety of banking products and
services including, but not limited to, commercial loans, asset based financing,
international trade, and cash management. Huntington's capital markets division
also provides alternative financing solutions for larger business clients,
including privately placed debt and syndicated commercial lending.

DEALER SALES

      Dealer Sales product offerings pertain to the automobile lending sector
and include floor plan financing, as well as indirect consumer loans and leases.
Indirect consumer lending comprises the vast majority of the business and
involves dealerships selling Huntington's products to individuals purchasing or
leasing vehicles.




PRIVATE FINANCIAL GROUP

      Huntington's Private Financial Group (PFG) provides an array of products
and services designed to meet the needs of Huntington's higher wealth banking
customers. Revenue is derived through personal trust, asset management,
investment advisory, and other wealth management services. Huntington's Private
Financial Group provides customers with "one-stop shopping" for all their
financial needs.

TREASURY/OTHER

      Huntington uses a match-funded transfer pricing system to allocate
interest income and interest expense to its business segments. This approach
consolidates the interest rate risk management of the company into its Treasury
Group. As part of its overall interest rate risk and liquidity management
strategy, Treasury administers an investment portfolio of approximately $5
billion. Revenue and expense associated with these activities remain within
Treasury. Additionally, the Treasury/Other group absorbs unassigned equity that
may be used to fund acquisitions or other internal growth initiatives. Costs
associated with intangibles that have not been allocated to the major business
lines are also included in the Other category.

EARNINGS CONTRIBUTION BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
- -----------------------------------------

      Retail banking provided 43% of Huntington's operating earnings for 1998.
This segment represents 36% of Huntington's outstanding loan portfolio, and
generates retail deposits, the key source of funding for Huntington. Retail
Banking is allocated from Treasury a "deposit credit" based on the cost of
deposits gathered versus rates available on wholesale funds of similar duration.
The Corporate Banking lending portfolio represents approximately 31% of
Huntington's total loan book and was responsible for 29% of 1998 operating
earnings. Dealer Sales represented 29% of the loans outstanding and provided a
14% earnings contribution in the recent year. Private Financial Group, a very
profitable and growing business segment, generated 6% of the annual operating
earnings, mostly driven by its fee-based services. Treasury/Other includes
approximately $30 million of securities gains in 1998.

                                  [PIE GRAPH]





RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

NET INTEREST INCOME
- -------------------

      Huntington's net interest income was $1,021.1 million in 1998, compared
with $1,027.2 million and $895.1 million, respectively, in 1997 and 1996. The
net interest margin, on a fully tax equivalent basis, was 4.28% during the
recent twelve months, versus 4.44% and 4.19% in the two preceding years. The
margin decline is primarily due to the drop in earning asset yields, as the
highly competitive marketplace continues to erode loan spreads across much of
the banking industry. Interest rate swaps and other off-balance sheet financial
instruments used for asset/liability management purposes provided benefits of
$27.3 million and $6.0 million in the recent two years versus a reduction of
$52.1 million in 1996.

PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
- ---------------------------------------

      The provision for loan losses was $105.2 million in 1998, down slightly
from $107.8 million one year ago. In 1996, the provision totaled $76.4 million.
Net charge-offs as a percent of average total loans were .51% in the year just
ended versus .50% in 1997 and .44% in 1996. Consumer losses were up 10.1% from
1997, while commercial charge-offs increased 5.6%.

      The allowance for loan losses (ALL) is maintained at a level considered
appropriate by management, based on its estimate of probable losses in the loan
portfolio. The procedures employed by Huntington in evaluating the adequacy of
the ALL include an analysis of specific credits that are generally selected for
review on the basis of size and relative risk, portfolio trends, recent loss
experience, prevailing economic conditions, and other relevant factors. For
analytical purposes, the ALL has been allocated to various portfolio segments.
However, the total ALL is available to absorb losses from any segment of the
portfolio.

      At December 31, 1998, the ALL was $290.9 million and represented 1.50% of
total loans, up modestly from 1.46% a year ago. The ALL covered non-performing
loans more than three times, consistent with the prior year's level. Additional
information regarding the ALL and asset quality appears in the section "Credit
Risk".

NON-INTEREST INCOME
- -------------------

      Non-interest income totaled $438.2 million in 1998, versus $342.8 million
and $314.1 million, respectively, in 1997 and 1996. Excluding securities gains,
non-interest income increased 22% over last year. Fee income continues to be a
growing source of revenue for Huntington, as it represented 28.6% of total
revenues in the recent year, versus 24.6% in 1997. Improvements were evident in
all non-interest income categories, led by brokerage and insurance services,
electronic banking, and mortgage banking. Huntington also generated $28.7
million of income from Bank Owned Life Insurance policies in 1998. Included in
"Other" non-interest income is a gain of $9.5 million from the sale of
Huntington's out-of-market credit card portfolio.

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE
- --------------------

      On an operating basis, non-interest expense was $823.9 million, compared
with $751.9 million and $675.5 million in the two preceding years. Fueling the
expenses were higher sales commissions related to growth in fee-based
businesses; additional telecommunication costs resulting from continued
expansion of Huntington's ATM network; contract programming for Year 2000
remediation; systems conversions and other costs of consolidating operations;
and intangible asset amortization attributable to the Branch Purchase.

      Huntington believes it is well positioned to achieve significant
efficiencies in the future. The movement to a common operating platform is
substantially completed, banking activities are provided under a single
interstate charter, and the number of operations and processing centers has been
significantly reduced. Moreover, the company recently announced several
additional strategic actions that are expected to enhance profitability,
including its plans to close approximately 39 underperforming banking offices
and terminate certain business activities including employee benefit plan
administrative services. In connection with the initiatives, Huntington expects
to eliminate approximately 1,000 positions, or roughly 10% of its work force.

      During the fourth quarter of 1998, Huntington recorded a $90 million
(approximately $60 million net of taxes, or $.28 per share) special charge as a
result of the above-mentioned strategic actions. It is anticipated that the exit
activities and the closure of banking offices will be completed by the end of
1999. At the recent year end, approximately $54 million of the reserves remained
from the special charge. See note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the 1998 Special Charge.





(1) Income before income taxes (excluding special charges) and the provision for
loan losses to net loan losses. 





      In connection with the acquisition of First Michigan in 1997, 
Huntington incurred a merger-related charge of $51 million consisting 
primarily of personnel, facilities, and systems costs, as well as $12 million of
professional fees and other costs to effect the business combination. At
December 31, 1998, the merger-related reserve had been fully used.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
- --------------------------

      The provision for income taxes was $138.4 million in 1998, down from
$166.5 million in 1997, and $153.0 million in 1996. Huntington's effective tax
rate decreased to 31.4% in the recent year versus 36.3% in 1997. The lower rate
is due primarily to a higher mix of tax-exempt income. In addition, the 1997
rate was higher than normal as a result of significant nondeductible expenses
incurred in connection with the First Michigan and other bank acquisitions.

YEAR 2000

      The Year 2000 problem is the result of many existing computer programs
using only the last two-digits, as opposed to four digits, to indicate the year.
Such computer systems may be unable to recognize a year that begins with "20"
instead of "19". If not corrected, many computer programs could cause systems to
fail or other computer errors, leading to possible disruptions in operations or
creation of erroneous results.

      Huntington, in an enterprise-wide effort, is taking steps to ensure that
its internal systems are secure from such failure and that its current products
will perform. The company's Year 2000 Plan (the Plan) addresses all systems,
software, hardware, and infrastructure components. In addition, business
processes are being assessed and validated throughout the organization.

      The Plan identifies and addresses "Mission Critical" and "Non-mission
Critical" components for Information Technology (IT) systems, Non-information
Technology (Non-IT) systems, and business processes. IT includes, for example,
systems that service loan and deposit customers. Non-IT systems include, among
other things, security systems, elevators, utilities, and voice/data
communications. An application, system, or process is Mission Critical if it is
vital to the successful continuance of a core business activity.

      Huntington's progress towards meeting the Plan's goals for both IT and
Non-IT systems, which follows a five phase approach recommended by federal bank
regulators, is as follows:



      Huntington depends on various third-party vendors, suppliers, and service
providers. The activities undertaken by these third parties can vary from
processing and settlement of automated teller transactions to mortgage loan
processing. Huntington will be dependent on the continued service by its
vendors, suppliers, service providers, and ultimately its customers' continued
operations in order to avoid business interruptions. Any interruption in a third
party's ability to provide goods and services, such as issues with
telecommunication links, power, and transportation, could present problems.
Huntington has identified approximately ten material third-party relationships
with a focus on those considered "Mission Critical." Huntington is presently
working with each of these parties to test transactions and/or interfaces
between its processors, obtain appropriate information from each party, or
assess each party's ability to be prepared for the Year 2000.

      Over forty full-time staff members are dedicated to the Year 2000 effort
and, on a part-time basis, multitudes of internal personnel from various
disciplines throughout the Huntington organization are also working on this
project. Furthermore, Huntington has engaged an independent consultant to
establish a Year 2000 Program Management Office (PMO). The PMO organizes
Huntington's Year 2000 project management activities beyond the technical
information services group into all business units. The PMO creates the
methodology that is used in every business unit and also brings a quality
assurance process that reviews the thoroughness of the actions taken to remedy
the Year 2000 problem.



     Identifiable costs for the Year 2000 project incurred in 1998 were $13.1
million. Management estimates it will cost an additional $16 million to bring
its systems and business processes into compliance and to implement elements of
its contingency plan. However, these expenses are not expected to materially
impact operating results in any one period. These estimated costs incorporate
not only incremental third-party expenses but also include salary and benefit
costs of employees redeployed and full implementation of a call center to handle
increased customer inquiries before and after January 1, 2000.

     Major business risks associated with the Year 2000 problem include, but are
not limited to, infrastructure failures, disruptions to the economy in general,
excessive cash withdrawal activity, closure of government offices, foreign
banks, and clearing houses, and increased problem loans and credit losses in the
event that borrowers fail to properly respond to the problem. These risks, along
with the risk of Huntington failing to adequately complete the remaining phases
of its project work and the resulting possible inability to properly process
core business transactions and meet contractual servicing agreements, could
expose Huntington to loss of revenues, litigation, and asset quality
deterioration.

    The Year 2000 problem is unique in that it has never previously occurred;
thus, it is not possible to completely foresee or quantify the overall or any
specific financial or operational impacts to Huntington or to third parties
which provide Mission Critical services to the company. Huntington has, however,
implemented several proactive processes to identify and mitigate risk involving
systems and processes over which it has control, including strengthening its
Business Resumption Plan for the Year 2000 by adding alternatives for systems
and networks in support of critical applications. The modifications to
Huntington's contingency plan are now complete and have been tested and
validated for all core business processes. Huntington's senior management
believes successful modifications to existing systems and conversions to new
systems will substantially reduce the risk of Year 2000 disruption.

INTEREST RATE RISK AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT

INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
- -----------------------------

    Huntington seeks to achieve consistent growth in net interest income and net
income while managing volatility arising from shifts in interest rates. The
Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO) oversees financial risk
management, establishing broad policies and specific



Note: Weighted average yields were calculated on the basis of amortized cost and
      have been adjusted to a fully tax equivalent basis, assuming a 35% tax 
      rate.

operating limits that govern a variety of financial risks inherent in
Huntington's operations, including interest rate, liquidity, counterparty,
settlement, and market risks. On and off-balance sheet strategies and tactics
are reviewed and monitored regularly by ALCO to ensure consistency with approved
risk tolerances.

    Interest rate risk management is a dynamic process, encompassing the
business flows onto the balance sheet, wholesale investment and funding, and the
changing market and business environment. Effective management of interest rate
risk begins with appropriately diversified investments and funding sources. To
accomplish its overall balance sheet objectives, Huntington regularly accesses a
variety of global markets--money, bond, futures, and options--as well as
numerous trading exchanges. In addition, dealers in over-the-counter financial
instruments provide availability of interest rate swaps as needed.



      Measurement and monitoring of interest rate risk is an ongoing process. A
key element in this process is Huntington's estimation of the amount that net
interest income will change over a twelve to twenty-four month period given a
directional shift in interest rates. The income simulation model used by
Huntington captures all assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet financial
instruments, accounting for significant variables that are believed to be
affected by interest rates. These include prepayment speeds on mortgages and
consumer installment loans, cash flows of loans and deposits, principal
amortization on revolving credit instruments, and balance sheet growth
assumptions. The model also captures embedded options, e.g. interest rate
caps/floors or call options, and accounts for changes in rate relationships, as
various rate indices lead or lag changes in market rates. While these
assumptions are inherently uncertain, management assigns probabilities and,
therefore, believes that, at any point in time, the model provides a reasonably
accurate estimate of Huntington's interest rate risk exposure. Management
reporting of this information is regularly shared with the Board of Directors.

    At December 31, 1998, the results of Huntington's interest sensitivity
analysis indicated that net interest income would increase by approximately 1%
given a 100 to 200 basis point decrease in the federal funds rate (assuming the
change occurs evenly over the next year and that corresponding changes in other
market rates occur as forecasted). Net interest income would be expected to
decrease by approximately 1% if rates rose 100 basis points and would drop 2% in
the event of a 200 basis point increase.

    Active interest rate risk management necessitates the use of various types
of off-balance sheet financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. Risk
that is created by different indices on products, by unequal terms to maturity
of assets and liabilities, and by products that are appealing to customers but
incompatible with current risk limits can be eliminated or decreased in a cost
efficient manner by utilizing interest rate swaps. Often, the swap strategy has
enabled Huntington to lower the overall cost of raising wholesale funds.
Similarly, financial futures, interest rate caps and floors, options, and
forward rate agreements are used to control financial risk effectively.
Off-balance sheet instruments are often preferable to similar cash instruments
because, though performing identically, they require less capital while
preserving access to the marketplace.



At December 31, 1998, Huntington had no concentrations of securities by a single
issuer in excess of 10% of shareholders' equity.

(1) Weighted average yields were calculated on the basis of amortized cost.





(1) Receive fixed only at December 31, 1998.



      Table 9 above illustrates the approximate market values, estimated
maturities and weighted average rates of the interest rate swaps used by
Huntington in its interest rate risk management program at December 31, 1998.

      As is the case with cash securities, the market value of interest rate
swaps is largely a function of the financial market's expectations regarding the
future direction of interest rates. Accordingly, current market values are not
necessarily indicative of the future impact of the swaps on net interest income.
This will depend, in large part, on the shape of the yield curve as well as
interest rate levels. With respect to the variable rate information and the
indexed amortizing swap maturities presented in Table 9, management made no
assumptions regarding future changes in interest rates.

      The pay rates on Huntington's receive-fixed swaps vary based on movements
in the applicable London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Receive-fixed asset
conversion swaps and receive-fixed liability conversion swaps with notional
values of $600 million and $800 million, respectively, have embedded written
LIBOR-based call options. The portfolio of amortizing swaps consists primarily
of contracts that are indexed to the prepayment experience of a specified pool
of mortgage loans. As market interest rates change, the amortization of the
notional value of the swap will also change, generally slowing as rates increase
and accelerating when rates fall. Basis swaps are contracts that provide for
both parties to receive interest payments according to different rate indices
and are used to protect against changes in spreads between market rates.

      The notional values of the swap portfolio represent contractual amounts on
which interest payments to be exchanged are based. These notional values do not
represent direct credit exposures. At December 31, 1998, Huntington's credit
risk from interest rate swaps used for asset/liability management purposes was
$103.4 million, which represents the sum of the aggregate fair value of
positions that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued
interest receivable due from counterparties. In order to minimize the risk that
a swap counterparty will not satisfy its interest payment obligation under the
terms of the contract, Huntington performs credit reviews on all counterparties,
restricts the number of counterparties used to a select group of high quality
institutions, obtains collateral, and enters into formal netting arrangements.
Huntington has never experienced any past due amounts from a swap counterparty
and does not anticipate nonperformance in the future by any such counterparties.

      The total notional amount of off-balance sheet instruments used by
Huntington on behalf of customers (for which the related interest rate risk is
offset by third party contracts) was $564 million at December 31, 1998. Total
credit exposure from such contracts is not material. These separate activities,
which are accounted for at fair value, are not a significant part of
Huntington's operations. Accordingly, they have been excluded from the above
discussion of off-balance sheet financial instruments and the related table.






LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
- --------------------

      Liquidity management is also a significant responsibility of ALCO. The
objective of ALCO in this regard is to maintain an optimum balance of
maturities among Huntington's assets and liabilities such that sufficient cash, 
or access to cash, is available at all times to meet the needs of borrowers,
depositors, and creditors, as well as to fund corporate expansion and other     
activities. 

      A chief source of Huntington's liquidity is derived from the large retail 
deposit base accessible by its network of geographically dispersed banking
offices. This core funding is supplemented by Huntington's demonstrated ability
to raise funds in capital markets and to access funds nationwide. The company's
$6 billion domestic bank note and $2 billion European bank note programs are
significant sources of wholesale funding. Under these programs, unsecured
senior and subordinated notes are issuable with maturities ranging from one
month to thirty years. A similar $750 million note program exists at the parent
holding company, the proceeds from which are used from time to time to fund
certain non-banking activities, finance acquisitions, repurchase Huntington's
common stock, or for other general corporate purposes. At December 31, 1998,
approximately $5.2 billion of notes were available under these programs to fund
Huntington's future activities. Huntington also has $300 million of capital
securities outstanding through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Huntington
Capital I and II. A $200 million line of credit is also available to the parent
holding company to support commercial paper borrowings and other short-term
working capital needs.

      While liability sources are many, significant liquidity is also available 
from Huntington's investment and loan portfolios. ALCO regularly monitors the   
overall liquidity position of the business and ensures that various alternative
strategies exist to cover unanticipated events. At the end of the recent year,
sufficient liquidity was available to meet estimated short-term and long-term
funding needs.




CREDIT RISK

      Huntington's exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of
consistent underwriting standards that emphasize "in-market" lending to
established borrowers. Highly leveraged transactions and excessive industry or
other concentrations are avoided. The credit administration function also
employs extensive monitoring procedures to ensure problem loans are promptly
identified and that loans adhere to corporate policy. These procedures provide
executive management with the information necessary to implement appropriate
change and take corrective action as needed.

      Non-performing assets consist of loans that are no longer accruing
interest, loans that have been renegotiated based upon financial difficulties of
the borrower, and real estate acquired through foreclosure. Total non-performing
assets were $96.1 million and $87.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 1998
and 1997. As of these same dates, non-performing loans represented .40% of total
loans, and non-performing assets as a percent of total loans and other real
estate were .49%. Loans past due ninety days or more but continuing to accrue
interest were $51.0 million at the end of the recent year, up only slightly from
$49.7 million in 1997.

      Huntington also actively manages potential problem loans that are current
as to principal and interest but require closer monitoring in the event of
deterioration in borrower performance. These potential problem credits totaled
$27.1 million and $54.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 1998, and 1997.




CAPITAL AND DIVIDENDS

      Huntington places significant emphasis on the maintenance of strong
capital, which promotes investor confidence, provides access to the national
markets under favorable terms, and enhances business growth and acquisition
opportunities. Huntington also recognizes the importance of managing excess
capital and continually strives to maintain an appropriate balance between
capital adequacy and returns to shareholders. Capital is managed at each
subsidiary based upon the respective risks and growth opportunities, as well as
regulatory requirements.

      Average shareholders' equity for the twelve months ended December 31,
1998, and 1997 was $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. Huntington's
ratio of average equity to average assets in the recent twelve months was 7.68%,
compared with 7.53% one year ago. 

        Risk-based capital guidelines established by the Federal Reserve Board
set minimum capital requirements and require institutions to calculate
risk-based capital ratios by assigning risk weightings to assets and
off-balance sheet items, such as interest rate swaps and loan commitments.
These guidelines further define "well-capitalized" levels for Tier 1, Total
Capital, and Leverage ratio purposes at 6%, 10%, and 5%, respectively. At the
recent year end, Huntington's Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 7.10%, its
total risk-based capital ratio was 10.73%, and its leverage ratio was 6.37%,
each of which exceeds the "well-capitalized" requirements.

      Cash dividends declared were $.76 a share in 1998, up 11.8% from 1997. A
10% stock dividend was also distributed to shareholders in the year just ended,
marking the twenty-fifth consecutive year in which Huntington has issued a stock
split or stock dividend.

      In September 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the reactivation of
Huntington's common stock repurchase program, which was previously suspended in
May 1997 due to the First Michigan pooling-of-interests merger transaction. In
connection with the reinstatement of the program, the Board of Directors also
increased the number of shares authorized for repurchase to 15 million, up from
approximately 3 million shares remaining when the




Note: For 1998, the amount of interest income which would have been recorded
under the original terms for total loans classified as non-accrual or
renegotiated was $6.4 million. Amounts actually collected and recorded as
interest income for these loans totaled $2.9 million.



plan was suspended. The shares will be purchased through open market purchases
and privately negotiated transactions. Repurchased shares will be reserved for
reissue in connection with Huntington's dividend reinvestment, stock option, and
other benefit plans as well as for stock dividends and other corporate purposes.
In 1998, Huntington repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares.

FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS

     On an operating basis, earnings for the fourth quarter of 1998 were $91.5
million, compared with $90.6 million in the same period last year. On a diluted
per share basis, operating earnings were $.43, versus $.42 per share in 1997.
ROE for the most recent quarter was 17.87%, compared with 18.23% for the same
period a year ago. ROA was 1.31%, versus 1.41% in last year's final three
months. Cash basis ROE was 29.44% in the recent quarter compared with 21.78% in
the comparable period of 1997. Cash basis ROA was 1.45% versus 1.48% one year
ago. Reported net income for the fourth quarter of 1998, including special
charges, was $31.2 million, or $.15 per share. ROE was 6.10% and ROA was .45%.

     Net interest income was $267.3 million in the recent quarter, an increase
of 3% over the corresponding period last year. This increase was driven by
growth in, and a favorable mix of, earning assets as well as a less expensive
liability structure. Compression in loan spreads and higher non-earning assets
mitigated these benefits and caused a narrowing of the margin percentage.
Commercial loans, indirect automobile financing, credit card, and home equity
lending each posted double-digit growth in the recent three months. As a result,
total loans increased 6.6% (annualized) from the prior quarter, despite softness
in real estate portfolio lending. Core deposits grew 3.2%, primarily due to
increases in transaction accounts of 2.4% and savings deposits of 13.8%.

     The provision for loan losses was $34.3 million in the last quarter of the
year, compared with $26.2 million in the same period of 1997. Annualized net
charge-offs were .61% of average loans in both the fourth quarters of 1998 and
1997.

     Non-interest income, excluding securities gains, was $106.7 million for the
recent quarter, up from $87.5 million for the three months ended December 31,
1997, or an increase of 22%. Improvements were broad-based with substantial
increases in brokerage and insurance and electronic banking. Non-interest
expense, excluding special charges, totaled $208.9 million in the most recent
three months, versus $188.5 million in the final three months of 1997. The
recently announced expense reduction initiatives have already contributed to a
7.3% decrease in personnel and related costs versus the prior quarter and helped
reduce the fourth quarter efficiency ratio to 52.98%.





(1) Fully tax equivalent yields are calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
    Average loan balances include non-accruing loans. Interest income includes
    cash on non-accruing loans.







SELECTED ANNUAL INCOME STATEMENT DATA
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



(1) Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable. 

(2) Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.



MARKET PRICES, KEY RATIOS
AND STATISTICS (QUARTERLY DATA)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




(1)  Adjusted for stock splits and stock dividends, as applicable.
     Note: Stock price quotations were obtained from NASDAQ.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




(1) Presented on an "operating" basis (excludes special charges and related
    taxes).

(2) Presented on a fully tax equivalent basis assuming a 35% tax rate.



SELECTED QUARTERLY INCOME STATEMENT DATA
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



(1) Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable.

(2) Presented on an "operating basis" (excludes special charges and related
    taxes).

(3) Tangible or "Cash Basis" net income excludes amortization of goodwill and
    other intangibles.






ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         Information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 on pages 18
through 21 under the caption "Interest Rate Risk and Liquidity Management."

ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     The integrity of the financial statements and other financial information
contained in this Form 10-K is the responsibility of the management of
Huntington. Such financial information has been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, based on the best estimates and
judgment of management.

     Huntington maintains a system of internal accounting controls designed to
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed and recorded in
accordance with management's authorization and that the assets of Huntington are
properly safeguarded. This system includes the careful selection and training of
staff, the communication of policies and procedures consistent with the highest
standards of business conduct, and the maintenance of an internal audit
function.

     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed entirely of
outside directors and it meets periodically with both internal and independent
auditors to review the results and recommendations of their audits. This
Committee selects the independent auditor with the approval of shareholders.

     The accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP has been engaged by Huntington to
audit its financial statements, and their report appears to the right.

   /s/ Frank Wobst                     /s/ Gerald R. Williams
   Frank Wobst                         Gerald R. Williams
   Chairman and                        Executive Vice President
   Chief Executive Officer             and Chief Financial Officer


REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP,
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Huntington
Bancshares Incorporated and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1998. These financial statements are the responsibility of the company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Huntington
Bancshares Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

                                                           /s/ Ernst & Young LLP


Columbus, Ohio
January 13, 1999






See notes to consolidated financial statements.








(1) Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable.


See notes to consolidated financial statements.






See notes to consolidated financial statements.





NOTE: Huntington made interest payments of $995,625, $964,203, and $886,020 in
      1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. Federal income tax payments were
      $77,407 in 1998, $114,755 in 1997, and $120,645 in 1996.



See notes to consolidated financial statements.


1.    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF OPERATIONS: Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) is a
multi-state bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and
headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, Huntington conducts a
full-service commercial and consumer banking business and provides other
financial products and services, principally to domestic customers.

     BASIS OF PRESENTATION: The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Huntington and its subsidiaries and are presented on the basis of
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior
period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's
presentation.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     NEW PRONOUNCEMENTS: In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." Pursuant to
this rule, the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity now
include a new measure called "Comprehensive Income," which includes net income
as well as certain items that are reported within a separate component of
shareholders' equity that bypass net income. Currently, Huntington's only
component of Other Comprehensive Income is its unrealized gains (losses) on
securities available for sale.

     The FASB also issued Statement No. 131, "Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information" in June 1997. The provisions of this
Statement require disclosure of financial and descriptive information about an
enterprise's operating segments. The Statement defines an operating segment as a
component of an enterprise that engages in business activities that generate
revenue and incur expense. A segment is further defined as a component whose
operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker in the
determination of resource allocation and performance, and for which discrete
financial information is available. It also establishes standards for related
disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, and major customers.
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the segment
information required by the new standard.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" (FAS 133). This Statement establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument
(including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its
fair value. The Statement requires that changes in the derivative's fair value
be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges allows gains and losses from
derivatives to offset related results on the hedged item in the income
statement, and requires that a company must formally document, designate, and
assess the effectiveness of transactions for which hedge accounting is applied.

     FAS 133 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. It may
be implemented earlier provided adoption occurs as of the beginning of any
fiscal quarter after issuance. FAS 133 cannot be applied retroactively.

     Huntington expects to adopt FAS 133 in the first quarter of 2000. Based on
information available, the impact of adoption is not expected to be material to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     SECURITIES: Debt securities that Huntington has both the positive intent
and ability to hold to maturity are classified as investments and are carried at
amortized cost. Securities purchased with the intention of recognizing
short-term profits are placed in the trading account and carried at fair value.
Securities not classified as investments or trading are designated available for
sale and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on securities
available for sale are carried as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. Unrealized gains and losses on
securities classified as trading are reported in earnings. The amortized cost of
specific securities sold is used to compute realized gains and losses.

     LOANS: Loans are stated at the principal amount outstanding, net of
unearned discount. Interest income on loans is primarily accrued based on
principal amounts outstanding. Income from lease financing is recognized on a
basis to achieve a constant periodic rate of return on the outstanding
investment. The accrual of interest income on loans and leases is discontinued
when the collection of principal, interest, or both is doubtful. When interest
accruals are suspended, interest income accrued in the current period is
generally reversed. Huntington uses the cost recovery method in accounting for
cash



1.   ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

received on non-accrual loans. Under this method, cash receipts are applied
entirely against principal until the loan has been collected in full, after
which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income.

     Net direct loan origination costs/fees, when material, are deferred and
amortized over the term of the loan as a yield adjustment.

     ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES: The allowance for loan losses reflects
management's judgment as to the level considered appropriate to absorb probable
losses in the loan portfolio. This judgment is based on a review of individual
loans, historical loss experience, economic conditions, portfolio trends, and
other factors. The allowance is increased by provisions charged to earnings and
reduced by charge-offs, net of recoveries.

     The portion of the allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans
(non-accruing and restructured credits, exclusive of smaller, homogeneous loans)
is based on discounted cash flows using the loans initial effective interest
rate or the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent loans.

     OTHER REAL ESTATE: Other real estate acquired through partial or total
satisfaction of loans, is included in other assets and carried at the lower of
cost or fair value less estimated costs of disposition. At the date of
acquisition, any losses are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent
write-downs are included in non-interest expense. Realized losses from
disposition of the property and declines in fair value that are considered
permanent are charged to the reserve for other real estate, as applicable.

     PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT: Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed principally by the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
Estimated useful lives employed are on average 30 years for buildings, 10 to 20
years for building improvements, 10 years for land improvements, 3 to 7 years
for equipment, and 10 years for furniture and fixtures.

     MORTGAGE BANKING ACTIVITIES: Mortgages held for sale are reported at the
lower of cost or aggregate market value primarily as determined by outstanding
commitments from investors.

     Capitalized mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are evaluated for impairment
based on the fair value of those rights, using a disaggregated approach. MSRs
are amortized on an accelerated basis over the estimated period of net servicing
revenue.

     BUSINESS COMBINATIONS: Net assets of entities acquired, for which the
purchase method of accounting was used by Huntington, were recorded at their
estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess of cost over the
fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) is being amortized over periods
generally up to 25 years. Core deposits and other identifiable acquired
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives.

     OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: Huntington uses certain
off-balance sheet financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, in
connection with its asset/liability management activities. Purchased interest
rate options (including caps and floors), futures, and forwards are also used to
manage interest rate risk. Provided these instruments meet specific criteria,
they are considered hedges and accounted for under the accrual or deferral
methods, as more fully discussed below. Off-balance sheet financial instruments
that do not meet the required criteria are carried on the balance sheet at fair
value with realized and unrealized changes in that value recognized in earnings.
Similarly, if the hedged item is sold or its outstanding balance otherwise
declines below that of the related hedging instrument, the off-balance sheet
product is marked-to-market and the resulting gain or loss is included in
earnings. Accrual accounting is used when the cash flows attributable to the
hedging instrument satisfy the objectives of the asset/liability management
strategy. Huntington uses the accrual method for substantially all of its
interest rate swaps as well as for interest rate options. Amounts receivable or
payable under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to the interest
income or expense of the hedged item. There is no recognition on the balance
sheet for changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument, except for
interest rate swaps designated as hedges of securities available for sale, for
which changes in fair values are reported in accumulated other comprehensive
income. Premiums paid for interest rate options are deferred as a component of
other assets and amortized to interest income or expense over the contract term.
Gains and losses on terminated hedging instruments are also deferred and
amortized to interest income or expense generally over the remaining life of the
hedged item.



1.   ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

     Huntington employs deferral accounting when the market value of the hedging
instrument meets the objectives of the asset/liability management strategy and
the hedged item is reported at other than fair value. In such cases, gains and
losses associated with futures and forwards are deferred as an adjustment to the
carrying value of the related asset or liability and are recognized in the
corresponding interest income or expense accounts over the remaining life of the
hedged item.

     STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS: Cash and cash equivalents are defined as `Cash and
due from banks' and "Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements."

2.   1998 SPECIAL CHARGE

     In October 1998, Huntington announced several initiatives to strengthen its
financial performance. These initiatives included the realignment of the banking
network; the exit of underperforming product lines and delivery channels; the
reduction of 1,000 work force positions, or approximately 10% of the total
employee base; and other cost savings measures. As a result of the above
initiatives, Huntington incurred a special charge of $90 million in the fourth
quarter of the year. Included in the one-time expenses were severance costs for
terminated employees, the non-cash write-off of information systems equipment
and software that were abandoned in the fourth quarter of the year, the
write-down to fair value of retail banking offices to be closed, the costs to
terminate certain long-term lease contracts related to retail banking offices to
be closed, and the estimated amounts to be written off or paid to complete the
exit activities, as more fully described below, that were begun in 1998.
Management expects that the actions discussed below will be substantially
complete by the fourth quarter of 1999.

     The work force reduction spans the entire organization and is in large part
attributable to continued internal consolidation efforts by Huntington that
resulted in the formation of a single interstate banking charter, as well as
continued efficiency opportunities in back room operations such as loan and
deposit administration. Through December 31, 1998, 409 employees had been
terminated.

     Operational equipment charges relate to the write-off of $4 million in
computer equipment that was abandoned and replaced in the fourth quarter of
1998. In addition, Huntington abandoned certain customized software projects
with a book value of $8 million that were determined not to be economically
viable and had no alternative use within the organization.

     The retail banking office costs stem from Huntington's announcement that it
will close 39 underperforming banking offices, substantially all of which will
be closed by the end of the second quarter of 1999. Non-cash charges relate to
the write-down to fair value (estimated selling price) of 20 branches that are
to be closed and held for disposal. These branches have a remaining carrying
value of approximately $4 million. Other non-cash charges relate to the
write-off of leasehold improvements in 19 branches that are to be closed. The
cash portion of the charge relates to amounts to be paid to terminate lease and
other contracts on the branches that are to be closed.

     Non-cash exit costs relate to unrecoverable assets associated with
discontinued business activities such as returned check processing, commercial
equipment leasing, out of geographic market credit card lending, and the
indirect lending operation in Pittsburgh. Cash exit costs relate principally to
the decision to terminate the employee benefit plan administrative services
business. Such business was exited in the fourth quarter of 1998. The costs
primarily are composed of cash payments to third party vendors to be incurred to
fulfill Huntington's contractual obligations with regard to benefit plan
customers prior to the transfer of the administrative service to another vendor.

     Revenues and operating income of activities exited and retail banking
offices to be closed are not significant to Huntington's operating results.

     The table below summarizes the major components of the special charge, as
well as the related amounts applied against the reserve in 1998. Huntington
expects that the remaining reserve of $54 million, which represents estimated
future cash outlays, will be substantially utilized during 1999.





3.       MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

     On June 26, 1998, Huntington completed the acquisition of sixty former
Barnett Banks banking offices in Florida from NationsBank Corporation. The
transaction was accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly, the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair value. The
transaction added approximately $1.3 billion in loans and $2.3 billion in
deposits. Intangible assets arising from the acquisition totaled approximately
$460 million. The acquired branches' results of operations have been included in
Huntington's consolidated totals from the date of the acquisition only.

     On September 30, 1997, Huntington completed its acquisition of First
Michigan, a $3.6 billion bank holding company headquartered in Holland,
Michigan. Huntington issued approximately 32.2 million shares of common stock to
the shareholders of First Michigan in a transaction accounted for as a pooling
of interests. In connection with the acquisition, Huntington incurred a merger-
related charge of $51 million consisting primarily of personnel, facilities, and
systems costs, as well as $12 million of professional fees and other costs to
effect the business combination. At December 31, 1998, the merger-related
reserve had been fully used.

4.    SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE

     Amortized cost, unrealized gains and losses, and fair values of securities
available for sale as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, were:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Contractual maturities of securities available for sale as of December 31, 1998
and 1997, were:




4.   SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE (CONTINUED)

     Gross gains from sales of securities of $41.5. million, $12.3 million, and
$24.7 million were realized in 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. Gross losses
totaled $11.7 million in 1998, $4.3 million in 1997, and $7.1 million in 1996.
Huntington securitized and transferred to securities available for sale $108.7
million and $115.1 million of residential mortgage loans in 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

5.     INVESTMENT SECURITIES

     Amortized cost, unrealized gains and losses, and fair values of investment
securities as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, were:


     Amortized cost and fair values by contractual maturity at December 31, 1998
and 1997, were:


         The portfolio of investment securities acquired in the September 1997
First Michigan merger was sold and/or transferred to the available for sale
category to maintain Huntington's existing interest rate risk position. At the
date of sale/transfer, amortized cost and fair value were $225.3 million and
$233.5 million, respectively.

6.    LOANS

     At December 31, 1998 and 1997, loans were comprised of the following:


     Huntington's subsidiaries have granted loans to their officers, directors,
and related associates. Such loans were made in the ordinary course of business
under normal credit terms, including interest rate and collateralization, and do
not represent more than the normal risk of collection. These loans to related
parties are summarized as follows:




                                            
7.    ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

     A summary of the transactions in the allowance for loan losses and details
regarding impaired loans follows for the three years ended December 31:
                                                                      
                                                                               
8.     PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

     At December 31, 1998 and 1997, premises and equipment stated at cost were
comprised of the following:

     Depreciation and amortization charged and rental income credited to expense
were as follows:


     In 1998, Huntington entered into a sale/leaseback agreement that included
the sale of 59 properties with a book value approximating $110 million. The
transaction included a mix of branch banking offices, regional offices, and
operations facilities, which Huntington will continue to operate under a
long-term lease. Proceeds of $174.1 million received from the sale were used to
reduce short-term debt. The resulting deferred gain is being amortized as a
reduction of occupancy expense over the lease term.




9.    SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

       At December 31, 1998 and 1997, short-term borrowings were comprised of 
the following:


     Information concerning securities sold under agreements to repurchase is
summarized as follows:


     Commercial paper is issued by Huntington Bancshares Financial Corporation, 
a non-bank subsidiary, with principal and interest guaranteed by Huntington 
Bancshares Incorporated (Parent Company).

     Huntington has the ability to borrow under a line of credit totaling $200
million to support short-term working capital needs. Under the terms of the
agreement, a quarterly fee must be paid and there are no compensating balances
required. The line is cancelable, by Huntington, upon written notice and
terminates August 23, 2000. There were no borrowings under the line in 1998 or
1997.

     Securities pledged to secure public or trust deposits, repurchase
agreements, and for other purposes were $2.0 billion and $2.1 billion at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

10.  CAPITAL SECURITIES

     The Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities
of subsidiary trusts holding solely the junior subordinated debentures of the
parent company ("Capital Securities") were issued by two wholly-owned business
trusts, Huntington Capital I and II ("the Trusts"). Huntington Capital I was
formed in January 1997 while Huntington Capital II was formed in June 1998. The
Trusts used the proceeds from the issuance of the Capital Securities, together
with Huntington's investment in the common stock of the Trusts, to purchase
debentures of the parent company. The junior subordinated debentures of the
parent company are the only assets of the Trusts. The debentures and their
related income statement effects are eliminated in Huntington's consolidated
financial statements.

     The parent company has entered into contractual arrangements that, taken 
collectively and in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by the parent company of the Trusts' obligations under the Capital    
Securities. The contractual arrangements guarantee payment of (a) accrued and
unpaid distributions required to be paid on the Capital Securities; (b) the
redemption price with respect to any Capital Securities called for redemption
by the Trusts; and (c) payments due upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
winding-up, or termination of the Trusts, as set forth in the Guarantee. The
Capital Securities, and common stock, and related debentures are summarized as
follows:


(1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 1998 and 1997, of 5.92% and 6.48%,
respectively.

(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 1998, of 5.85%.


11.  DEBT

     At December 31, 1998 and 1997, Huntington's debt consisted of the
following:


PARENT COMPANY OBLIGATIONS:

     The 7 7/8% Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity in 2002, and do not
provide for any sinking fund. Interest rate swaps were used by Huntington to
convert the Notes to a variable interest rate. At December 31, 1998, the
effective interest rate on the swap-adjusted Notes was 5.96%.

     The Medium-term notes had weighted average interest rates of 6.12% and
5.99% at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

SUBSIDIARY OBLIGATIONS:

     The 7 5/8% Notes and the 6 3/4% Notes were both issued by The Huntington
National Bank in 1993. Adjusted for the effects of interest rate swaps, the
effective rates were 5.82% and 5.26%, respectively, at December 31, 1998. These
Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity in 2003, and do not provide for any
sinking fund. The 6 3/5% Notes and the Floating Rate Notes were issued by The
Huntington National Bank in 1998. Adjusted for the effects of interest rate
swaps, the interest rates were 5.68% and 5.73% at December 31, 1998. The
Floating Rate Notes are based on the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR).

     The Medium-term bank notes had weighted average interest rates of 5.57% and
5.98% at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The stated interest rates on
certain of these notes have also been modified by interest rate swaps. At
December 31, 1998, the weighted average effective interest rate on the
swap-adjusted Medium-term bank notes was 5.16%.

     The Federal Home Loan Bank notes mature serially from February 1999 through
December 1999, and had a weighted average interest rate of 6.15% and 5.84% at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. These advances cannot be prepaid
without penalty.

     The terms of Huntington's medium and long-term debt obligations contain
various restrictive covenants including limitations on the acquisition of
additional debt in excess of specified levels, dividend payments, and the
disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1998, Huntington was in
compliance with all such covenants.


11.  DEBT (CONTINUED)


12.  OPERATING LEASES

     At December 31, 1998, Huntington and its subsidiaries were obligated under
noncancelable operating leases for land, buildings, and equipment. Many of these
leases contain renewal options, and certain leases provide options to purchase
the leased property during or at the expiration of the lease period at specified
prices. Some leases contain escalation clauses calling for rentals to be
adjusted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses, or
proportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other price indices.
The following summary reflects the future minimum rental payments, by year,
required under operating leases that, as of December 31, 1998, have initial or
remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year.

     Excluded from the following amounts are minimum sublease rentals of $50.3
million due in the future under noncancelable subleases. The rental expense for
all operating leases was $23.3 million for 1998, compared with $25.2 million in
1997 and $23.0 million in 1996.





13.  OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS

     In the normal course of business, Huntington is party to financial
instruments with varying degrees of credit and market risk in excess of the
amounts reflected as assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Loan commitments and letters of credit are commonly used to meet the financing
needs of customers, while interest rate swaps, purchased options, futures, and
forwards are an integral part of Huntington's asset/liability management
activities. To a much lesser extent, various financial instrument agreements are
entered into to assist customers in managing their exposure to interest rate
fluctuations. These customer agreements, for which Huntington counters interest
rate risk through offsetting third party contracts, are considered trading
activities.

     The credit risk arising from loan commitments and letters of credit,
represented by their contract amounts, is essentially the same as that involved
in extending loans to customers, and both arrangements are subject to
Huntington's standard credit policies and procedures. Collateral is obtained
based on management's credit assessment of the customer and, for commercial
transactions, may consist of accounts receivable, inventory, income-producing
properties, and other assets. Residential properties are the principal form of
collateral for consumer commitments.

     Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-balance sheet
financial instruments significantly exceed the credit risk associated with these
instruments and represent contractual balances on which calculations of amounts
to be exchanged are based. Credit exposure is limited to the sum of the
aggregate fair value of positions that have become favorable to Huntington,
including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential
credit losses are minimized through careful evaluation of counterparty credit
standing, selection of counterparties from a limited group of high quality
institutions, collateral agreements, and other contract provisions. At December
31, 1998, Huntington's credit risk from these off-balance sheet arrangements,
including trading activities, was approximately $131.3 million.



13.  OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS  (CONTINUED)

     The contract or notional amount of financial instruments with off-balance
sheet risk at December 31, 1998 and 1997, is presented in the following table:


     Commitments to extend credit generally have short-term, fixed expiration
dates, are variable rate, and contain clauses that permit Huntington to
terminate or otherwise renegotiate the contracts in the event of a significant
deterioration in the customer's credit quality. These arrangements normally
require the payment of a fee by the customer, the pricing of which is based on
prevailing market conditions, credit quality, probability of funding, and other
relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire without
being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future
cash requirements. The interest rate risk arising from these financial
instruments is insignificant as a result of their predominantly short-term,
variable rate nature.

     Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by Huntington
to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These guarantees
are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements,
including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. Most of
these arrangements mature within two years. Approximately 38% of standby letters
of credit are collateralized, and nearly 90% are expected to expire without
being drawn upon.

     Commercial letters of credit represent short-term, self-liquidating
instruments that facilitate customer trade transactions and have maturities of
no longer than ninety days. These instruments are normally secured by the
merchandise or cargo being traded.

     Interest rate swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange periodic
interest payments that are calculated on a notional principal amount. Huntington
enters into swaps to synthetically alter the repricing characteristics of
designated earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and, on a much more
limited basis, as an intermediary for customers. Because only interest payments
are exchanged, cash requirements of swaps are significantly less than the
notional amounts.

     Interest rate futures are commitments to either purchase or sell a
financial instrument at a future date for a specified price or yield and may be
settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying financial instrument.
Forward contracts, used primarily by Huntington in connection with its mortgage
banking activities, settle in cash at a specified future date based on the
differential between agreed interest rates applied to a notional amount.
Huntington also purchases interest rate options (e.g. caps and floors) to manage
fluctuating interest rates. Premiums paid for interest rate options grant
Huntington the right to receive at specified future dates the amount, if any, by
which a specified market interest rate exceeds the fixed cap rate or falls below
the fixed floor rate, applied to a notional amount. Exposure to loss from
interest rate contracts changes as interest rates fluctuate.





14.  REGULATORY MATTERS

     The bank subsidiary of Huntington is required to maintain reserve balances
with the Federal Reserve Bank. During 1998, the average balance of these
deposits was $192.5 million.

     Payment of dividends to Huntington by its subsidiary bank is subject to
various regulatory restrictions. Regulatory approval is required prior to the
declaration of any dividends in excess of available retained earnings. The
amount of dividends that may be declared without regulatory approval is further
limited to the sum of net income for that year and retained net income for the
preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Huntington's
subsidiary bank could, without regulatory approval, declare dividends in 1999 of
approximately $153.0 million plus an additional amount equal to its net income
through the date of declaration.

     The subsidiary bank is also restricted as to the amount and type of loans
it may make to Huntington. At December 31, 1998, the subsidiary bank could lend
to Huntington $222.7 million, subject to the qualifying collateral requirements
defined in the regulations.

         Huntington and its bank subsidiary are subject to various regulatory
capital requirements administered by federal and state banking agencies. Failure
to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain actions by regulators
that, if undertaken, could have a material effect on Huntington's and its bank
subsidiary's financial statements. Capital adequacy guidelines require minimum
ratios of 4.00% for Tier I risk-based capital, 8.00% for total risk-based
capital, and 3.00% for Tier I leverage. To be considered well capitalized under
the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the ratios must be at
least 6.00%, 10.00%, and 5.00%, respectively.

         Capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative
judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings of assets and
certain off-balance sheet items, and other factors. As of December 31, 1998 and
1997, Huntington has met all capital adequacy requirements. In addition, its
bank subsidiary had regulatory capital ratios in excess of the levels
established for well capitalized institutions.

     Presented in the table below are the capital ratios of Huntington and its
bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, as well as a comparison of the
period-end capital balances with the related amounts established by the
regulatory agencies.





15.  LINES OF BUSINESS

         Huntington segments its operations into five distinct lines of
business: Retail Banking; Corporate Banking; Dealer Sales; Private Financial
Group; and Treasury/Other. Line of business results are determined based upon
Huntington's business profitability reporting system, which assigns balance
sheet and income statement items to each of the business segments. The process
is designed around Huntington's organizational and management structure and
accordingly, the results are not necessarily comparable with similar information
published by other financial institutions. Listed below is certain financial
information regarding Huntington's 1998 results by line of business. For a
detailed description of the individual segments, refer to pages 13 and 14 of
this Form 10-K.



16.  LEGAL CONTINGENCIES

     In the ordinary course of business, there are various legal proceedings
pending against Huntington and its subsidiaries. In the opinion of management,
the aggregate liabilities, if any, arising from such proceedings are not
expected to have a material adverse effect on Huntington's consolidated
financial position.

17.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     Huntington sponsors a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan
covering substantially all employees. The plan provides benefits based upon
length of service and compensation levels. The funding policy of Huntington is
to contribute an annual amount which is at least equal to the minimum funding
requirements but not more than that deductible under the Internal Revenue Code.
Plan assets, held in trust, primarily consist of mutual funds.

     Huntington's unfunded defined benefit post-retirement plan provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits to retired employees who have attained
the age of 55 and have at least 10 years of service. For any employee retiring
on or after January 1, 1993, post-retirement healthcare and life insurance
benefits are based upon the employee's number of months of service and are
limited to the actual cost of coverage.




17.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
     The following table reconciles the funded status of the pension plan and
the post-retirement benefit plan at the applicable September 30 measurement
dates with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet at December
31:


     The following table shows the components of pension cost recognized in
1998, 1997, and 1996:.




     The 1999 health care cost trend rate was projected to be 8.50% for pre-65
participants and 7.50% for post-65 participants compared with estimates of 9.25%
and 8.00% in 1998. These rates are assumed to decrease gradually until they
reach 4.75% in the year 2005 and remain at that level thereafter.



17.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

     The assumed health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. A one-percentage point increase would increase service and
interest costs and post-retirement benefit obligation by $103 thousand and $1.1
million, respectively. A one-percentage point decrease would reduce service and
interest costs by $124 thousand and post-retirement benefit obligation by $1.3
million.

     Huntington also sponsors an unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan, a nonqualified plan that provides certain key officers of Huntington and
its subsidiaries with defined pension benefits in excess of limits imposed by
federal tax law. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the accrued pension cost for
this plan totaled $9.8 million and $10.5 million, respectively. Pension expense
for the plan was $1.2 million in 1998, and $1.3 million in both 1997, and 1996.

     Huntington has a contributory employee investment and tax savings plan
available to eligible employees. The plan was restated from an employee stock
purchase plan effective April 1, 1998, and renamed the Huntington Investment and
Tax Savings Plan. Matching contributions by Huntington equal 100% on the first
3% and 50% on the next 2% of participant elective deferrals. The cost of
providing this plan was $8.3 million in 1998, $9.7 million in 1997 and $9.0
million in 1996.

18.  STOCK OPTIONS

     Huntington sponsors non-qualified and incentive stock option plans covering
key employees. Approximately 19.8 million shares have been authorized under the
plans, 6.6 million of which were available at December 31, 1998 for future
grants. All options granted have a maximum term of ten years. Options granted on
or after May 18, 1994, vest ratably over prescribed periods; all grants
preceding this date became fully exercisable after one year.

     Huntington has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related
interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because the
alternative fair value accounting provided for under FASB Statement No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," requires use of option valuation
models that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options. Under
APB 25, because the exercise price of Huntington's employee stock options equals
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation
expense is recognized.

     Huntington's stock option activity and related information for the three
years ended December 31 is summarized below. All such data has been restated, as
applicable, for subsequent stock splits and stock dividends.




     Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1998, ranged
from $5.30 to $32.27. The weighted-average remaining contractual life of these
options is 6.9 years.

     The fair value of the options presented above was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted-average
assumptions were used for 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively: risk-free interest
rates of 5.28%, 6.44%, and 6.78%; dividend yields of 2.59%, 2.86%, and 3.41%;
volatility factors of the expected market price of Huntington's common stock of
 .262, .262, and .280; and a weighted average expected option life of 6 years.


18.  STOCK OPTIONS (CONTINUED)

        The following pro forma disclosures present Huntington's net income and
earnings per common share under the fair value method of accounting for stock
options:



19.  EARNINGS PER SHARE AND COMMON STOCK
     REPURCHASE PROGRAM

     Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings for the period available
to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted
earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each share of common
stock outstanding during the reporting period adjusted for the potential
issuance of common shares for stock options and the conversion impact of
convertible equity instruments. The calculation of basic and diluted earnings
per share follows for each of the three years ended December 31:


     Average common shares outstanding and the dilutive effect of stock options
and convertible debt have been adjusted for subsequent stock dividends and stock
splits, as applicable.

     In September 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the reactivation of
Huntington's common stock repurchase program, which was previously suspended in
May 1997 due to the First Michigan pooling-of-interests merger transaction. In
connection with the reinstatement of the program, the Board of Directors also
increased the number of shares authorized for repurchase to 15 million, up from
approximately 3 million shares remaining when the plan was suspended. The shares
will be purchased through open market purchases and privately negotiated
transactions.

     Repurchased shares will be reserved for reissue in connection with
Huntington's dividend reinvestment, stock option, and other benefit plans as
well as for stock dividends and other corporate purposes. In 1998, Huntington
repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares.


















20.   INCOME TAXES

     The following is a summary of the provision for income taxes:


     Tax expense associated with securities transactions included in the above
amounts were $10.8 million in 1998, $2.9 million in 1997, and $6.2 million in
1996.

     The following is a reconcilement of income tax expense to the amount
computed at the statutory rate of 35%:



     The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, are as follows:





21.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations
for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997:



(1) Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable.



22.   NON-INTEREST INCOME

     A summary of the components in non-interest income follows for the three
years ended December 31:


23.   NON-INTEREST EXPENSE

     A summary of the components in non-interest expense follows for the three
years ended December 31:



24.  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The components of Other Comprehensive Income were as follows in each of the
three years ended December 31:




25.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Huntington's financial
instruments are presented in the table on the next page. Certain assets, the
most significant being Bank Owned Life Insurance and premises and equipment, do
not meet the definition of a financial instrument and are excluded from this
disclosure. Similarly, mortgage servicing rights and deposit base and other
customer relationship intangibles are not considered financial instruments and
are not discussed below. Accordingly, this fair value information is not
intended to, and does not, represent Huntington's underlying value. Many of the
assets and liabilities subject to the disclosure requirements are not actively
traded, requiring fair values to be estimated by management. These estimations
necessarily involve the use of judgment about a wide variety of factors,
including but not limited to, relevancy of market prices of comparable
instruments, expected future cash flows, and appropriate discount rates.

     The terms and short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in
their carrying value approximating fair value. These include cash and due from
banks, interest bearing deposits in banks, trading account securities, federal
funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, customers'
acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, and bank acceptances outstanding.
Loan commitments and letters of credit generally have short-term, variable rate
features and contain clauses that limit Huntington's exposure to changes in
customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, which are
immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of
fair value.

     The following methods and assumptions were used by Huntington to estimate
the fair value of the remaining classes of financial instruments:

     Mortgages held for sale are valued at the lower of aggregate cost or market
value primarily as determined using outstanding commitments from investors.

     Fair values of securities available for sale and investment securities are
based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not
available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable
instruments. The carrying amount and fair value of securities exclude the fair
value of asset/liability management interest rate contracts designated as hedges
of securities available for sale.

     For variable rate loans that reprice frequently, fair values are based on
carrying amounts, as adjusted for estimated credit losses. The fair values for
other loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and employ
interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms. The rates
take into account the position of the yield curve, as well as an adjustment for
prepayment risk, operating costs, and profit. This value is also reduced by an
estimate of probable losses in the loan portfolio. Although not considered
financial instruments, lease financing receivables have been included in the
loan totals at their carrying amounts.

     The fair values of demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market
deposits are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand. The fair
values of fixed rate time deposits are estimated by discounting cash flows using
interest rates currently being offered on certificates with similar maturities.

     The fair values of Huntington's fixed rate long-term debt, as well as
medium-term notes and Capital Securities, are based upon quoted market prices
or, in the absence of quoted market prices, discounted cash flows using rates
for similar debt with the same maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate
obligations approximates fair value.

     The fair values of interest rate swap agreements and other off-balance
sheet interest rate contracts are based upon quoted market prices or prices of
similar instruments, when available, or calculated with pricing models using
current rate assumptions.




25. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)






26.  HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
     FINANCIAL INFORMATION





26. HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)


     Supplemental data required for this item is set forth in Item 7 on page 28
under the caption "Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data."

ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.




                                    Part III
                                    --------

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Information required by this item is set forth under the captions
"Class I Directors," "Class II Directors," and "Class III Directors" on pages 2
through 4, under the caption "Executive Officers of the Corporation" on
pages 18 and 19 and under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" on page 23 of Huntington's 1999 Proxy Statement, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Executive Compensation" on pages 7 through 14, and under the caption
"Compensation of Directors" on pages 4 and 5, of Huntington's 1999 Proxy
Statement, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12:   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Ownership of Voting Stock" on pages 5 and 6, of Huntington's 1999 Proxy
Statement, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Transactions With Directors and Executive Officers" on pages 6 and 7, and under
the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on
page 14 of Huntington's 1999 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                     Part IV
                                     -------

ITEM 14:   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

         (1) The report of independent auditors and consolidated financial
statements appearing in Item 8.

         (2) Huntington is not filing separately financial statement schedules
because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or because
the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or
the notes thereto.

         (3) The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhibit Index
on pages 58 through 60 of this Form 10-K. The management contracts and
compensation plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this Form
10-K are listed as Exhibits 10(a) through 10(n) in the Exhibit Index.



    (b) During the quarter ended December 31, 1998, Huntington filed one Current
Report on Form 8-K. The report, dated October 14, 1998, was filed under Item 7,
and concerned Huntington's results of operations for the quarter ended September
30, 1998.

    (c) The exhibits to this Form 10-K begin on page 58.

    (d) See Item 14(a)(2) above.







Signatures
- ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 19th day of
February, 1999.

                       HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
                       ----------------------------------
                                  (Registrant)

By:   /s/Frank Wobst                      By:   /s/Gerald R. Williams
   --------------------------------          -----------------------------------
      Frank Wobst                              Gerald R. Williams
      Director, Chairman and                   Executive Vice President and
      Chief Executive Officer                  Chief Financial Officer
      (Principal Executive Officer)            (Principal Financial Officer)


      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 19th day of February, 1999.

/s/Don M. Casto, III                     /s/George A. Skestos
- -------------------------------          ---------------------------------------
Don M. Casto, III                        George A. Skestos
Director                                 Director

/s/Don Conrad                            /s/Lewis R. Smoot, Sr.
- -------------------------------          ---------------------------------------
Don Conrad                               Lewis R. Smoot, Sr.
Director                                 Director

/s/Patricia T. Hayot                     /s/Timothy P. Smucker
- -------------------------------          ---------------------------------------
Patricia T. Hayot                        Timothy P. Smucker
Director                                 Director

/s/Wm. J. Lhota                          /s/William J. Williams
- -------------------------------          ---------------------------------------
Wm. J. Lhota                             William J. Williams
Director                                 Director

/s/Robert H. Schottenstein
- -------------------------------         
Robert H. Schottenstein
Director






Exhibit Index
- -------------

  3(i)(a).     Articles of Restatement of Charter, Articles of Amendment to
                  Articles of Restatement of Charter, and Articles Supplementary
                  -- previously filed as Exhibit 3(i) to Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

    (i)(b).    Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of Charter --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 3(i)(b) to Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

    (i)(c).    Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of Charter --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 3(i)(c) to Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

    (ii).      Amended and Restated Bylaws.

  4(a).        Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders -- reference
                  is made to Articles Fifth, Eighth, and Tenth of Articles of
                  Restatement of Charter, as amended and supplemented.
                  Instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
                  will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
                  upon request.

    (b).       Rights Plan, dated February 22, 1990, between Huntington
                  Bancshares Incorporated and The Huntington National Bank (as
                  successor to The Huntington Trust Company, National
                  Association) -- previously filed as Exhibit 1 to Registration
                  Statement on Form 8-A, filed with the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission on February 22, 1990, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

    (c).       Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement, dated August 16, 1995, 
                  previously filed as Exhibit 4(b) to Form 8-K, dated August 16,
                  1995, and incorporated herein by reference.

     10.       Material contracts:

    (a).       Employment Agreement, dated April 25, 1996, between  Huntington
                  Bancshares Incorporated and Frank Wobst -- previously filed as
                  Exhibit 10(a) to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  quarterly period ended June 30, 1996, and incorporated herein
                  by reference.

    (b).       Form of Tier I Executive Agreement for certain executive 
                  officers.

    (c).       Form of Tier II Executive Agreement for certain executive 
                  officers.

    (d).       Schedule identifying material details of Executive Agreements,
                  substantially similar to Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c).




    (e).       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Amended and Restated 
                  Incentive Compensation Plan -- previously filed as
                  Exhibit 10(i) to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  quarterly period ended March 31, 1995,  and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

    (f).       Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as 
                  amended and effective for performance cycles beginning on or
                  after January 1, 1996 -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(j)(2)
                  to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1996, and incorporated herein by reference.  

    (g)(1).    Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan with First and Second 
                  Amendments -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

    (g)(2).    Third Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 10(k)(2) to Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

    (h).       Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Directors -- reference
                  is made to Exhibit 4(a) of Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-10546,
                  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January
                  28, 1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (i)(1).    1983 Stock Option Plan -- reference is made to Exhibit 4A of
                   Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 2-89672,
                   filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February
                   27, 1984, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (i)(2).    1983 Stock Option Plan -- Second Amendment -- previously filed as
                   Exhibit 10(j)(2) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1987, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

    (i)(3).    1983 Stock Option Plan -- Third Amendment -- previously filed as
                   Exhibit 10(j)(3) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1987, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

    (i)(4).    1983 Stock Option Plan -- Fourth Amendment -- previously filed as
                   Exhibit (m)(4) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1993, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

    (i)(5).    1983 Stock Option Plan -- Fifth Amendment -- previously filed as
                   Exhibit (m)(5) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                   ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                   reference.

    (j)(1).    1990 Stock Option Plan -- reference is made to Exhibit 4(a) of
                   Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
                   33-37373, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                   on October 18, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (j)(2).    First Amendment to Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 1990 Stock
                   Option Plan -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(q)(2) to Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, and
                   incorporated herein by reference.



    (j)(3).    Second Amendment to Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 1990 Stock
                  Option Plan -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(n)(3) to Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

    (j)(4).    Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Option Plan -- previously filed 
                  as Exhibit 10(r) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (k)(1).    The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and Tax Savings Plan
                  and Trust (as amended and restated as of February 9, 1990) --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement on
                  Form S-8, Registration No. 33-44208, filed with the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission on November 26, 1991, and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

    (k)(2).    First Amendment to The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and
                  Tax Savings Plan and Trust Plan -- previously filed as Exhibit
                  10(o)(2) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (l).       Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Huntington Bancshares
                  Incorporated Directors -- reference is made to Exhibit 4(a) of
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-41774,
                  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 19,
                  1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

    (m).       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Retirement Plan For Outside 
                  Directors, previously filed as Exhibit 10(t) to Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

    (n).       Huntington Supplemental Retirement Income Plan -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit 10(s) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   21.         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

   23(a).      Consent of Ernst & Young, LLP, Independent Auditors.

   27.         Financial Data Schedule.





