
10-K
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

         (Mark One)

         [X]      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                  Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       or

         [_]      Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                  Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file Number 0-2525

                       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                       ----------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Maryland                            31-0724920
                 ---------                           ----------
      (State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

      Huntington Center, 41 S. High Street, Columbus, OH            43287
      --------------------------------------------------            -----
               (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (614) 480-8300
                                                           --------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                        Common Stock - Without Par Value
                        --------------------------------
                                (Title of class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. [X] Yes [ ] No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of December 31, 1999, was $4,879,362,708. As of January 31, 2000,
227,992,927 shares of common stock without par value were outstanding.


Documents Incorporated By Reference
- -----------------------------------

     Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information
from the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual
Shareholders' Meeting.






                       HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED

                                      INDEX






                       Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                       ----------------------------------

                                     Part I
                                     ------


ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

     Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington), incorporated in Maryland
in 1966, is a multi-state bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio.
Its subsidiaries conduct a full-service commercial and consumer banking
business, engage in mortgage banking, lease financing, trust services, discount
brokerage services, underwriting credit life and disability insurance, selling
other insurance products, and issuing commercial paper guaranteed by Huntington,
and providing other financial products and services. At December 31, 1999,
Huntington's subsidiaries had 182 banking offices in Ohio, 125 banking offices
in Michigan, 137 banking offices in Florida, 36 banking offices in West
Virginia, 23 banking offices in Indiana, 12 banking offices in Kentucky, and one
foreign office in the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong, respectively. The Huntington
Mortgage Company (a wholly owned subsidiary) has loan origination offices
throughout the Midwest and East Coast. Foreign banking activities, in total or
with any individual country, are not significant to the operations of
Huntington. At December 31, 1999, Huntington and its subsidiaries had 9,516
full-time equivalent employees.
     A brief discussion of Huntington's lines of business can be found in its
Management's Discussion and Analysis on page 11 of this report and the financial
statement results can be found in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 51.
     Competition in the form of price and service from other banks and financial
companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, and
brokerage firms is intense in most of the markets served by Huntington and its
subsidiaries. Mergers between and the expansion of financial institutions both
within and outside Ohio have provided significant competitive pressure in major
markets. Since 1995, when federal interstate banking legislation became
effective that made it permissible for bank holding companies in any state to
acquire banks in any other state, actual or potential competition in each of
Huntington's markets has been intensified. The same federal legislation permits
further competition through interstate branching, subject to certain limitations
by individual states. Internet banking, offered both by established traditional
institutions and by start-up Internet-only banks, constitutes another
significant form of competitive pressure on Huntington's business. Finally,
financial services reform legislation enacted in November 1999 (see
"Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999" below) eliminates the long-standing
Glass-Steagall Act restrictions on securities activities of bank holding
companies and banks. The new legislation permits bank holding companies that
elect to become financial holding companies to engage in defined securities and
insurance activities as well as to affiliate with securities and insurance
firms. The same legislation allows banks to have financial subsidiaries that may
engage in certain activities not otherwise permissible for banks.
     In January 1999, Huntington consummated the merger of The Huntington State
Bank, its state bank subsidiary in Ohio, into The Huntington National Bank, an
interstate national bank. As a result, The Huntington National Bank is
Huntington's sole bank subsidiary.

REGULATORY MATTERS

GENERAL

     As a registered bank holding company, Huntington is subject to the
supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board"). Huntington is required to file with the Federal
Reserve Board reports and other information regarding its business operations
and the business operations of its subsidiaries. It is also subject to
examination by the Federal Reserve Board and is required to obtain Federal
Reserve Board approval prior to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or
control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, it would own
or control more than 5% of the voting stock of such bank. In addition, pursuant
to federal law and regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board,
Huntington may only engage in, or own or control companies that engage in,
activities deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to
banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Under legislation effective in 1996,
Huntington may, in most cases, commence permissible new nonbanking business
activities de novo with only subsequent notice to the Federal Reserve Board and
may acquire smaller companies that engage in permissible nonbanking activities
under an expedited procedure requiring only 12 business days notice to the
Federal Reserve Board.
     Huntington's national bank subsidiary has deposits insured by the Bank
Insurance Fund ("BIF") of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). It
is subject to supervision, examination, and regulation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). Certain deposits of Huntington's national
bank subsidiary were acquired from savings associations and are insured by the
Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF") of the FDIC.





Huntington's nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to supervision, examination,
and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and examination by applicable
federal and state banking agencies. In addition to the impact of federal and
state supervision and regulation, the bank and nonbank subsidiaries of
Huntington are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve
Board as it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in
order to influence the economy.
     To the extent that the following information describes statutory or
regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to such
statutory or regulatory provisions.

HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE

     Huntington's depository institution subsidiary is subject to affiliate
transaction restrictions under federal law which limit the transfer of funds by
the subsidiary bank to the parent and any nonbank subsidiaries of the parent,
whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset
purchases. Such transfers by a subsidiary bank to its parent corporation or to
any individual nonbank subsidiary of the parent are limited in amount to 10% of
the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus and, with respect to such parent
together with all such nonbank subsidiaries of the parent, to an aggregate of
20% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and
extensions of credit are required to be secured in specified amounts. In
addition, all affiliate transactions must be conducted on terms and under
circumstances that are substantially the same as such transactions with
unaffiliated entities. Under applicable regulations, at December 31, 1999,
approximately $217.5 million was available for loans to Huntington from its
subsidiary bank.
     The Federal Reserve Board has a policy to the effect that a bank holding
company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support each such
subsidiary bank. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Federal Reserve
Board may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a
troubled subsidiary bank, and may charge the bank holding company with engaging
in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a
subsidiary bank. This capital injection may be required at times when Huntington
may not have the resources to provide it. Any loans by a holding company to its
subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain
other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. Moreover, in the event of a bank
holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by such holding company to a
federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will
be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.
     Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro rata assessment of
shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become impaired, by
losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank's capital
stock. This statute also provides for the enforcement of any such pro rata
assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of
capital stock by sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock of any
assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment. Huntington, as the sole
shareholder of its subsidiary bank, is subject to such provisions. Moreover, the
claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative
expenses and the claims of holders of deposit liabilities of such an institution
are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an
institution, including the holders of the institution's note obligations, in the
event of a liquidation or other resolution of such institution. As a result of
such legislation, claims of a receiver for administrative expenses and claims of
holders of deposit liabilities of Huntington's depository subsidiary (including
the FDIC, as the subrogee of such holders) would receive priority over the
holders of notes and other senior debt of such subsidiary in the event of a
liquidation or other resolution and over the interests of Huntington as sole
shareholder of its subsidiary.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     Dividends from its subsidiary bank are a significant source of funds for
payment of dividends to Huntington's shareholders. In the year ended December
31, 1999, Huntington declared cash dividends to its shareholders of
approximately $175.8 million. There are, however, statutory limits on the amount
of dividends that Huntington's depository institution subsidiary can pay to
Huntington without regulatory approval.
     Huntington's subsidiary bank may not, without prior regulatory approval,
pay a dividend in an amount greater than such bank's undivided profits. In
addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment of a
dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the bank
in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year
combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. Under these
provisions and in accordance with the above-described formula, Huntington's
subsidiary bank could, without regulatory approval, declare dividends to
Huntington in 2000 of approximately $317.0 million plus an additional amount
equal to its net profits during 2000.




     If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its
jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound
practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include
the payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and hearing,
that such bank cease and desist from such practice. The Federal Reserve Board
and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and
bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current
operating earnings.

FDIC INSURANCE

     Under current FDIC practices, Huntington's bank subsidiary will not be
required to pay deposit insurance premiums during 2000. However, the bank
subsidiary will be required to make payments for the servicing of obligations of
the Financing Corporation ("FICO") issued in connection with the resolution of
savings and loan associations, so long as such obligations remain outstanding.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

     The Federal Reserve Board has issued risk-based capital ratio and leverage
ratio guidelines for bank holding companies such as Huntington. The risk-based
capital ratio guidelines establish a systematic analytical framework that makes
regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles
among banking organizations, takes off-balance sheet exposures into explicit
account in assessing capital adequacy, and minimizes disincentives to holding
liquid, low-risk assets. Under the guidelines and related policies, bank holding
companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset ratio
test and a leverage ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is
determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet commitments into
four weighted categories, with higher weighting being assigned to categories
perceived as representing greater risk. A bank holding company's capital (as
described below) is then divided by total risk weighted assets to yield the
risk-based ratio. The leverage ratio is determined by relating core capital (as
described below) to total assets adjusted as specified in the guidelines.
Huntington's subsidiary bank is subject to substantially similar capital
requirements.
     Generally, under the applicable guidelines, a financial institution's
capital is divided into two tiers. Institutions that must incorporate market
risk exposure into their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third
tier of capital in the form of restricted short-term subordinated debt. "Tier
1", or core capital, includes common equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock (excluding auction rate issues), and minority interests in equity accounts
of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and, with certain limited
exceptions, all other intangible assets. Bank holding companies, however, may
include cumulative preferred stock in their Tier 1 capital, up to a limit of 25%
of such Tier 1 capital. "Tier 2", or supplementary capital, includes, among
other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred stock, hybrid capital
instruments, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and
the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations. "Total
capital" is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
     The Federal Reserve Board and the other federal banking regulators require
that all intangible assets, with certain limited exceptions, be deducted from
Tier 1 capital. Under the Federal Reserve Board's rules the only types of
intangible assets that may be included in (i.e., not deducted from) a bank
holding company's capital are originated or purchased mortgage servicing rights
("MSRs"), non-mortgage servicing assets ("NMSAs"), and purchased credit card
relationships ("PCCRs"), provided that, in the aggregate, the total amount of
MSRs, NMSAs, and PCCRs included in capital does not exceed 100% of Tier 1
capital. NMSAs and PCCRs are subject to a separate aggregate sublimit of 25% of
Tier 1 capital. The amount of MSRs, NMSAs, and PCCRs that a bank holding company
may include in its capital is limited to the lesser of (a) 90% of such assets'
fair market value (as determined under the guidelines), or (b) 100% of such
assets' book value, each determined quarterly. Identifiable intangible assets
(i.e., intangible assets other than goodwill) other than MSRs, NMSAs, and PCCRs,
including core deposit intangibles, acquired on or before February 19, 1992 (the
date the Federal Reserve Board issued its original proposal for public comment),
generally will not be deducted from capital for supervisory purposes, although
they will continue to be deducted for purposes of evaluating applications filed
by bank holding companies.
     Under the risk-based guidelines, financial institutions are required to
maintain a risk-based ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of 8%, of
which 4% must be Tier 1 capital. The appropriate regulatory authority may set
higher capital requirements when an institution's circumstances warrant.
     Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are required to
maintain a leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, as specified
in the guidelines) of at least 3%. The 3% minimum ratio is applicable only to
financial institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent
asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure, and the highest
regulatory rating. Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are
required to maintain a leverage ratio that exceeds 3% by a cushion of at least
100 to 200 basis points.
     The guidelines also provide that financial institutions experiencing
internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong
capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory level.
Furthermore, the





Federal Reserve Board's guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will
continue to consider a "tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio" in evaluating proposals
for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio
of an institution's Tier 1 capital, less all intangibles, to total assets, less
all intangibles.
     Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the financial
institution to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal
regulatory authorities, including limitations on the ability to pay dividends,
the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase
capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, as well as to the
measures described below under "Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991" as applicable to undercapitalized institutions.
     As of December 31, 1999, the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, total
risk-based capital ratio, and Tier 1 leverage ratio for Huntington were as
follows:



     As of December 31, 1999, Huntington's bank subsidiary also had capital in
excess of the minimum requirements. The risk-based capital standards of the
Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the
banking agencies of a bank's capital adequacy will include an assessment of the
exposure to declines in the economic value of the bank's capital due to changes
in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on
interest rate risk describing prudent methods for monitoring such risk that rely
principally on internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk
management activities by senior management.

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1991

     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA") substantially revised the bank regulatory and funding provisions of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and made revisions to several other federal
banking statutes. Among other things, FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory
authorities to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes,
FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized, adequately capitalized,
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically
undercapitalized.
     The federal banking regulatory agencies have adopted regulations to
implement the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. Among other things,
the regulations define the relevant capital measures for the five capital
categories. An institution is deemed to be "well capitalized" if it has a total
risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of
6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject
to a regulatory order, agreement, or directive to meet and maintain a specific
capital level for any capital measure. An institution is deemed to be
"adequately capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or
greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater, and, generally, a
Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% or greater and the institution does not meet the
definition of a "well capitalized" institution. An institution that does not
meet one or more of the "adequately capitalized" tests is deemed to be
"undercapitalized". If the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that
is less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3%, or a
Tier 1 leverage ratio that is less than 3%, it is deemed to be "significantly
undercapitalized". Finally, an institution is deemed to be "critically
undercapitalized" if it has a ratio of tangible equity (as defined in the
regulations) to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%.
     FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of a cash dividend) or paying any management fee
to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be
undercapitalized. Undercapitalized institutions are subject to growth
limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. If any
depository institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a
capital restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a
limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a condition of approval
of such plan by the appropriate federal banking agency. If an undercapitalized
institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is
significantly undercapitalized. Significantly undercapitalized institutions may
be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to
sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to
reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent
banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions may not, beginning 60 days after
becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest
on their subordinated debt. In addition, critically undercapitalized
institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator within 90
days of becoming critically undercapitalized.




     Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well capitalized is
generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest
rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Huntington
expects that the FDIC's brokered deposit rule will not adversely affect the
ability of its depository institution subsidiaries to accept brokered deposits.
Under the regulatory definition of brokered deposits, Huntington's depository
subsidiary had $530.0 million of brokered deposits at December 31, 1999.
     FDICIA, as amended, directs that each federal banking regulatory agency
prescribe standards, by regulation or guideline, for depository institutions
relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan
documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth,
compensation, asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation. The Federal Reserve
Board and other federal banking agencies have adopted a regulation in the form
of guidelines covering most of these items. Huntington believes that the
regulation and guidelines will not have a material effect on the operations of
its depository institution subsidiaries.

INTERSTATE BRANCHING AND CONSOLIDATIONS

     The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
("Riegle-Neal") provides for nationwide interstate banking and branching. Under
the law, interstate acquisitions of banks or bank holding companies in any state
by bank holding companies in any other state became permissible in 1995, and
interstate branching and consolidations of existing bank subsidiaries in
different states became permissible in 1997. On June 30, 1997, Huntington
availed itself of the interstate branching and consolidation authority by
merging into its lead national bank subsidiary all of its other bank
subsidiaries, except The Huntington State Bank, which was subsequently merged
into Huntington's lead national bank subsidiary on January 29, 1999. As of that
date, The Huntington National Bank was Huntington's sole bank subsidiary. Future
bank acquisitions, if any, in states where Huntington formerly had a separate
bank subsidiary, will not require compliance with Riegle-Neal entry provisions.

GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT OF 1999

     The United States Congress in 1999 enacted major financial services
modernization legislation, known as the "Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999"
("GLBA"), which was signed into law on November 12, 1999. Under GLBA, banks are
no longer prohibited by the Glass-Steagall Act from associating with, or having
management interlocks with, a business organization engaged principally in
securities activities. By qualifying as a new entity known as a "financial
holding company", a bank holding company may acquire new powers not otherwise
available to it. In order to qualify, a bank holding company's depository
subsidiaries must all be both well capitalized and well managed, and must be
meeting their Community Reinvestment Act obligations. The bank holding company
must also declare its intention to become a financial holding company to the
Federal Reserve Board and certify that its depository subsidiaries meet the
capitalization and management requirements. The repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act
and the availability of new powers both are effective on and after March 11,
2000.
     Financial holding company powers relate to "financial activities" that are
determined by the Federal Reserve Board, in coordination with the Secretary of
the Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to an activity that is
financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity (provided that the
complementary activity does not pose a safety and soundness risk). The statute
itself defines certain activities as financial in nature, including but not
limited to underwriting insurance or annuities; providing financial or
investment advice; underwriting, dealing in, or making markets in securities;
merchant banking, subject to significant limitations; insurance portfolio
investing, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously
found by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking. A company
that is predominantly engaged in financial activities but is not a bank holding
company may, if it becomes a bank holding company and thereby also a financial
holding company, continue to engage in or retain a subsidiary engaging in those
nonfinancial activities the company or its subsidiary was lawfully engaged in on
September 30, 1999, but it may not expand those grandfathered activities or
initiate new nonfinancial activities. Such grandfathering is available for up to
fifteen years.
     National and state banks are permitted under GLBA (subject to capital,
management, size, debt rating, and Community Reinvestment Act qualification
factors) to have "financial subsidiaries" that are permitted to engage in
financial activities not otherwise permissible. However, unlike financial
holding companies, financial subsidiaries may not engage in insurance or annuity
underwriting; developing or investing in real estate; merchant banking (for at
least five years); or insurance portfolio investing.
     Other provisions of GLBA establish a system of functional regulation for
financial holding companies and banks involving the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and state securities and
insurance regulators; deal with bank insurance sales and title insurance
activities in relation to state insurance regulation; prescribe consumer
protection standards for insurance sales; and establish minimum federal
standards of privacy to protect the confidentiality of the personal financial
information of consumers and regulate its use by financial institutions.




     In January, 2000, the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency issued, respectively, an interim and a proposed rule
governing the application process for becoming a financial holding company or a
financial subsidiary. Additional regulations are expected from these agencies
during the year 2000 for the implementation of GLBA.

GUIDE 3 INFORMATION

      Information required by Industry Guide 3 relating to statistical
disclosure by bank holding companies is set forth in Items 7 and 8.

ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES

     The headquarters of Huntington and its lead subsidiary, The Huntington
National Bank, are located in the Huntington Center, a thirty-seven story office
building located in Columbus, Ohio. Of the building's total office space
available, Huntington leases approximately 39 percent. The lease term expires in
2015, with nine five-year renewal options for up to 45 years but with no
purchase option. The Huntington National Bank has an equity interest in the
entity that owns the building. Huntington's other major properties consist of a
thirteen-story and a twelve-story office building, both of which are located
adjacent to the Huntington Center; a twenty-one story office building, known as
the Huntington Building, located in Cleveland, Ohio; an eighteen-story office
building in Charleston, West Virginia; a three-story office building located in
Holland, Michigan; an office building in Lakeland, Florida; an eleven-story
office building in Sarasota, Florida; The Huntington Mortgage Company's
building, located in the greater Columbus area; an office complex located in
Troy, Michigan; and two data processing and operations centers located in Ohio.
Of these properties, Huntington owns the thirteen-story and twelve-story office
buildings. All of the other major properties are held under long-term leases.
Additionally, Huntington owns and occupies a 460,000 square foot Business
Service Center which serves as Huntington's primary Operations and Data Center.
     In 1998, Huntington entered into a sale/leaseback agreement that included
the sale of 59 properties. The transaction included a mix of branch banking
offices, regional offices, and operational facilities, including certain
properties described above, which Huntington will continue to operate under a
long-term lease.

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Information required by this item is set forth in Item 8 in Note 15 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 46.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not Applicable.




                                     Part II
                                     -------

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

     The common stock of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is traded on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol "HBAN". The stock is listed as "HuntgBcshr"
or "HuntBanc" in most newspapers. As of January 31, 2000, Huntington had 33,539
shareholders of record.
     Information regarding the high and low sale prices of Huntington Common
Stock and cash dividends declared on such shares, as required by this item, is
set forth in a table entitled "Market Prices, Key Ratios and Statistics
(Quarterly Data)" on page 26 in Item 7. Information regarding restrictions on
dividends, as required by this item, is set forth in Item 1 "Business-Regulatory
Matters-Dividend Restrictions" above and in Item 8 in Notes 7 and 19 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 39 and 48, respectively.


ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 in Table 1 on page
9.





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE 1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



(1)  Excludes special charges, including merger costs, and related taxes.
(2)  Adjusted for stock splits and stock dividends, as applicable.
(3)  Presented on a fully tax equivalent basis assuming a 35% tax rate.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


INTRODUCTION

     Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) is a multi-state bank
holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Its subsidiaries are engaged in
full-service commercial and consumer banking, mortgage banking, lease financing,
trust services, discount brokerage services, underwriting credit life and
disability insurance, issuing commercial paper guaranteed by Huntington, and
selling other insurance and financial products and services. Huntington's
subsidiaries operate domestically in offices located in Florida, Georgia,
Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, South
Carolina, and West Virginia. Huntington has foreign offices in the Cayman
Islands and Hong Kong.
     In 1995, Congress passed the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act to
encourage corporations to provide investors with information about anticipated
future financial performance, goals, and strategies. The Act provides a safe
harbor for such disclosure, or in other words, protection from unwarranted
litigation if actual results are not the same as management's expectations. This
Financial Supplement to the Proxy, including Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains
forward-looking statements including certain plans, expectations, goals, and
projections that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially from those contained in or implied by
Huntington's statements due to a variety of factors including:
       -  changes in economic conditions and movements in interest rates;
       -  competitive pressures on product pricing and services;
       -  success and timing of business strategies and successful integration
          of acquired businesses;
       -  the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms;
          and,
       -  extended disruption of vital infrastructure.
     The management of Huntington encourages readers of this Financial
Supplement to the Proxy to understand forward-looking statements to be strategic
objectives rather than absolute targets of future performance. The following
discussion and analysis of the financial performance of Huntington for the year
should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes and other
information contained in this document.

OVERVIEW

     Huntington reported net income of $422.1 million for 1999, compared with
$301.8 million and $292.7 million for 1998 and 1997, respectively. For the same
periods, diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $1.82, $1.29 and $1.25. All of
the following financial information is reported on an operating basis, except
where indicated. Operating results exclude special charges incurred in 1998
associated with several strategic actions that enhanced profitability and the
merger-related expenses incurred in 1997 in connection with the acquisition of
First Michigan Bank Corporation (First Michigan). Huntington's operating
earnings for 1999 were $422.1 million, compared with $362.1 million in 1998 and
$338.9 million in 1997. Diluted EPS was $1.82, compared with $1.54 in 1998 and
$1.45 in 1997, an increase of 18.2% and 25.5%, respectively. Per share amounts
for all prior periods have been restated to reflect the ten-percent stock
dividend distributed to shareholders in July 1999.
     Return on average equity (ROE) was 19.66% for 1999, versus 17.54% and
17.88% for each of the two preceding years. Return on average assets (ROA) was
1.47% for the current year and 1.35% in each of the two previous years. Cash
basis results, presented in the table below, exclude amortization of goodwill
and other intangibles (net of income taxes) from net income and related asset
amounts from total assets and shareholders' equity:

                              1999      1998      1997
                              ----      ----      ----
                    EPS     $ 1.94    $ 1.64    $ 1.15
                    ROE      30.82%    24.35%    21.36%
                    ROA       1.61%     1.45%     1.41%

     Total assets were $29.0 billion at December 31, 1999, up from $28.3 billion
from year-end 1998. In October of 1999, Huntington completed the sale of its
credit card portfolio to The Chase Manhattan Bank (Chase). Approximately $541
million in receivables were sold, resulting in a gain of $108.5 million. This
transaction was part of Huntington's strategy to exit specific business lines
and reinvest in businesses with higher growth potential. Under the terms of the
sale agreement, Huntington will work together with Chase to develop marketing
programs, sell the product through its Direct Bank and banking offices, and
receive origination fees along with a share of the revenue generated from new
receivables.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Note: There are no loans outstanding which would be considered a concentration
      of lending in any particular industry or group of industries.




Note: Loan balances above are net of unearned income and there are no loans
      outstanding which would be a concentration of lending in any particular
      industry or group of industries.


     Adjusted for the impact of the credit card sale, average total loans grew
9.5% from 1998. Commercial loans grew by 8.7% while consumer loans grew by
11.4%, led by strong volumes in vehicle leasing and home equity loans. Average
loans secured by real estate, which include residential mortgage lending,
increased by 6.6% compared to 1998.
     Core deposits represent Huntington's most significant source of funding.
When combined with other core funding sources, core deposits provide
approximately 71% of Huntington's funding needs. Core deposits were $16.9
billion, down $.7 billion, or 4.3%, from the prior year-end. This decline was
attributable to the runoff of retail certificates of deposit reinvested by
customers into alternative investments such as mutual funds and annuities,
including those sold by Huntington. Excluding time deposits, average core
deposits grew 11.7% with particular strength in savings and transaction account
products. Huntington continued to raise short-term wholesale monies and issue
unsecured medium-term notes as sources of additional funding.

LINES OF BUSINESS

     Huntington views its operations as five distinct segments. Retail Banking,
Corporate Banking, Dealer Sales, and the Private Financial Group are the
company's major business lines. The fifth segment includes Huntington's Treasury
function and other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. Line
of business results are determined based upon Huntington's business
profitability reporting system which assigns balance sheet and income statement
items to each of the business segments. This process is designed around
Huntington's organizational and management structure and, accordingly, the
results are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by
other financial institutions. Below is a brief description of each line of
business and a discussion of the business segment results, which can be found in
Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RETAIL BANKING
     Retail Banking provides products and services to retail and business
banking customers. This business unit's products include home equity loans,
first mortgage loans, installment loans, small business loans, credit cards,
deposit products, as well as investment and insurance services. These products
and services are offered through Huntington's traditional banking network,
in-store branches, Direct Bank, and Web Bank.
     Retail Banking net income was $177.8 million for 1999 versus $129.5 million
for 1998, representing a 37.3% increase. A portion of the growth came from the
full year benefit of Huntington's acquisition of 60 banking offices in Florida
in June 1998. Excluding this impact, the Retail Banking business line grew
28.5%. Non-interest income for the year increased 15.0% over the prior year with
strength in service charges, brokerage and insurance income, and electronic
banking income. Mortgage banking revenues were off 6.3% as higher market rates
curtailed new loan production. Non-interest expenses were relatively flat for
the year as expense containment offset volume-related expense increases. This
segment contributed 42% of Huntington's 1999 net income and comprised 31% of its
total loan portfolio.

CORPORATE BANKING
     Customers in this segment represent the middle-market and large corporate
banking relationships which use a variety of banking products and services
including, but not limited to, commercial loans, asset based financing,
international trade, and cash management. Huntington's capital markets division
also provides alternative financing solutions for larger business clients,
including privately placed debt, syndicated commercial lending, and the sale of
interest rate protection products.
     Corporate Banking posted net income of $126.0 million for the year, a 11.6%
increase over 1998. The increase was the result of solid loan and deposit
growth, despite the impact of certain loan paydowns on significant larger
credits during the year, combined with lower charge-offs on portfolio loans.
This segment contributed 30% of Huntington's annual earnings and represented 35%
of the total loan portfolio.

DEALER SALES
     Dealer Sales product offerings pertain to the automobile lending sector and
include floor plan financing, as well as indirect consumer loans and leases.
Indirect consumer loans and leases comprise the vast majority of the business
and involve the financing of vehicles purchased by individuals through
dealerships.
     Excluding the $37.8 million, net of tax, lease residual valuation
adjustment, net income totaled $71.0 million for 1999 and $55.1 million for
1998. Robust vehicle leasing volumes contributed to a 29% increase in net
income. Tighter expense control helped to mitigate weakness in non-interest
income, which included losses in 1999 realized from the disposition of leased
vehicles. This business line totaled 17% of Huntington's net income in the
recent twelve months and 31% of its outstanding loans.

PRIVATE FINANCIAL GROUP
     Huntington's Private Financial Group (PFG) provides an array of products
and services designed to meet the needs of Huntington's higher wealth banking
customers. Revenue is derived through the sale of personal trust, asset
management, investment advisory, insurance, and deposit and loan products and
services. PFG provides customers with "one-stop shopping" for all their
financial needs.
     PFG achieved net income for the year just ended of $23.5 million, an
increase from $22.2 million in 1998. Net interest income for the year declined
8.0% due to lower loan volumes. Non-interest income increased for the same
period 10.9% primarily due to a 15.6% increase in service charges, a 6.2%
increase in trust revenue, and a 3.6% increase in credit card income. Direct
non-interest expenses declined 5.2% over the same period. This segment
represented 6% of Huntington's 1999 operating results and 3% of total loans at
December 31, 1999.

TREASURY/OTHER
     Huntington uses a match-funded transfer pricing system to allocate interest
income and interest expense to its business segments. This approach consolidates
the interest rate risk management of Huntington into its Treasury Group. As part
of its overall interest rate risk and liquidity management strategy, the
Treasury Group administers an investment portfolio of approximately $5 billion.
Revenue and expense associated with these activities remain within the Treasury
Group. Additionally, the Treasury/Other segment absorbs unassigned assets,
liabilities, equity, revenue, and expense that cannot be directly assigned or
allocated to one of Huntington's lines of business. Costs associated with
intangibles that have not been allocated to the major business lines are also
included in Other.
     This segment reported net income of $61.5 million for the recent year. In
comparing annual results for 1999 with 1998, the increase was attributable to
higher non-interest income from gains realized from the credit card sale to
Chase and lower non-interest expenses in almost all categories (before
amortization of intangibles and other non-




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

recurring expenses) offset by lower net interest income and securities gains.
Amortization of intangibles included a full year's impact from the Florida
branch acquisition that occurred in June 1998.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

NET INTEREST INCOME
     Huntington's net interest income was $1,041.8 million in 1999, versus
$1,021.1 million in 1998, and $1,027.2 million in 1997. The net interest margin,
on a fully tax equivalent basis, was 4.11% during the recent twelve months,
compared with 4.28% and 4.44% in the two preceding years. The margin decline is
primarily due to the funding of loan growth through more expensive wholesale
funds as loan growth outpaced core deposit growth. Interest rate swaps and other
off-balance sheet financial instruments used for asset/liability management
purposes provided benefits of $21.6 million (8 basis points), $27.3 million (11
basis points) and $6.0 million (3 basis points) in each of the recent three
years.

PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
     The provision for loan losses reflects management's evaluation of the
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses (ALL). The ALL represents management's
assessment of possible losses inherent in Huntington's loan portfolio.
Huntington allocates the ALL to each loan category based on a detailed credit
quality review performed periodically on specific commercial loans based on size
and relative risk and other relevant factors such as portfolio performance,
internal controls, and impacts from mergers and acquisitions. Loss factors are
applied on larger, commercial and industrial and commercial real estate credits
and represent management's estimate of



(1)  The change in interest rates due to both rate and volume has been allocated
     between the factors in proportion of the relationship of the absolute
     dollar amounts of the change in each.
(2)  Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the inherent loss. The portion of the allowance allocated to homogeneous
consumer loans is determined by applying projected loss ratios to various
segments of the loan portfolio giving consideration to existing economic
conditions and trends.
     Projected loss ratios incorporate factors such as trends in past due and
non-accrual amounts, recent loan loss experience, current economic conditions,
risk characteristics, and concentrations of various loan categories. Actual loss
ratios experienced in the future, however, could vary from those projected
because a loan's performance depends not only on economic factors but also other
factors unique to each customer. The diversity in size of corporate commercial
loans can be significant as well and even if the projected number of loans
deteriorate, the dollar exposure could significantly vary from estimated
amounts. Additionally, the impact on individual customers from many economic
events that have occurred may yet be unknown. Such events include high energy
prices, low automobile and home sales in selected markets. To ensure adequacy to
a higher degree of confidence, an unallocated allowance is maintained. For
analytical purposes, the allocation of the ALL is provided in Table 6. While
amounts are allocated to various portfolio segments, the total ALL, less the
portion attributable to reserves as prescribed under provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 114, is available to absorb losses from any
segment of the portfolio.
     The provision for loan losses was $88.4 million in 1999, down from $105.2
million in 1998. Two years ago, the provision totaled $107.8 million. The
decline in the current year's provision is due in large part to the credit card
sale to Chase. Net charge-offs as a percent of average total loans declined to
 .40% from .51% in 1998 and .50% in 1997. In 1999, commercial and consumer loan
losses declined 33.9% and 7.4%, respectively.



(1) Income before income taxes (excluding special charges) and the provision for
    loan losses to net loan losses.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



     At December 31, 1999, the ALL was $299.3 million, representing 1.45% of
total loans, down slightly from 1.50% a year ago and 1.46% in 1997. The ALL
covered non-performing loans 3.6 times, which approximates the prior year's
level. Additional information regarding the ALL and asset quality appears in the
"Credit Risk" section.

NON-INTEREST INCOME
     Excluding gains from securities sales and gains from the sale of credit
cards, non-interest income totaled $452.1 million in 1999, a 13.3% increase over
$398.9 million in 1998. Comparable non-interest income was $334.9 million in
1997. Significant improvements were experienced in several fee-based activities
as fee income as a percentage of total revenue increased from 28% in 1998 to 30%
in 1999. Service charges on deposit accounts increased 24% in 1999 due to
related pricing changes, growth in sales of cash management products, and an
overall higher level of transaction deposit accounts. Brokerage and insurance
income was up 42% because of higher retail investment and insurance sales
through Huntington's growing network of licensed investment and insurance
representatives combined with some customer migration from certificates of
deposit to investment products. Electronic banking fees grew nearly 28% in 1999
due to increased customer usage of Huntington's check card product and increased
Web Bank relationships.
     Securities transactions netted gains of $13 million in 1999 compared with
$29.8 million for the same twelve-month period a year ago. In 1999, Huntington
sold a portion of its investment in common stock of S1 Corporation at a gain of
$31 million. Substantially offsetting this gain were losses from the sale of
fixed-income investments, as Huntington repositioned the portfolio of securities
available for sale.

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE
     Excluding special charges and other non-recurring expenses, non-interest
expense was $815.3 million, versus $823.9 million and $751.9 million in the two
preceding years. Other non-recurring expenses totaled $96.8 million in 1999 and
included a $58.2 million valuation adjustment of vehicles underlying certain
direct financing leases. In addition, Huntington recorded costs related to the
company's "Huntington 2000+" program as well as other one-time expenses, which
included amounts paid for management consulting and other professional services
as well as $11 million for a special cash award to employees for achievement of
the program goals for 1999. "Huntington 2000+" is a collaborative effort among
all employees to evaluate processes and procedures and the way Huntington
conducts its business with a mission of maximizing efficiency through all
aspects of the organization.
     As a result of the "Huntington 2000+" program, overall non-interest
expenses declined, despite a full year of expenses related to the June 1998
Florida branch acquisition. These banking office additions, along with
depreciation expense related to Huntington's operations center, which was
occupied in the second half of 1999, and Year 2000 system upgrades drove
increases in Net occupancy and Equipment expenses. Most other expense categories
declined, representing the success of the "Huntington 2000+" program.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The efficiency ratio represents non-interest expense as a percentage of
fees and other income plus tax-equivalent net interest income and is a measure
of cost to generate a dollar of revenue. Huntington's efficiency ratio for 1999
improved to 51.76% from 55.80% in 1998.
     During the fourth quarter of 1998, Huntington recorded a $90 million
special charge related to costs for several strategic actions that enhanced
profitability, including the sale or closure of underperforming banking offices
and the termination of certain business activities. At December 31, 1999,
Huntington had substantially completed all of its strategic initiatives,
including the sale or closure of identified banking offices, discontinuation of
various business activities and the targeted reductions in the workforce. All
significant components of the charge were utilized as of December 31, 1999. See
Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding the 1998 Special Charges.
     In connection with the acquisition of First Michigan in 1997, Huntington
incurred a merger-related charge of $51 million consisting primarily of
personnel, facilities, and systems costs, as well as $12 million of professional
fees and other costs to effect the business combination. All activities related
to this charge were completed by December 31, 1998.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
     The provision for income taxes was $192.7 million in 1999, compared with
$138.4 million in 1998 and $166.5 million in 1997. Huntington's effective tax
rate approximated 31% in the recent and preceding year versus 36.3% in 1997. The
lower effective rate in 1999 and 1998 was due primarily to a higher mix of
tax-exempt income. Furthermore, during 1999, Huntington established a private
charitable foundation with an initial funding of $15 million. The private
foundation was established in order to realize significant federal income tax
benefits that are allowed under the Internal Revenue Code. The rate was higher
than normal in 1997 as a result of significant non-deductible expenses incurred
in connection with the First Michigan and other bank acquisitions.

INTEREST RATE RISK AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT

INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
     Huntington seeks to achieve consistent growth in net interest income and
net income while managing volatility arising from shifts in interest rates. The
Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO) oversees financial risk
management, establishing broad policies and specific operating limits that
govern a variety of financial risks inherent in Huntington's operations,
including interest rate, liquidity, counterparty, settlement, and market risks.
On and off-balance sheet strategies and tactics are reviewed and monitored
regularly by ALCO to ensure consistency with approved risk tolerances.
     Interest rate risk management is a dynamic process, encompassing business
flows onto the balance sheet, wholesale investment and funding, and the changing
market and business environment. Effective management of interest rate risk
begins with appropriately diversified investments and funding sources. To
accomplish its overall balance sheet objectives, Huntington regularly accesses a
variety of global markets--money, bond, futures, and options--as well as
numerous trading exchanges. In addition, dealers in over-the-counter financial
instruments provide availability of interest rate swaps as needed.
     Measurement and monitoring of interest rate risk is an ongoing process. A
key element in this process is Huntington's estimation of the amount that net
interest income will change over a twelve to twenty-four month period given a
directional shift in interest rates. The income simulation model used by
Huntington captures all assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet financial
instruments, accounting for significant variables that are believed to be
affected by interest rates. These include prepayment speeds on mortgages and
consumer installment loans, cash flows of loans and deposits, principal
amortization on revolving credit instruments, and




Note: Weighted average yields were calculated on the basis of amortized cost and
have been adjusted to a fully tax equivalent basis, assuming a 35% tax rate.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

balance sheet growth assumptions. The model also captures embedded options, e.g.
interest rate caps/floors or call options, and accounts for changes in rate
relationships, as various rate indices lead or lag changes in market rates.
While these assumptions are inherently uncertain, management assigns
probabilities and, therefore, believes at any point in time that the model
provides a reasonably accurate estimate of Huntington's interest rate risk
exposure. Management reporting of this information is regularly shared with the
Board of Directors.
     At December 31, 1999, the results of Huntington's interest sensitivity
analysis indicated that net interest income would be expected to decrease by
approximately 2.2% if rates rose 100 basis points and would drop an estimated
4.7% in the event of a 200 basis point increase. If rates declined 100 and 200
basis points, Huntington would benefit 2.2% and 4.4%, respectively.




At December 31, 1999, Huntington had no concentrations of securities by a single
issuer in excess of 10% of shareholders' equity.

(1)Weighted average yields were calculated on the basis of amortized cost.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Active interest rate risk management necessitates the use of various types
of off-balance sheet financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. Risk
that is created by different indices on products, by unequal terms to maturity
of assets and liabilities, and by products that are appealing to customers but
incompatible with current risk limits can be eliminated or decreased in a cost
efficient manner by utilizing interest rate swaps. Often, the swap strategy has
enabled Huntington to lower the overall cost of raising wholesale funds.
Similarly, financial futures, interest rate caps and floors, options, and
forward rate agreements are used to control financial risk effectively.
Off-balance sheet instruments are often preferable to similar cash instruments
because, though performing identically, they require less capital while
preserving access to the marketplace.
     Table 9 below illustrates the approximate market values, estimated
maturities and weighted average rates of the interest rate swaps used by
Huntington in its interest rate risk management program at December 31, 1999. As
is the case with cash securities, the market value of interest rate swaps is
largely a function of the financial market's expectations regarding the future
direction of interest rates. Accordingly, current market values are not
necessarily indicative of the future impact of the swaps on net interest income.
This will depend, in large part, on the shape of the yield curve as well as
interest rate levels. With respect to the variable rate information presented in
Table 9, management made no assumptions regarding future changes in interest
rates.
     The pay rates on Huntington's receive-fixed swaps vary based on movements
in the applicable London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Receive-fixed asset
conversion swaps and receive-fixed liability conversion swaps with notional
values of $850 million and $100 million, respectively, have embedded written
LIBOR-based call options. Basis swaps are contracts that provide for both
parties to receive interest payments according to different rate indices and are
used to protect against changes in spreads between market rates.
     The contractual amount of interest payments to be exchanged are based on
the notional values of the swap portfolio. These notional values do not
represent direct credit exposures. At December 31, 1999, Huntington's credit
risk from interest rate swaps used for asset/liability management purposes was
$55.4 million, which represents the sum of the aggregate fair value of positions
that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued interest
receivable due from counterparties. In order to minimize the risk that a swap
counterparty will not satisfy its interest payment obligation under the terms of
the contract, Huntington performs credit reviews on all counterparties,
restricts the number of counterparties used to a select group of high quality
institutions, obtains collateral, and enters into formal netting arrangements.
Huntington has never experienced any past due amounts from a swap counterparty
and does not anticipate nonperformance in the future by any such counterparties.
     The total notional amount of off-balance sheet instruments used by
Huntington on behalf of customers (for which the related interest rate risk is
offset by third party contracts) was $1 billion at December 31, 1999. The credit
exposure from these contracts is not material and furthermore, these separate
activities, which are accounted for at fair value, are not a significant part of
Huntington's operations. Accordingly, they have been excluded from the above
discussion of off-balance sheet financial instruments and the related table.






                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT

     Liquidity management is also a significant responsibility of ALCO. The
objective of ALCO in this regard is to maintain an optimum balance of maturities
among Huntington's assets and liabilities such that sufficient cash, or access
to cash, is available at all times to meet the needs of borrowers, depositors,
and creditors, as well as to fund corporate expansion and other activities.
     A chief source of Huntington's liquidity is derived from the large retail
deposit base accessible by its network of geographically dispersed banking
offices. This core funding is supplemented by Huntington's demonstrated ability
to raise funds in capital markets and to access funds nationwide. The bank
subsidiary's $6 billion domestic bank note and $2 billion European bank note
programs are significant sources of wholesale funding. Under these programs,
unsecured senior and subordinated notes are issuable with maturities ranging
from one month to thirty years. A similar $750 million note program exists at
the parent holding company, the proceeds from which are used from time to time
to fund certain non-banking activities, finance acquisitions, repurchase
Huntington's common stock, or for other general corporate purposes. At December
31, 1999, approximately $4 billion of notes were available under these programs
to fund Huntington's future activities. Huntington also has $300 million of
capital securities outstanding through its subsidiaries, Huntington Capital I
and II. A $200 million line of credit is also available to the parent holding
company to support commercial paper borrowings and other short-term working
capital needs.

TABLE 10
- -------------------------------------------------------------
MATURITY OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OF
$100,000 OR MORE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------
(in thousands of dollars)
- -------------------------------------------------------------

Three months or less                             $   933,846
Over three through six months                        505,041
Over six through twelve months                       318,860
Over twelve months                                   272,804
                                              ---------------
     Total                                       $ 2,030,551
                                              ===============

      While liability sources are many, significant liquidity is also available
from Huntington's investment and loan portfolios. ALCO regularly monitors the
overall liquidity position of the business and ensures that various alternative
strategies exist to cover unanticipated events. At the end of the recent year,
sufficient liquidity was available to meet estimated short-term and long-term
funding needs.



CREDIT RISK

     Credit risk represents the probability that a customer or counterparty may
not perform in accordance with contractual terms. Credit risk is inherent in the
financial services business and results from extending credit to customers,
purchasing mortgage-backed securities and entering into off-balance sheet
financial derivative instruments.
     Huntington's exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of
consistent underwriting standards that emphasize "in-market" lending. Credit
personnel are integrally involved in the origination and underwriting process to
ensure adherence to risk policies and underwriting standards. Huntington also
manages credit risk through avoiding highly leveraged transactions, diversifying
to avoid excessive industry or other concentrations, selling participations to
third parties, and requiring collateral. The credit administration function
employs extensive risk management techniques, including forecasting, to ensure
that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified.
These procedures provide executive management with the information necessary to
implement policy adjustments where necessary, and take corrective actions on a
proactive basis.
     Non-performing assets consist of loans that are no longer accruing
interest, loans that have been renegotiated based upon financial difficulties of
the borrower, and real estate acquired through foreclosure. Generally,




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

commercial and real estate loans are placed on non-accrual status and stop
accruing interest when collection of principal or interest is in doubt or when
the loan is 90 days past due. When interest accruals are suspended, accrued
interest income is reversed with current year accruals charged to earnings and
prior year amounts generally charged off as a credit loss. Consumer loans are
not placed on non-accrual status; rather they are charged off in accordance with
regulatory statutes, which is generally no more than 120 days. A charge off may
be delayed in circumstances when collateral is repossessed and anticipated to
sell at a future date.
     Total non-performing assets were $98.2 million and $96.1 million,
respectively, at December 31, 1999, and 1998. As of the same dates,
non-performing loans represented .40% of total loans, while non-performing
assets as a percent of total loans and other real estate were .47% and .49%,
respectively. Loans past due ninety days or more but continuing to accrue
interest were $61.3 million at December 31, 1999, versus $51.0 million one year
ago.
     Huntington also actively manages potential problem loans that are current
as to principal and interest but require closer monitoring in the event of
deterioration in borrower performance. These potential problem credits totaled
$63.2 million at December 31, 1999.



Note: For 1999, the amount of interest income which would have been recorded
   under the original terms for total loans classified as non-accrual or
   renegotiated was $6.1 million. Amounts actually collected and recorded as
   interest income for these loans totaled $3.5 million.

CAPITAL AND DIVIDENDS

     Huntington places significant emphasis on the maintenance of strong
capital, which promotes investor confidence, provides access to the national
markets under favorable terms, and enhances business growth and acquisition
opportunities. Huntington also recognizes the importance of managing excess
capital and continually strives to maintain an appropriate balance between
capital adequacy and returns to shareholders. Capital is managed at each
subsidiary based upon the respective risks and growth opportunities, as well as
regulatory requirements.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Average shareholders' equity was $2.1 billion for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1999, and 1998. Huntington's ratio of average equity to average
assets in the recent year was 7.47%, compared with 7.68% one year ago.
     Risk-based capital guidelines established by the Federal Reserve Board set
minimum capital requirements and require institutions to calculate risk-based
capital ratios by assigning risk weightings to assets and off-balance sheet
items, such as interest rate swaps and loan commitments. These guidelines
further define "well-capitalized" levels for Tier 1, Total Capital, and Leverage
ratio purposes at 6%, 10%, and 5%, respectively. At the recent year end,
Huntington's Tier 1 capital ratio was 7.52%, its Total Capital ratio was 10.72%,
and its Leverage ratio was 6.72%, each of which exceeds the well-capitalized
requirements. Huntington's bank subsidiary also had regulatory capital ratios in
excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions.
     Cash dividends declared were $.76 a share in 1999, up 11.8% from 1998. A
10% stock dividend was distributed to shareholders in the year just ended,
marking the twenty-sixth consecutive year in which Huntington has issued a stock
split or stock dividend.
     During 1999, Huntington repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares of its
common stock through open market and privately negotiated transactions. The 16.5
million-share authorization (after adjusting for the July 1999 ten percent stock
dividend) approved by the Board of Directors in the third quarter of 1998 is
still in process of completion. As of December 31, 1999, 11.9 million shares
remained under the authorization. Repurchased shares are being reserved for
reissue in connection with Huntington's dividend reinvestment and employee
benefit plans as well as for stock dividends, acquisitions, and other corporate
purposes.

FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS

     On an operating basis, earnings for the fourth quarter of 1999 were $114.9
million, or $.50 per share, compared with $91.5 million, or $.39 per share, in
the same period last year. ROE for the current and prior year quarter was 21.64%
and 17.87%, respectively. ROA was 1.57%, versus 1.31% in last year's final three
months. Cash basis ROE was 33.69%, up from 29.44% in the comparable period of
1998. Cash basis ROA was 1.71% versus 1.45% one year ago.
     Net interest income was $252.7 million in the recent quarter, a decrease of
5.5% over the corresponding period last year. This decrease reflects the decline
associated with the credit card sale as well as non-recurring events caused by
the uncertainties involving the transition to the year 2000 such as higher
short-term LIBOR rates and cash reserve levels. After adjusting for the sale of
the credit card portfolio, average total loans grew 12% and average earning
assets increased 9% over prior quarter balances as a result of strong volumes in
automobile leasing and home equity lending. Core deposits declined 1.4%
(annualized), primarily due to slight declines in transaction accounts believed
to be related to customer uncertainty surrounding the year 2000.
     The provision for loan losses, favorably impacted by the credit card sale,
was $20.0 million in the last quarter of the year, compared with $34.3 million
in the same period of 1998. Annualized net charge-offs declined to .32% from
 .61% of average loans in the same periods.
     Securities transactions for the recent quarter included the sale of a
portion of Huntington's investment in common stock of S1 Corporation, which
netted a gain of $7.3 million. Excluding securities gains and the $108.5 million
gain from the sale of Huntington's credit card portfolio as discussed above,
non-interest income was up 7.1% to $114.3 million for the recent quarter from
$106.7 million a year ago. Growth was negatively impacted by the fourth quarter
sale of the credit card portfolio combined with lower mortgage banking income.
Significant growth was seen in service charges on deposit accounts related to
expanded cash management sales and recent pricing changes. Increased check card
and Web Bank fees drove Electronic Banking fees up 25.4% from the same period a
year ago. Brokerage and insurance income was up 35.8% from the fourth quarter
1998, led by retail investment sales.
     Non-interest expense, excluding other non-recurring expenses and special
charges, totaled $204.9 million in the most recent three months, versus $208.9
million in the final three months of 1998. The decline is due to Huntington's
emphasis on efficiency and cost containment. Decreased personnel and related
expenses helped offset higher occupancy and equipment costs associated with
strategic spending for new banking offices and the move to Huntington's new
operations center. During the fourth quarter of 1999, Huntington recorded $96.8
million in costs related to the company's "Huntington 2000+" program as well as
other one-time expenses. Please refer to Huntington's previous discussion under
Non-Interest Expense for further details.
     The provision for income taxes was $46.8 million for the recent quarter,
compared with $41.0 million in 1998. Huntington's effective tax rate for the
respective quarterly periods was 28.9% and 31.0%, representing the impact of the
establishment and contribution of $15 million to the private charitable
foundation.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

YEAR 2000

     Huntington, in an enterprise-wide effort, completed its preparations in
1999 for the Year 2000 date change. Huntington's Year 2000 Plan (the Plan)
addressed all systems, software, hardware, and infrastructure components. The
Plan also addressed various third-party vendors and service providers to ensure
that continued service was in place for core business activities. Furthermore,
the Plan included the update of all of Huntington's contingency plans in the
event that problems related to the Year 2000 date change arose. In addition,
Huntington placed a freeze on all changes to major business processes and
systems beginning on November 1, 1999. The purpose of this freeze was to ensure
that new programs would not be introduced to the company's existing processes
and systems that already had been validated for Year 2000 readiness. This freeze
was lifted earlier than planned on February 1, 2000.
     Identifiable costs for the Year 2000 project incurred in 1999 approximated
$13 million, bringing the total cost of the project to roughly $30 million over
a three-year period. These costs incorporated not only incremental third-party
expenses but also included the salary and benefit costs of employees redeployed
and costs of the call center which handled an increased number of customer
inquiries before and after January 1, 2000. A minimal amount of expenses will be
incurred in 2000 but is not expected to materially impact the operating results
in any one period.
     Huntington benefited from all of the additional work and expense by
improving its systems and processes, increasing its internal controls through
the auditing and quality assurance programs, improving relationships among
business lines, and updating all of its contingency plans. To date, Huntington
has not experienced any business disruptions or corruption of its systems.
Huntington will continue to monitor its systems and third party relationships
throughout 2000 to address unanticipated problems (which may include problems
associated with non-Year 2000 compliant third parties and disruptions to the
economy in general) and ensure that all processes continue to function properly.

PENDING ACQUISITION

     On February 7, 2000, Huntington announced that it had entered into a merger
agreement with Empire Banc Corporation, a $506 million one-bank holding company
headquartered in Traverse City, Michigan. Huntington will issue its common stock
at a ratio of 2.0355 shares for each outstanding share of Empire Banc common
stock in a transaction that will be accounted for as a purchase. Huntington
plans to purchase on the open market and then reissue approximately 6.5 million
shares in connection with the transaction. The merger is expected to be
completed by the end of the second quarter of 2000.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(1) Fully tax equivalent yields are calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.
(2) Net loan rate includes loan fees, whereas individual loan components above
    are shown exclusive of fees. Individual components include non-accrual
    balances and related interest received.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------






                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



(1)   Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable.
(2)   Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MARKET PRICES, KEY RATIOS AND STATISTICS (QUARTERLY DATA)



- ----------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Adjusted for stock splits and stock dividends, as applicable.
(2)  Presented on an "operating" basis (excludes 1998 special charges, net of
     related taxes).
(3)  Presented on a fully tax equivalent basis assuming a 35% tax rate.


                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Management's Discussion and Analysis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------






ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

        Information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 on pages 16
through 19 under the caption "Interest Rate Risk and Liquidity Management."

ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

     The integrity of the financial statements and other financial information
contained in this Financial Supplement to the Proxy Statement is the
responsibility of the management of Huntington. Such financial information has
been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, based
on the best estimates and judgment of management.
     Huntington maintains a system of internal accounting controls designed to
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed and recorded in
accordance with management's authorization and that the assets of Huntington are
properly safeguarded. This system includes the careful selection and training of
staff, the communication of policies and procedures consistent with the highest
standards of business conduct, and the maintenance of an internal audit
function.
     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed entirely of
outside directors and it meets periodically with both internal and independent
auditors to review the results and recommendations of their audits. This
Committee selects the independent auditor with the approval of shareholders.
     The accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP has been engaged by Huntington to
audit its financial statements, and their report appears below.

   /s/ Frank Wobst                         /s/ Anne Creek
   -----------------------                 ---------------------------
   Frank Wobst                             Anne Creek
   Chairman and                            Executive Vice President,
   Chief Executive Officer                 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer



REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP,
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Huntington
Bancshares Incorporated and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Huntington
Bancshares Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                                          /s/ Ernst & Young, LLP
Columbus, Ohio
January 13, 2000



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




See notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




NOTE: Huntington made interest payments of $987,513, $995,625, and $964,203 in
      1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. Federal income tax payments were
      $80,832 in 1999, $77,407 in 1998, and $114,755 in 1997.


      See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NOTE 1 | ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF OPERATIONS: Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington) is a
multi-state bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and
headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, Huntington is engaged
in full-service commercial and consumer banking, mortgage banking, lease
financing, trust services, discount brokerage services, underwriting credit life
and disability insurance, issuing commercial paper guaranteed by Huntington, and
selling other insurance and financial products and services. Huntington's
subsidiaries operate domestically in offices located in Florida, Georgia,
Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, South
Carolina, and West Virginia. Huntington also has foreign offices in the Cayman
Islands and Hong Kong.
     BASIS OF PRESENTATION: The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Huntington and its subsidiaries and are presented in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the current year's presentation.
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
     NEW PRONOUNCEMENTS: In September 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities". This Statement (as amended by Statement No. 137)
establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability
measured at its fair value. The Statement requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows gains and losses from derivatives to offset related results on the hedged
item in the income statement, and requires that a company must formally
document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions for which
hedge accounting is applied.
     Statement No. 133, as amended, is effective for fiscal years beginning
after September 15, 2000. It may be implemented earlier provided adoption occurs
as of the beginning of any fiscal quarter after issuance. The Statement cannot
be applied retroactively. Huntington expects to adopt Statement No. 133, as
amended, in the first quarter of 2001. Based on information available, the
impact of adoption is not expected to be material to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
     SECURITIES: Debt securities that Huntington has both the positive intent
and ability to hold to maturity are classified as investments and are carried at
amortized cost. Securities purchased with the intention of recognizing
short-term profits are placed in the trading account and carried at fair value.
Securities not classified as investments or trading are designated available for
sale and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on securities
available for sale are carried as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. Unrealized gains and losses on
securities classified as trading are reported in earnings. The amortized cost of
specific securities sold is used to compute realized gains and losses.
     LOANS AND LEASES: Loans and leases are stated at the principal amount
outstanding, net of unearned discount. Interest income on loans is primarily
accrued based on principal amounts outstanding. Income from lease financing is
recognized on a basis to achieve a constant periodic rate of return on the
outstanding investment.
     Commercial and real estate loans are placed on non-accrual status and stop
accruing interest when collection of principal or interest is in doubt. When
interest accruals are suspended, accrued interest income is reversed with
current year accruals charged to earnings and prior year amounts generally
charged off as a credit loss. Consumer loans are not placed on non-accrual
status; rather they are charged off in accordance with regulatory statutes.
Huntington uses the cost recovery method in accounting for cash received on
non-accrual loans. Under this method, cash receipts are applied entirely against
principal until the loan has been collected in full, after which time any
additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income.
     Net direct loan origination costs/fees, when material, are deferred and
amortized over the term of the loan as a yield adjustment.
     ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES: The allowance for loan losses reflects
management's judgment as to the level considered appropriate to absorb inherent
losses in the loan portfolio. This judgment is based on a review of individual
loans, historical loss experience, economic conditions, portfolio trends, and
other factors. The allowance is increased by provisions charged to earnings and
reduced by charge-offs, net of recoveries.
     The portion of the allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans
(non-accruing and restructured credits, exclusive of smaller, homogeneous loans)
is based on discounted cash flows using the loans initial effective interest
rate or the fair value of the collateral for collateral-dependent loans.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1 | ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

     OTHER REAL ESTATE: Other real estate acquired through partial or total
satisfaction of loans, is included in other assets and carried at the lower of
cost or fair value less estimated costs of disposition. At the date of
acquisition, any losses are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent
write-downs are included in non-interest expense. Realized losses from
disposition of the property and declines in fair value that are considered
permanent are charged to the reserve for other real estate, as applicable.
     PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT: Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed principally by the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
Estimated useful lives employed are on average 30 years for buildings, 10 to 20
years for building improvements, 10 years for land improvements, 3 to 7 years
for equipment, and 10 years for furniture and fixtures.
     MORTGAGE BANKING ACTIVITIES: Mortgages held for sale are reported at the
lower of cost or aggregate market value primarily as determined by outstanding
commitments from investors.
     Capitalized mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are evaluated for impairment
based on the fair value of those rights, using a disaggregated approach. MSRs
are amortized on an accelerated basis over the estimated period of net servicing
revenue.
     BUSINESS COMBINATIONS: Net assets of entities acquired, for which the
purchase method of accounting was used by Huntington, were recorded at their
estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess of cost over the
fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) is being amortized over periods
generally up to 25 years. Core deposits and other identifiable acquired
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Management
reviews intangible assets arising from business combinations for impairment
whenever a significant event occurs that adversely affects operations or when
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. Impairment is measured using estimates of the discounted future
earnings potential of the entity or assets acquired.
     OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: Huntington uses certain
off-balance sheet financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, in
connection with its asset/liability management activities. Purchased interest
rate options (including caps and floors), futures, and forwards are also used to
manage interest rate risk. Provided these instruments meet specific criteria,
they are considered hedges and accounted for under the accrual or deferral
methods, as more fully discussed below. Off-balance sheet financial instruments
that do not meet the required criteria are carried on the balance sheet at fair
value with realized and unrealized changes in that value recognized in earnings.
Similarly, if the hedged item is sold or its outstanding balance otherwise
declines below that of the related hedging instrument, the off-balance sheet
product is marked-to-market and the resulting gain or loss is included in
earnings. Accrual accounting is used when the cash flows attributable to the
hedging instrument satisfy the objectives of the asset/liability management
strategy. Huntington uses the accrual method for substantially all of its
interest rate swaps as well as for interest rate options. Amounts receivable or
payable under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to the interest
income or expense of the hedged item. There is no recognition on the balance
sheet for changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument, except for
interest rate swaps designated as hedges of securities available for sale, for
which changes in fair values are reported in accumulated other comprehensive
income. Premiums paid for interest rate options are deferred as a component of
other assets and amortized to interest income or expense over the contract term.
Gains and losses on terminated hedging instruments are also deferred and
amortized to interest income or expense generally over the remaining life of the
hedged item.
     Huntington employs deferral accounting when the market value of the hedging
instrument meets the objectives of the asset/liability management strategy and
the hedged item is reported at other than fair value. In such cases, gains and
losses associated with futures and forwards are deferred as an adjustment to the
carrying value of the related asset or liability and are recognized in the
corresponding interest income or expense accounts over the remaining life of the
hedged item.
     STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS: Cash and cash equivalents are defined as `Cash and
due from banks' and "Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements."







                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NOTE 2 | SECURITIES

     Amortized cost, unrealized gains and losses, and fair values of securities
available for sale as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, were:



Contractual maturities of securities available for sale as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, were:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1999                    1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               AMORTIZED       FAIR       AMORTIZED      FAIR
(in thousands of dollars)         COST         VALUE        COST         VALUE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Under 1 year                   $   21,606   $   21,633   $    8,492   $    8,485
1 - 5 years                     1,093,746    1,061,445    1,220,852    1,231,499
6 - 10 years                    1,132,691    1,069,151    1,140,334    1,161,035
Over 10 years                   2,757,504    2,651,733    2,365,180    2,373,092
Marketable equity securities       10,524       66,241        8,359        7,304
                               ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
     Total                     $5,016,071   $4,870,203   $4,743,217   $4,781,415
                               ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========


     Gross gains from sales of securities of $37.0 million, $41.5 million, and
$12.3 million were realized in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. Gross losses
totaled $24.0 million in 1999, $11.7 million in 1998, and $4.3 million in 1997.
Huntington securitized and transferred to securities available for sale $108.7
million of residential mortgage loans in 1998.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 2 | SECURITIES (CONTINUED)

     Amortized cost, unrealized gains and losses, and fair values of investment
securities as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, were:




Amortized cost and fair values by contractual maturity at December 31, 1999 and
1998, were:




NOTE 3 | LOANS

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, loans were comprised of the following:



     During the fourth quarter of 1999, Huntington sold its credit card
portfolio of approximately $541 million in receivables, resulting in a net gain
of $108.5 million.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 3 | LOANS (CONTINUED)

     Huntington's subsidiaries have granted loans to their officers, directors,
and their associates. Such loans were made in the ordinary course of business
under normal credit terms, including interest rate and collateralization, and do
not represent more than the normal risk of collection. These loans to related
parties are summarized as follows:



NOTE 4 | ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

     A summary of the transactions in the allowance for loan losses and details
regarding impaired loans follows for the three years ended December 31:





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 5 | PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, premises and equipment stated at cost were
comprised of the following:



Depreciation and amortization charged to expense and rental income credited to
occupancy expense were:



     In 1998, Huntington entered into a sale/leaseback arrangement that included
the sale of 59 properties with a book value approximating $110 million. This
arrangement included a mix of branch banking offices, regional offices, and
operations facilities, which Huntington will continue to operate under a
long-term lease. The proceeds of $174.1 million received from the transaction
were used to reduce short-term debt. The resulting deferred gain is being
amortized as a reduction of occupancy expense over the lease term.

NOTE 6 | SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, short-term borrowings were comprised of the
following:




Information concerning securities sold under agreements to repurchase is
summarized as follows:


     Commercial paper is issued by Huntington Bancshares Financial Corporation,
a non-bank subsidiary, with principal and interest guaranteed by Huntington
Bancshares Incorporated (Parent Company).
     Huntington has the ability to borrow under a line of credit totaling $200
million to support commercial paper borrowings or other short-term working
capital needs. Under the terms of the agreement, a quarterly fee must be paid
and there are no compensating balances required. The line is cancelable by
Huntington upon written notice and terminates August 23, 2000. There were no
borrowings under the line in 1999 or 1998.
     Securities pledged to secure public or trust deposits, repurchase
agreements, and for other purposes were $3.3 billion and $2.0 billion at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 7 | DEBT

    At December 31, 1999 and 1998, Huntington's debt consisted of the following:




PARENT COMPANY OBLIGATIONS:

     The 7 7/8% Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity in 2002, and do not
provide for any sinking fund. Interest rate swaps were used by Huntington to
convert the Notes to a variable interest rate. At December 31, 1999, the
effective interest rate on the swap-adjusted Notes was 6.47%.

SUBSIDIARY OBLIGATIONS:

     The 7 5/8% Notes and the 6 3/4% Notes were both issued by The Huntington
National Bank in 1993. Adjusted for the effects of interest rate swaps, the
effective rates were 5.67% and 6.31% at December 31, 1999, respectively. These
Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity in 2003, and do not provide for any
sinking fund. The 6 3/5% Notes and the Floating Rate Notes were issued by The
Huntington National Bank in 1998. Adjusted for the effects of interest rate
swaps, the interest rates were 6.58% and 6.57% at December 31, 1999,
respectively. The Floating Rate Notes are based on the three-month London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
     The Medium-term bank notes had weighted average interest rates of 5.83% and
6.31% at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The stated interest rates on
certain of these notes have also been modified by interest rate swaps. At
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the weighted average effective interest rate on the
swap-adjusted Medium-term bank notes was 5.84% and 5.16%, respectively.
     The terms of Huntington's medium and long-term debt obligations contain
various restrictive covenants including limitations on the acquisition of
additional debt in excess of specified levels, dividend payments, and the
disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1999, Huntington was in
compliance with all such covenants.
     The following table summarizes the maturities of Huntington's medium and
long-term debt:

- -----------------------------------------------------
YEAR                        (in thousands of dollars)
- -----------------------------------------------------

2000                                     $ 1,507,000
2001                                       1,205,000
2002                                         497,150
2003                                         305,000
2004                                         125,000
2005 and thereafter                          315,000
                                        -------------

                                           3,954,150
Discount                                      (2,323)
                                        -------------

Total                                    $ 3,951,827
                                        =============



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 8 | CAPITAL SECURITIES

     The Company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities
of subsidiary trusts holding solely the junior subordinated debentures of the
parent company ("Capital Securities") were issued by two business trusts,
Huntington Capital I and II ("the Trusts"). Huntington Capital I was formed in
January 1997 while Huntington Capital II was formed in June 1998. The proceeds
from the issuance of the capital and common securities were used to purchase
debentures of the parent company. The Trusts hold solely junior subordinated
debentures of the parent company and are the only assets of the Trusts. Both the
debentures and related income statement effects are eliminated in Huntington's
consolidated financial statements.
     The parent company has entered into contractual arrangements that, taken
collectively and in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee
by the parent company of the Trusts' obligations under the capital securities
issued. The contractual arrangements guarantee payment of (a) accrued and unpaid
distributions required to be paid on the Capital Securities; (b) the redemption
price with respect to any capital securities called for redemption by Huntington
Capital I or II; and (c) payments due upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
winding-up, or termination of Huntington Capital I or II. The capital and common
securities and related debentures are summarized as follows:




(1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 1999 and 1998, of 6.91% and 5.92%,
    respectively.

(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 1999 and 1998, of 6.75% and 5.85%,
    respectively.


NOTE 9 | OPERATING LEASES

     At December 31, 1999, Huntington and its subsidiaries were obligated under
noncancelable leases for land, buildings, and equipment. Many of these leases
contain renewal options, and certain leases provide options to purchase the
leased property during or at the expiration of the lease period at specified
prices. Some leases contain escalation clauses calling for rentals to be
adjusted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses, or
proportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other price indices.
     The following summary reflects the future minimum rental payments, by year,
required under operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable
lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 1999.

- -------------------------------------------------------
YEAR                          (in thousands of dollars)
- -------------------------------------------------------

2000                                          $ 47,713
2001                                            44,000
2002                                            41,035
2003                                            38,090
2004                                            35,032
2005 and thereafter                            368,763
                                          -------------

Total                                         $574,633
                                          =============

    Total minimum lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease
rentals of $52.0 million due in the future under noncancelable subleases. The
rental expense for all operating leases was $39.1 million for 1999 compared with
$31.0 million in 1998 and $29.0 million in 1997.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 10 | BENEFIT PLANS

     Huntington sponsors a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan
covering substantially all employees. The plan provides benefits based upon
length of service and compensation levels. The funding policy of Huntington is
to contribute an annual amount which is at least equal to the minimum funding
requirements but not more than that deductible under the Internal Revenue Code.
Plan assets, held in trust, primarily consist of mutual funds.
     Huntington's unfunded defined benefit post-retirement plan provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits to retired employees who have attained
the age of 55 and have at least 10 years of service. For any employee retiring
on or after January 1, 1993, post-retirement healthcare and life insurance
benefits are based upon the employee's number of months of service and are
limited to the actual cost of coverage.
     The following table reconciles the funded status of the pension plan and
the post-retirement benefit plan at the applicable September 30 measurement
dates with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31:




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 10 | BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)

The following table shows the components of pension cost recognized in 1999,
1998, and 1997:



     The 2000 health care cost trend rate was projected to be 7.75% for pre-65
participants and 7.00% for post-65 participants compared with estimates of 8.50%
and 7.50% in 1999. These rates are assumed to decrease gradually until they
reach 4.75% in the year 2006 and remain at that level thereafter.
     The assumed health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. A one-percentage point increase would increase service and
interest costs and the post-retirement benefit obligation by $133 thousand and
$1.8 million, respectively. A one-percentage point decrease would reduce service
and interest costs by $138 thousand and the post-retirement benefit obligation
by $1.7 million.
     Huntington also sponsors an unfunded Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan, a nonqualified plan that provides certain key officers of Huntington and
its subsidiaries with defined pension benefits in excess of limits imposed by
federal tax law. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the accrued pension liability
for this plan totaled $10.7 million and $9.8 million, respectively. Pension
expense for the plan was $1.1 million in 1999, $1.2 million in 1998, and $1.3
million in 1997.
     Huntington has a contributory employee investment and tax savings plan
available to eligible employees. The plan was restated from an employee stock
purchase plan effective April 1, 1998, and renamed the Huntington Investment and
Tax Savings Plan. Matching contributions by Huntington equal 100% on the first
3% and 50% on the next 2% of participant elective deferrals. The cost of
providing this plan was $7.5 million in 1999, $8.3 million in 1998, and $9.7
million in 1997.


NOTE 11 | STOCK OPTIONS

     Huntington sponsors non-qualified and incentive stock option plans covering
key employees. Approximately 21.7 million shares have been authorized under the
plans, 5.3 million of which were available at December 31, 1999 for future
grants. All options granted have a maximum term of ten years. Options that were
granted in 1999 and 1998 vest ratably over three years while those granted in
1994 through 1997 vest ratably over four years. All grants preceding 1994 became
fully exercisable after one year.
     The fair value of the options granted, as presented below, was estimated at
the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following
weighted-average assumptions were used for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 5.60%, 5.28%, and 6.44%; dividend yields of 2.49%,
2.59%, and 2.86%; volatility factors of the expected market price of
Huntington's common stock of 39.7%, 26.2%, and 26.2%; and a weighted-average
expected option life of 6 years.


                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 11 | STOCK OPTIONS (CONTINUED)

     Huntington's stock option activity and related information for the three
years ended December 31 is summarized below:




     Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1999, ranged
from $4.82 to $31.19. The weighted-average remaining contractual life of these
options is 7.1 years.
     Huntington has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related
interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because the
alternative fair value accounting provided for under FASB Statement No. 123 (FAS
123), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", requires use of option
valuation models that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock
options. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of Huntington's employee stock
options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no
compensation expense is recognized.
     As permissible under FAS 123, Huntington is presenting the following pro
forma disclosures for net income and earnings per common share as if the fair
value method of accounting had been applied in measuring compensation costs for
stock options. The Black-Scholes option pricing model assumes that the estimated
fair value of the options is amortized over the options' vesting periods and the
compensation costs would be included in personnel expense on the income
statement.


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in millions, except per share amounts)       1999          1998         1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRO FORMA
Net income                                  $ 414.7       $ 297.8       $290.6
Earnings per common share--diluted          $  1.78       $  1.27       $ 1.24



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 12 | INCOME TAXES

     The following is a summary of the provision for income taxes:

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(in thousands of dollars)          1999             1998             1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently payable
     Federal                       $106,932        $ 133,012        $ 115,197
     State                            1,017            2,573            3,617
                                ------------     ------------     ------------
        Total current               107,949          135,585          118,814
                                ------------     ------------     ------------

Deferred tax expense
     Federal                         83,555            1,972           46,088
     State                            1,193              797            1,599
                                ------------     ------------     ------------
        Total deferred               84,748            2,769           47,687
                                ------------     ------------     ------------

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES         $192,697        $ 138,354        $ 166,501
                                ============     ============     ============

     Tax expense associated with securities transactions included in the above
amounts were $5.7 million in 1999, $10.8 million in 1998, and $2.9 million in
1997.

The following is a reconcilement of income tax expense to the amount computed at
the statutory rate of 35%:


The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December
31, 1999 and 1998, are as follows:




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 13 | OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS

     The contract or notional amount of financial instruments with off-balance
sheet risk at December 31, 1999 and 1998, is presented below:

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
(in millions of dollars)                         1999          1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTRACT AMOUNT REPRESENTS CREDIT RISK
     Commitments to extend credit
        Commercial                               $ 3,926       $ 3,833
        Consumer                                   2,320         3,820
        Other                                        ---           227
     Standby letters of credit                       803           758
     Commercial letters of credit                    169           138

NOTIONAL AMOUNT EXCEEDS CREDIT RISK
     Asset/liability management activities
        Interest rate swaps                        5,525         4,673
        Purchased interest rate options            1,289           965
        Interest rate forwards and futures           212           620

     Trading activities
        Interest rate swaps                          619           496
        Interest rate options                        392            68


     Commitments to extend credit generally have short-term, fixed expiration
dates, are variable rate, and contain clauses that permit Huntington to
terminate or otherwise renegotiate the contracts in the event of a significant
deterioration in the customer's credit quality. These arrangements normally
require the payment of a fee by the customer, the pricing of which is based on
prevailing market conditions, credit quality, probability of funding, and other
relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire without
being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future
cash requirements. The interest rate risk arising from these financial
instruments is insignificant as a result of their predominantly short-term,
variable rate nature.
     Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by Huntington
to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These guarantees
are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements,
including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. Most of
these arrangements mature within two years. Approximately 70% of standby letters
of credit are collateralized, and nearly 85% are expected to expire without
being drawn upon.
     Commercial letters of credit represent short-term, self-liquidating
instruments that facilitate customer trade transactions and have maturities of
no longer than ninety days. The merchandise or cargo being traded normally
secures these instruments.
     Interest rate swaps are agreements between two parties to exchange periodic
interest payments that are calculated on a notional principal amount. Huntington
enters into swaps to synthetically alter the repricing characteristics of
designated earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and, on a much more
limited basis, as an intermediary for customers. Because only interest payments
are exchanged, cash requirements of swaps are significantly less than the
notional amounts.
     Interest rate futures are commitments to either purchase or sell a
financial instrument at a future date for a specified price or yield and may be
settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying financial instrument.
Forward contracts, used primarily by Huntington in connection with its mortgage
banking activities, settle in cash at a specified future date based on the
differential between agreed interest rates applied to a notional amount.
Huntington also purchases interest rate options (e.g. caps and floors) to manage
fluctuating interest rates. Premiums paid for interest rate options grant
Huntington the right to receive at specified future dates the amount, if any, by
which a specified market interest rate exceeds the fixed cap rate or falls below
the fixed floor rate, applied to a notional amount. Exposure to loss from
interest rate contracts changes as interest rates fluctuate.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 13 | OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)

     In the normal course of business, Huntington is party to financial
instruments with varying degrees of credit and market risk in excess of the
amounts reflected as assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Loan commitments and letters of credit are commonly used to meet the financing
needs of customers, while interest rate swaps, purchased options, futures, and
forwards are an integral part of Huntington's asset/liability management
activities. To a much lesser extent, various financial instrument agreements are
entered into to assist customers in managing their exposure to interest rate
fluctuations. These customer agreements, for which Huntington counters interest
rate risk through offsetting third party contracts, are considered trading
activities.
     The credit risk arising from loan commitments and letters of credit,
represented by their contract amounts, is essentially the same as that involved
in extending loans to customers, and both arrangements are subject to
Huntington's standard credit policies and procedures. Collateral is obtained
based on management's credit assessment of the customer and, for commercial
transactions, may consist of accounts receivable, inventory, income-producing
properties, and other assets. Residential properties are the principal form of
collateral for consumer commitments.
     Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-balance sheet
financial instruments significantly exceed the credit risk associated with these
instruments and represent contractual balances on which calculations of amounts
to be exchanged are based. Credit exposure is limited to the sum of the
aggregate fair value of positions that have become favorable to Huntington,
including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential
credit losses are minimized through careful evaluation of counterparty credit
standing, selection of counterparties from a limited group of high quality
institutions, collateral agreements, and other contract provisions. At December
31, 1999, Huntington's credit risk from these off-balance sheet arrangements,
including trading activities, was approximately $75.3 million.


NOTE 14 | COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The components of Other Comprehensive Income were as follows in each of the
three years ended December 31:



NOTE 15 | LEGAL CONTINGENCIES

     In the ordinary course of business, there are various legal proceedings
pending against Huntington and its subsidiaries. In the opinion of management,
the aggregate liabilities, if any, arising from such proceedings are not
expected to have a material adverse effect on Huntington's consolidated
financial position.



                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 16 | EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings for the period available
to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted
earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each share of common
stock outstanding during the reporting period adjusted for the potential
issuance of common shares for stock options. The calculation of basic and
diluted earnings per share for each of the three years ended December 31 is as
follows:



     Average common shares outstanding and the dilutive effect of stock options
have been adjusted for subsequent stock dividends and stock splits, as
applicable.


NOTE 17 | 1998 SPECIAL CHARGES

     Huntington incurred special charges of $90 million in the fourth quarter
of 1998 to coincide with the announcement of several initiatives to strengthen
financial performance. The special charges included accruals for severance
payments to terminated employees ($26 million), consolidation costs (including
the termination of associated long-term lease contracts) related to 39 banking
offices identified for sale or closure ($20 million), the costs related to the
exit of underperforming product lines and delivery channels ($32 million), and
costs related to the write-off of abandoned information systems equipment and
software ($12 million).
     At December 31, 1999, Huntington had substantially completed all of its
strategic initiatives, including the sale or closure of identified banking
offices, discontinuation of various business activities and the targeted
reductions in the workforce that spanned the entire organization to improve
efficiency in back-room operations such as loan and deposit administration.
     All significant components of the charges were utilized as of December 31,
1999.


NOTE 18 | MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

     In June 1998, Huntington completed the acquisition of sixty former Barnett
Banks banking offices in Florida from Bank of America (formerly NationsBank
Corporation). The transaction was accounted for as a purchase, and accordingly,
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair
value. The purchase added approximately $1.3 billion in loans and $2.3 billion
in deposits. Intangible assets arising from the deal totaled approximately
$459.3 million. The acquired branches' results of operations have been included
in Huntington's consolidated totals from the date of the acquisition only.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 19 | REGULATORY MATTERS

     One of the major sources of funds for Huntington (parent company) are
dividends from its bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank (HNB). These
funds aid Huntington in the payment of dividends to shareholders, expenses and
other obligations. Payment of dividends to Huntington is subject to various
regulatory restrictions. Regulatory approval is required prior to the
declaration of any dividends in excess of available retained earnings. The
amount of dividends that may be declared without regulatory approval is further
limited to the sum of net income for the current year and retained net income
for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or common
stock. HNB could, without regulatory approval, declare dividends in 2000 of
approximately $317.0 million plus an additional amount equal to its net income
through the date of declaration in 2000.
     HNB is also restricted as to the amount and type of loans it may make to
Huntington. At December 31, 1999, HNB could lend to Huntington $217.5 million,
subject to the qualifying collateral requirements defined in the regulations.
HNB must maintain non interest-bearing cash balances with the Federal Reserve
Bank. During 1999 and 1998, the average balance of these deposits were $393.8
million and $192.5 million respectively.
     Huntington and HNB are subject to various regulatory capital requirements
administered by federal and state banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum
capital requirements can initiate certain actions by regulators that, if
undertaken, could have a material effect on Huntington's and HNB's financial
statements. Capital adequacy guidelines require minimum ratios of 4.00% for Tier
1 Risk-based Capital, 8.00% for Total Risk-based Capital, and 3.00% for Tier 1
Leverage. To be considered well capitalized under the regulatory framework for
prompt corrective action, the ratios must be at least 6.00%, 10.00% and 5.00%
respectively.
     Capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative
judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings of assets and
certain off-balance sheet items, and other factors. As of December 31, 1999 and
1998, Huntington has met all capital adequacy requirements. In addition, HNB had
regulatory capital ratios in excess of the levels established for
well-capitalized institutions.
     Presented in the table below are the capital ratios of Huntington and HNB
as well as a comparison of the period-end capital balances with the related
amounts established by the regulatory agencies:





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 20 | QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations
for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998:






(1) Adjusted for stock dividends and stock splits, as applicable.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 21 | NON-INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE

     A summary of the components in non-interest income follows for the three
years ended December 31:




     A summary of the components in non-interest expense follows for the three
years ended December 31:




     In the fourth quarter of 1999, Huntington recorded a $58.2 million
valuation adjustment related to vehicles underlying certain financing leases,
resulting from recent changes in both business dynamics and economic factors.
This amount was determined based on assumptions as to used car prices at lease
termination and as to the number of vehicles to be returned to Huntington. In
addition, Huntington incurred $38.6 million of additional costs, which included
$21 million associated with its "Huntington 2000+" program. These program costs
included amounts paid for management consulting and other professional services
as well as a special cash award to employees upon Huntington achieving certain
financial goals during 1999.


                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 22 | SEGMENT REPORTING

     Huntington views its operations as five distinct segments. Retail Banking,
Corporate Banking, Dealer Sales, and the Private Financial Group are the
company's major business lines. The fifth segment includes Huntington's Treasury
function and other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. Line
of business results are determined based upon Huntington's business
profitability reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income statement
items to each of the business segments. The process is designed around
Huntington's organizational and management structure and accordingly, the
results are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by
other financial institutions. Listed below is certain financial information
regarding Huntington's 1999 and 1998 results by line of business. For a detailed
description of the individual segments, refer to Huntington's Management's
Discussion and Analysis.



(1)  Includes $37,830 million, net of tax, from lease residual valuation
     adjustment. Excluding this adjustment, net income was $71,049.





                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 23 | FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Huntington's financial
instruments at December 31 are presented in the following table:



     Certain assets, the most significant being Bank Owned Life Insurance and
premises and equipment, do not meet the definition of a financial instrument and
are excluded from this disclosure. Similarly, mortgage servicing rights and
deposit base and other customer relationship intangibles are not considered
financial instruments and are not discussed below. Accordingly, this fair value
information is not intended to, and does not, represent Huntington's underlying
value. Many of the assets and liabilities subject to the disclosure requirements
are not actively traded, requiring fair values to be estimated by management.
These estimations necessarily involve the use of judgment about a wide variety
of factors, including but not limited to, relevancy of market prices of
comparable instruments, expected future cash flows, and appropriate discount
rates.
     The terms and short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in
their carrying value approximating fair value. These include cash and due from
banks, interest bearing deposits in banks, trading account securities, federal
funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, customers'
acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, and bank acceptances outstanding.
Loan commitments and letters of credit generally have short-term, variable rate
features and contain clauses that limit Huntington's exposure to changes in
customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, which are
immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of
fair value.
     The following methods and assumptions were used by Huntington to estimate
the fair value of the remaining classes of financial instruments:
     Mortgages held for sale - valued at the lower of aggregate cost or market
value primarily as determined using outstanding commitments from investors.
     Securities available for sale and investment securities - based on quoted
market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair
values are based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments. The carrying
amount and fair value of securities exclude the fair value of asset/liability
management interest rate contracts designated as hedges of securities available
for sale.




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 23 | FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

     Loans and leases - variable rate loans that reprice frequently are based on
carrying amounts, as adjusted for estimated credit losses. The fair values for
other loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and employ
interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms. The rates
take into account the position of the yield curve, as well as an adjustment for
prepayment risk, operating costs, and profit. This value is also reduced by an
estimate of probable losses in the loan portfolio. Although not considered
financial instruments, lease financing receivables have been included in the
loan totals at their carrying amounts.
     Deposits - demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market deposits
are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand. The fair values of
fixed rate time deposits are estimated by discounting cash flows using interest
rates currently being offered on certificates with similar maturities.
     Debt - fixed rate long-term debt, as well as medium-term notes and Capital
Securities, are based upon quoted market prices or, in the absence of quoted
market prices, discounted cash flows using rates for similar debt with the same
maturities. The carrying amount of variable rate obligations approximates fair
value.
     Off-balance sheet derivatives - interest rate swap agreements and other
off-balance sheet interest rate contracts are based upon quoted market prices or
prices of similar instruments, when available, or calculated with pricing models
using current rate assumptions.



NOTE 24 | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS




                                              HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
Consolidated Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NOTE 24 | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)






NOTE 24 | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)




    Supplemental data required for this item is set forth in Item 7 on page 27
under the caption "Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data."

ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not applicable.





                                    Part III
                                    --------

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information required by this item is set forth under the captions "Class I
Directors," "Class II Directors," and "Class III Directors" on pages 2 through 5
under the caption "Executive Officers of the Corporation" on pages 20 and 21,
and under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance"
on page 21, of Huntington's 2000 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information required by this item is set forth under the caption "Executive
Compensation" on pages 8 through 19, and under the caption "Compensation of
Directors" on page 5, of Huntington's 2000 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12:   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information required by this item is set forth under the caption "Ownership
of Voting Stock" on pages 6 and 7, of Huntington's 2000 Proxy Statement, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Transactions With Directors and Executive Officers" on pages 7 and 8, and under
the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on
page 15 of Huntington's 2000 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                     Part IV
                                     -------

ITEM 14:   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report:

          (1) The report of independent auditors and consolidated financial
              statements appearing in Item 8.

          (2) Huntington is not filing separately financial statement schedules
              because of the absence of conditions under which they are required
              or because the required information is included in the
              consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

          (3) The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhibit
              Index on pages 58 through 60 of this Form 10-K. The management
              contracts and compensation plans or arrangements required to be
              filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K are listed as Exhibits 10(a)
              through 10(o) in the Exhibit Index.

     (b)  During the quarter ended December 31, 1999, Huntington filed two
          Current Reports on Form 8-K. The first report, dated October 13,
          1999, was filed under Items 5 and 7, and concerned Huntington's
          results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 1999.
          The second report, dated November 17, 1999, was filed under Item 5
          and concerned certain management changes at Huntington.

     (c)  The exhibits to this Form 10-K begin on page 58.

     (d)  See Item 14(a)(2) above.




                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 22nd day of
February, 2000.

                       HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
                                  (Registrant)





     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 22nd day of February, 2000.



/s/ Don M. Casto, III                                /s/ Robert H. Schottenstein
- ------------------------------------                 ---------------------------
Don M. Casto, III                                    Robert H. Schottenstein
Director                                             Director


                                                     /s/ George A Skestos
- ------------------------------------                 ---------------------------
Don Conrad                                           George A. Skestos
Director                                             Director


/s/ Peter Geier                                      /s/ Lewis R. Smoot, Sr.
- ------------------------------------                 ---------------------------
Peter Geier                                          Lewis R. Smoot, Sr.
Director                                             Director


/s/ John B. Gerlach, Jr.                             /s/ Timothy P. Smucker
- ------------------------------------                 ---------------------------
John B. Gerlach, Jr.                                 Timothy P. Smucker
Director                                             Director


/s/ Patricia T. Hayot                                /s/ William J. Williams
- ------------------------------------                 ---------------------------
Patricia T. Hayot                                    William J. Williams
Director                                             Director


/s/ Wm. J. Lhota
- ------------------------------------
Wm. J. Lhota
Director



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

  3(i)(a).        Articles of Restatement of Charter, Articles of Amendment to
                  Articles of Restatement of Charter, and Articles Supplementary
                  -- previously filed as Exhibit 3(i) to Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

   (i)(b).        Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of Charter --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 3(i)(b) to Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (i)(c).        Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of Charter --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 3(i)(c) to Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (ii).          Amended and Restated Bylaws -- previously filed as Exhibit
                  3(ii) to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  September 30, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

  4(a).           Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders --
                  reference is made to Articles Fifth, Eighth, and Tenth of
                  Articles of Restatement of Charter, as amended and
                  supplemented. Instruments defining the rights of holders of
                  long-term debt will be furnished to the Securities and
                  Exchange Commission upon request.

   (b).           Rights Plan, dated February 22, 1990, between Huntington
                  Bancshares Incorporated and The Huntington National Bank (as
                  successor to The Huntington Trust Company, National
                  Association) -- previously filed as Exhibit 1 to Registration
                  Statement on Form 8-A, filed with the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission on February 22, 1990, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (c).           Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement, dated August 16,
                  1995-- previously filed as Exhibit 4(b) to Form 8-K, dated
                  August 16, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.

10.               Material contracts:

   (a).    *      Employment Agreement, dated April 25, 1996, between
                  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and Frank Wobst --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Quarterly Report on Form
                  10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1996, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (b).    *      Form of Tier I Executive Agreement for certain executive
                  officers -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(b) to Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (c).    *      Form of Tier II Executive Agreement for certain executive
                  officers -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(c) to Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (d).    *      Schedule identifying material details of Executive Agreements,
                  substantially similar to Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c).

   (e).    *      Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Amended and Restated
                  Incentive Compensation Plan, effective for performance cycles
                  beginning on or after January 1, 1999 -- previously filed as
                  Exhibit 10(e) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (f).    *      Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan,
                  effective for performance cycles beginning on or after January
                  1, 1999 -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Annual Report
                  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

   (g)(1). *      Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan with First and Second
                  Amendments -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, and
                  incorporated herein by reference.





   (g)(2). *      Third Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan --
                  previously filed as Exhibit 10(k)(2) to Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

   (g)(3). *      Fourth Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

   (h).    *      Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Directors --
                  reference is made to Exhibit 4(a) of Post-Effective Amendment
                  No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
                  33-10546, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
                  January 28, 1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (i)(1). *      1983 Stock Option Plan -- reference is made to Exhibit 4A of
                  Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 2-89672,
                  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February
                  27, 1984, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (i)(2). *      1983 Stock Option Plan -- Second Amendment -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit 10(j)(2) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1987, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (i)(3). *      1983 Stock Option Plan -- Third Amendment -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit 10(j)(3) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1987, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (i)(4). *      1983 Stock Option Plan -- Fourth Amendment -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit (m)(4) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1993, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (i)(5). *      1983 Stock Option Plan -- Fifth Amendment -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit (m)(5) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (j)(1). *      1990 Stock Option Plan -- reference is made to Exhibit 4(a)
                  of Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
                  33-37373, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
                  October 18, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (j)(2). *      First Amendment to Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 1990
                  Stock Option Plan -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(q)(2) to
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1991, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (j)(3). *      Second Amendment to Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 1990
                  Stock Option Plan -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(n)(3) to
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (k)(1). *      The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and Tax Savings
                  Plan and Trust (as amended and restated as of February 9,
                  1990) -- previously filed as Exhibit 4(a) to Registration
                  Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-44208, filed with
                  the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 1991,
                  and incorporated herein by reference.

   (k)(2). *      First Amendment to The Huntington Supplemental Stock
                  Purchase and Tax Savings Plan and Trust Plan -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit 10(o)(2) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

   (l).    *      Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Huntington
                  Bancshares Incorporated Directors -- reference is made to
                  Exhibit 4(a) of Registration Statement on Form S-8,
                  Registration No. 33-41774, filed with the Securities and
                  Exchange Commission on July 19, 1991, and incorporated herein
                  by reference.



   (m).    *      Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Retirement Plan For
                  Outside Directors -- previously filed as Exhibit 10(t) to
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1992, and incorporated herein by reference.

   (n).    *      Restated Huntington Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.

   (o)            * Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Option Plan -- previously
                  filed as Exhibit 10(r) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

21.               Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.               Consent of Ernst & Young, LLP, Independent Auditors.

27.               Financial Data Schedule.

99.               Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
- -------------

*Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




