
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K405




================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934.
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                      OR

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
     For the transition period from           to

                         Commission File Number 1-7882
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                     Delaware                                 94-1692300
           (State or other jurisdiction                    (I.R.S. Employer
         of incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

                  One AMD Place,
               Sunnyvale, California                            94086
     (Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 732-2400

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       (Name of each exchange
               (Title of each class)                    on which registered)
               ---------------------                    --------------------
            $.01 Par Value Common Stock               New York Stock Exchange

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [X]

    Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
February 26, 2001.

                               $7,175,108,834

    Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                 314,747,355 shares as of February 26, 2001.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1) Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2000, are incorporated into Parts II and IV hereof.
(2) Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
    held on April 26, 2001, are incorporated into Part III hereof.

================================================================================

    AMD, Advanced Micro Devices, AMD-K6, AMD Athlon, AMD Duron and 3DNow! are
either our trademarks or our registered trademarks. Vantis is a trademark of
Lattice Semiconductor Corporation. Microsoft, Windows, Windows NT and MS-DOS are
either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Alpha is a
trademark of Compaq Computer Corporation. Pentium is a registered trademark of
Intel Corporation. Other terms used to identify companies and products may be
trademarks of their respective owners.


                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

     The statements in this report that are forward-looking are based on current
expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ materially. The forward-looking statements relate
to, among other things, operating results; anticipated cash flows; capital
expenditures; adequacy of resources to fund operations and capital investments;
our ability to increase customer and market acceptance of AMD Athlon(TM) and AMD
Duron(TM) microprocessors, our seventh-generation microprocessors; our ability
to maintain average selling prices for our seventh-generation microprocessors;
our ability, and the ability of third parties, to provide timely infrastructure
solutions (chipsets and motherboards) to support our microprocessors; the effect
of foreign currency hedging transactions; our new submicron integrated circuit
manufacturing and design facility located in Dresden, Germany (Dresden Fab 30);
our ability to ramp production in Dresden Fab 30 and the Fujitsu AMD
Semiconductor Limited (FASL) manufacturing facilities. For a discussion of the
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-
looking statements, see the "Financial Condition" and "Risk Factors" sections
set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" contained in our 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, and
such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed
in our other Securities and Exchange Commission reports and filings.


General

     Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on
May 1, 1969. Our mailing address and executive offices are located at One AMD
Place, Sunnyvale, California 94086, and our telephone number is (408) 732-2400.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to "AMD," "we" and "us" in this report
include our subsidiaries.

     We are a semiconductor manufacturer with manufacturing facilities in the
U.S., Europe and Asia and sales offices throughout the world. Our products
include a wide variety of industry-standard digital integrated circuits (ICs)
which are used in many diverse product applications such as telecommunications
equipment, data and network communications equipment, consumer electronics,
personal computers (PCs), workstations and servers.

     For segment information with respect to sales, operating results and
identifiable assets, refer to the information set forth in Note 9 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

     For a discussion of the risk factors related to our business operations,
please see the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,"
"Risk Factors" and "Financial Condition" sections set forth in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
contained in our 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders.


 The IC Industry

     The IC market has grown dramatically over the past ten years, driven
primarily by the demand for electronic business and consumer products. Today,
virtually all electronic products use ICs, including PCs and related
peripherals, voice and data communications and networking products, facsimile
and photocopy machines, home entertainment equipment, industrial control
equipment and automobiles.

     The market for ICs can be divided into separate markets for digital and
analog devices. We participate primarily in the market for digital ICs. The
three types of digital ICs used in most electronic systems are:

     .  microprocessors, which are used for control and computing tasks, and
        complementary chipset devices;

     .  memory circuits, which are used to store data and programming
        instructions; and

     .  logic circuits, which are employed to manage the interchange and
        manipulation of digital signals.

A discussion of the principal parts of the digital IC market in which we
participate follows.



 The Microprocessor Market

     The microprocessor market is comprised of two broad categories, which are
based on the function of the products. A microprocessor that performs computing
tasks is known as the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of a computer system.
Microprocessors used for control applications are often referred to as embedded
processors. AMD participates primarily in the CPU category, which is the largest
category within the microprocessor market.

     A CPU processor is an IC generally consisting of millions of transistors
that serves as the brain of a computer system such as a PC. The microprocessor
is typically the most critical component to the performance and efficiency of a
PC. The microprocessor controls data flowing through the electronic system and
manipulates such data as specified by the hardware or software which controls
the system. In 1981, IBM introduced its first PC containing a microprocessor
based upon the x86 instruction set developed by Intel Corporation and utilizing
the Microsoft(R) Corporation MS-DOS(R) operating system. As circuit design and
very large scale integration process technology have evolved, performance and
functionality of each new generation of x86 microprocessors have increased. The
x86 microprocessor market has been dominated by Intel since IBM's introduction
of the PC.

     The x86 microprocessor market is characterized by intense competition,
short product life cycles, and rapid advances in product design and process
technology. Today, the greatest demand for microprocessors is from PC
manufacturers. With few exceptions, PC manufacturers require x86 microprocessors
which are Microsoft Windows(R) compatible. Improvements in the performance
characteristics of microprocessors and decreases in production costs resulting
from advances in process technology have broadened the market for PCs and
increased the demand for microprocessors.

     The PC original equipment manufacturer (OEM) market is highly competitive.
Most PC suppliers have evolved from fully integrated manufacturers with
proprietary system designs to vendors focused on building brand recognition and
distribution capabilities. Almost all of these suppliers now rely on Intel or on
third-party manufacturers for the major subsystems of their PCs, such as the
motherboard and chipsets. These suppliers are also increasingly outsourcing the
design and manufacture of complete systems. The third-party manufacturers of
these subsystems, based primarily in Asia, are focused on providing PCs,
motherboards and complementary chipset devices that incorporate the latest
trends in features and performance at low prices. Increasingly, these third-
party manufacturers are also supplying fully configured PC systems through
alternative distribution channels.

     Embedded processors are also an important part of the microprocessor
market. Embedded processors are general purpose devices used to carry out a
single application with limited user interface and programmability. A system
designed around an embedded processor usually cannot be programmed by an end
user because the system is preprogrammed to execute a specific task. Key markets
for embedded processors include telecommunications, networking, office
automation, storage, automotive applications and industrial control.


 The Memory Market

     Memory ICs store data and instructions, and are characterized as either
volatile or non-volatile. Volatile devices lose their stored information after
electrical power is shut off, while non-volatile devices retain their stored
information. The three most significant categories of semiconductor memory are
(1) Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM) and (2) Static Random Access Memory
(SRAM), both of which are volatile memories, and (3) non-volatile memory, which
includes Read-Only Memory (ROM), Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM),
Electrically Erasable Electrically Programmable Read-Only Memory (EEPROM) and
Flash memory devices. DRAM provides large capacity main memory, and SRAM
provides specialized high-speed memory. We do not produce any DRAM products,
which are the largest part of the memory market, or SRAM products. Flash and
other non-volatile memory devices are used in applications in which data must be
retained after power is turned off. However, ROM cannot be rewritten, EPROM
requires ultraviolet light as part of an erasure step before it can be
rewritten, and EEPROM utilizes a larger, more expensive, memory cell.

     Several factors have contributed to an increasing demand for memory devices
in recent years, including the:

     .  expanding unit sales of PCs in the business and consumer markets;
     .  increasing use and functionality of cellular phones;
     .  increasing use of PCs to perform memory-intensive graphics and
        multimedia functions;
     .  volume of memory required to support faster microprocessors;
     .  proliferation of increasingly complex PC software; and
     .  increasing performance requirements of workstations, servers and
        networking and telecommunications equipment.

     Flash memory devices are being utilized for an expanding range of uses.
Flash memory devices have a size and cost advantage over EEPROM devices, and the
ability of Flash memory devices to be electrically rewritten to update
parameters or



system software provides greater flexibility and ease of use than other non-
volatile memory devices, such as ROM or EPROM devices. Flash memory devices can
store control programs and system-critical data in communication devices such as
cellular telephones and routers (devices used to transfer data between local
area networks). Another common application for Flash memory product is in PC
cards, which are inserted into notebook and subnotebook computers or personal
digital assistants to provide added data storage.


 The Logic Market

     Logic devices consist of structurally interconnected groupings of simple
logical "AND" and logical "OR" functions, commonly described as "gates."
Typically, complex combinations of individual gates are required to implement
the specialized logic functions required for system applications. The greater
the number of gates on a logic device, the higher that logic device's density
and, in general, device cost (for a particular process and architecture). Logic
devices are generally grouped into five families of products (from lowest
density to highest density):

     .  standard logic devices;
     .  programmable logic devices (PLDs);
     .  conventional gate-arrays;
     .  standard cells; and
     .  full custom ICs.

Conventional gate-arrays, standard cells and full-custom ICs are often referred
to as application-specific ICs (ASICs).

     Many manufacturers of electronic systems are striving to develop new and
increasingly complex products to address evolving market opportunities rapidly.
Achievement of this goal often precludes the use of standard logic ICs and
ASICs. Standard logic ICs generally perform simple functions and are not
customizable, limiting a manufacturer's ability to adequately tailor an end-
product system. Although ASICs can be manufactured to perform customized
functions, they generally involve relatively high initial design, engineering
and manufacturing costs, significant design risks, and may increase an end-
product's time to market. As a result, ASICs are generally limited to high-
volume products and products for which time to market may be less critical.

     A growing category of the full custom IC market is Application Specific
Standard Products (ASSPs). In this category, a full custom design, such as an
Ethernet controller, is used to implement a particular function and is sold to
multiple customers. Because the market requirements for these products have
become increasingly standard, they can achieve the cost advantages of full
custom design with the time to market advantages of a standard product. Almost
all of our networking products are a part of the ASSP category.

     Unlike ASICs and standard logic ICs, PLDs are standard products,
purchased by system manufacturers in an unprogrammed or blank state. Each
system manufacturer may then program the PLDs to perform a variety of specific
logic functions. Certain PLDs are reprogrammable. Compared to standard logic
ICs and ASICs, PLDs allow system designers to design and implement custom
logic more quickly. On June 15, 1999, we sold Vantis Corporation (Vantis), our
PLD subsidiary, to Lattice Semiconductor Corporation (Lattice), and we now
function as a foundry and provide administrative services to Vantis.


Product Segments

     In 2000, we participated in all three technology areas within the IC
market--microprocessors, memory circuits and logic circuits--through our Core
Products, Voice Communications and Foundry Services segments. Our Core Products
segment includes our PC processors, Memory products and Other IC products. PC
processors include AMD seventh-generation microprocessors and AMD-K6(R)
microprocessors. Memory products include Flash memory devices and EPROM devices.
Other IC products include embedded processors, platform products and networking
products. Our Voice Communications segment consisted of our voice communications
products subsidiary, Legerity, Inc. (Legerity), until July 31, 2000, the
effective date of its sale. Our Foundry Services segment consists of fees for
services that we provide to Legerity and Vantis, our former PLD subsidiary.

     On August 4, 2000, we completed the sale of 90 percent of Legerity for
approximately $375 million in cash, effective July 31, 2000. We retained a ten
percent ownership interest in Legerity and a warrant to acquire approximately an
additional ten percent. As part of the transaction, we entered into various
service contracts with Legerity to continue to provide, among other things,
wafer fabrication and assembly, test, mark and pack services to Legerity.


Core Products

     Core Products ($4.361 billion, or 94 percent, of our 2000 net sales)
include PC processor, memory and other IC products, with the majority of the
Core Products segment's net sales being derived from PC processors and Flash
memory devices.



PC Processors

     In 2000, our most significant microprocessor product sales were from the
AMD Athlon(TM) and AMD Duron(TM) processors, our seventh-generation
microprocessor products. The AMD Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors are based
on superscalar RISC architecture and are designed to be compatible with
operating system software such as Windows 2000, Windows NT(R), Windows 98 (and
their predecessor operating systems), Linux, Netware and UNIX.

     We began volume shipments of AMD Athlon microprocessors in the second half
of 1999. The AMD Athlon processor is an x86-compatible, seventh-generation
design featuring:

     .  a superpipelined, nine-issue superscalar microarchitecture optimized for
        high clock frequency;
     .  a fully pipelined, superscalar floating point unit;
     .  high-performance backside L2 cache interface;
     .  enhanced 3DNow!(TM) technology with 24 additional instructions designed
        to improve integer math calculations, data movements for Internet
        streaming, and digital signal processor (DSP) communications; and
     .  a system bus which is a 200 MHz system interface based on the Alpha(TM)
        EV6 bus protocol with support for scalable multiprocessing.

     We began shipments of AMD Duron processors in the second half of 2000. The
AMD Duron processor, a derivative of the AMD Athlon processor core, is designed
to provide an optimized solution for value-conscious business and home users,
and features:

     .  full-speed, on-chip L2 cache memory;
     .  a 200 MHz front side system bus; and
     .  a superscalar floating point unit with enhanced 3DNow! technology.

Our overall PC processor sales growth in 2001 depends upon a continuing
successful production ramp in Dresden Fab 30, timely volume availability of
chipsets and motherboards from third party suppliers and increasing commercial
and consumer market acceptance of AMD Athlon and AMD Duron microprocessors.

     Our microprocessor products have and will continue in 2001 and 2002 to
make significant contributions to our overall revenues, profit margins and
operating results. We plan to continue to make significant capital expenditures
to support our microprocessor products both in the near and long term. Our
ability to increase microprocessor product revenues, and benefit fully from the
substantial financial investments and commitments we have made and continue to
make related to microprocessors, depends upon the success of our seventh-
generation and future generations of microprocessors beginning with the "Hammer"
family of microprocessors that we plan to introduce in 2002. The Hammer
processors will be our first processors capable of 64-bit operation, and are
being designed to deliver leading-edge performance on both the 64-bit software
used by high-end workstations and servers and the 32-bit software used by the
majority of desktop users.

     The microprocessor market is characterized by short product life cycles and
migration to ever higher performance microprocessors. To compete successfully
against Intel in this market, we must transition to new process technologies at
a fast pace and offer higher performance microprocessors in significantly
greater volumes.  We must achieve acceptable yields while producing
microprocessors at higher speeds.

     Intel has dominated the market for microprocessors used in PCs for many
years. Because of its dominant market position, Intel has historically set and
controlled x86 microprocessor and PC system standards and, thus, dictated the
type of product the market requires of Intel's competitors. In addition, Intel
may and does vary prices on its microprocessors and other products at will and
thereby affects the margins and profitability of its competitors due to its
financial strength and dominant position. Intel also exerts substantial
influence over PC manufacturers and their channels of distribution through the
"Intel Inside" brand and other marketing programs. Intel invests billions of
dollars in, and as a result exerts influence over, many other technology
companies. We expect Intel to continue to invest heavily in research and
development, new manufacturing facilities and other technology companies, and to
remain dominant:

     .  through the Intel Inside and other marketing programs;
     .  through other contractual constraints on customers, retailers, industry
        suppliers and other third parties;
     .  by controlling industry standards; and
     .  by controlling supply and demand of motherboards, chipsets and other
        system components.



     As an extension of its dominant microprocessor market share, Intel also
dominates the PC platform. As a result, PC manufacturers have been increasingly
unable to innovate and differentiate their product offerings. We do not have the
financial resources to compete with Intel on such a large scale. As long as
Intel remains in this dominant position, we may be materially and adversely
affected by its:

     .  product mix and introduction schedules;
     .  product bundling, marketing, merchandising and pricing strategies;
     .  control over industry standards, PC manufacturers and other PC industry
        participants, including motherboard, chipset and basic input/output
        system (BIOS) suppliers; and
     .  customer brand loyalty.

     As Intel expanded its dominance over the PC system platform, many PC
manufacturers reduced their system development expenditures and now purchase
microprocessors together with chipsets or in assembled motherboards from Intel.
PC OEMs are increasingly dependent on Intel, less innovative on their own and,
to a large extent, distributors of Intel technology. In marketing our
microprocessors to these OEMs and dealers, we depend upon companies other than
Intel for the design and manufacture of core logic chipsets, graphics chips,
motherboards, BIOS software and other components. In recent years, many of these
third-party designers and manufacturers have lost significant market share to
Intel. In addition, these companies produce chipsets, motherboards, BIOS
software and other components to support each new generation of Intel's
microprocessors only if Intel makes information about its products available to
them in time to address market opportunities. Delay in the availability of such
information makes, and will continue to make, it increasingly difficult for
these third parties to retain or regain market share.

     To compete with Intel in the microprocessor market in the future, we intend
to continue to form close relationships with third-party designers and
manufacturers of chipsets, motherboards, graphics chips, BIOS software and other
components. Similarly, we intend to expand our chipset and system design
capabilities, and to offer OEMs licensed system designs incorporating our
processors and companion products. We cannot be certain, however, that our
efforts will be successful.

     We do not currently plan to develop microprocessors that are bus interface
protocol compatible with the Pentium III, Pentium IV and Celeron processors
because our patent cross-license agreement with Intel does not extend to
microprocessors that are bus interface protocol compatible with Intel's sixth
and subsequent generation processors. Thus, the AMD Athlon and AMD Duron
microprocessors are not designed to function with motherboards and chipsets
designed to work with Intel microprocessors. The same will be true of our Hammer
family microprocessors.  Our ability to compete with Intel in the market for
seventh-generation and future generation microprocessors will depend on our:

     .  success in designing and developing the microprocessors; and
     .  ability to ensure that the microprocessors can be used in PC platforms
        designed to support our microprocessors, or that platforms are available
        which support both Intel processors and our processors.


Memory Products

     Our Flash memory devices are used in cellular telephones, networking
equipment and other applications that require memory to be non-volatile and
electrically rewritten. This feature provides greater flexibility and ease of
use than EPROMs and other similar integrated circuits that cannot be
electrically rewritten. Flash memory devices also have a size and cost advantage
over EEPROM devices. Communications companies use Flash memory devices in
cellular telephones and related equipment to enable users to add and modify
frequently called numbers and to allow manufacturers to preprogram firmware and
other information. In networking applications, Flash memory devices are used in
hubs, switches and routers to enable systems to store firmware and reprogrammed
Internet addresses and other routing information. Use of Flash memory devices is
proliferating into a variety of other applications, such as set-top boxes,
automotive control systems, personal digital assistants, digital cameras and
other consumer electronic items.

     Competition in the market for Flash memory devices will increase in 2001
and beyond as existing manufacturers introduce new products and industry-wide
production capacity increases. In 2000, almost all of our Flash memory devices
were produced in Japan through Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited (FASL), our
joint venture with Fujitsu Limited.

     EPROMs represent an older generation of erasable, programmable read-only
memory technology which is used primarily in the electronic equipment industry.
These devices are used in cellular telephones, wireless base stations,
telecommunication



switching equipment, automotive applications, PC hard disk drives, printer
controllers, industrial machine controls and numerous other types of electronic
equipment to store firmware which controls the equipment's operation. EPROMs are
generally preferred over more expensive Flash memory devices in applications
where end users do not need to reprogram the information stored on the IC. We
believe the market for EPROMs, which is significantly smaller than the market
for Flash memory devices, will continue to decline as EPROMs are replaced in
various applications by Flash memory devices.


Other ICs

     Embedded Processors. Our embedded processors are x86 software compatible
general purpose processors designed specifically for embedded applications. Our
16-bit family of E86 embedded processors are built around the C186/C188
processor with additional integrated features such as additional memory, serial
ports, high-level data link control channels, or universal serial bus ports. Our
32-bit E86 family of embedded processors includes the AMD-K6-2E+, AMD-K6-IIIE+
and Am(R)486 discrete processors as well as the Elan(TM)SC400 and ElanSC520
fully integrated processors. Our Elan processors integrate the PC AT peripheral
set on chip to serve small form factor applications.

     Platform Products. Our platform products include chipsets and motherboard
reference design kits designed to support AMD seventh-generation
microprocessors for use in PCs. As the AMD Athlon and AMD Duron
microprocessors do not function with chipsets and motherboards designed to
work with Intel microprocessors, we must develop compatible platform products.
We license the design interface specifications for these products to third-
party manufacturers to facilitate the sale of our microprocessors. It is
possible that from time to time a third-party manufacturer will be unable to
make chipset products available to the market in a timely manner corresponding
with the introduction of our microprocessor products. As the lack of
availability of these third-party chipsets could impact our ability to sell
our microprocessors, we manufacture a quantity of chipsets within our own
fabrication facilities or our authorized foundries on a limited basis. We are
then able to have a supply of products available for sale, should the need
exist, until they are available from the third-party manufacturers.

     Networking Products. Our networking products include logic devices that are
used in the data communication and networking industry to establish and manage
connectivity.

     Our product portfolio encompasses the following local area network (LAN)
products:

     .  home networking controllers and physical layer products;
     .  Ethernet controllers supporting the enterprise and small business
        networking areas;
     .  Ethernet physical layer and repeater products which are used in
        enterprise and small business systems solutions; and
     .  Ethernet physical layer and switch products which are used in
        enterprise, small business and telecommunication systems.


Voice Communications

     Voice Communications Products ($140 million, or 3 percent, of our 2000
net sales) included the voice telecommunications products of our former
subsidiary, Legerity. These products are used in infrastructure equipment such
as central office switches, digital loop carriers and digital subscriber loop
access multiplexers (DSLAMS), and in customer premise equipment such as
wireless local loop systems, cable telephony systems, private branch exchange
equipment and voice over digital subscriber line (DSL) systems. In modern
telephone communications systems, voice communications are generally transmitted
between the speaker and the central office switch in analog format, but are
switched and transmitted over longer distances in digital format. Legerity's
subscriber line interface circuits (SLIC) for line cards connect the user's
telephone wire to the telephone company's digital switching equipment.
Legerity's SLAC(TM) line cards are coder/decoders which convert analog voice
signals to a digital format and back. Legerity's DSL products include a
coder/decoder device and a modem device for use in DSLAM applications.
Legerity's cordless telephony products include a baseband controller for the 900
MHz narrow band digital cordless market. On August 4, 2000, we completed the
sale of 90 percent of Legerity for approximately $375 million in cash to
Francisco Partners, L.P., effective July 31, 2000. We retained a ten percent
ownership interest in Legerity and a warrant to acquire approximately an
additional ten percent. As part of the transaction, we entered into various
service contracts with Legerity to continue to provide, among other things,
wafer fabrication and assembly, test, mark and pack services to Legerity.


Foundry Services

     Foundry Services ($142 million, or 3 percent of our 2000 net sales) include
fees for services provided to Lattice and Legerity.


Research and Development; Manufacturing Technology

     Our expenses for research and development were $642 million in 2000, $636
million in 1999 and $567 million in 1998. These expenses represented 14 percent
of net sales in 2000, 22 percent of net sales in 1999 and 22 percent of net
sales in 1998.



Our research and development expenses are charged to operations as they are
incurred. Most of our research and development personnel are integrated into the
engineering staff.

     Manufacturing technology is the key determinant in the improvement in most
semiconductor products. Each new generation of process technology has resulted
in products with higher speeds and greater performance produced at lower cost.
We continue to make significant infrastructure investments to enable us to
continue to achieve high volume, high reliability and low cost production using
leading edge process technology.

     Our efforts concerning process technologies are focused in two major areas:
logic technology used by our microprocessors and embedded processors, and non-
volatile memory technology used by Flash memory products. Our goals are to
improve product performance, increase manufacturing volumes and reduce unit
costs.

     In order to remain competitive, we must continue to make substantial
investments in the improvement of our process technologies. In particular, we
have made and continue to make significant research and development
investments in the technologies and equipment used to fabricate our
microprocessor products and our Flash memory devices. Portions of these
investments might not be fully recovered if we fail to continue to gain market
acceptance or if the market for our Flash memory products should significantly
deteriorate. In addition, if we are unable to remain competitive with respect
to process technology we will be materially and adversely affected.


Competition

     The IC industry is intensely competitive and, historically, has experienced
rapid technological advances in product and system technologies. After a product
is introduced, costs and average selling prices normally decrease over time as
production efficiency and competition increase, and as successive generations of
products are developed and introduced for sale. Technological advances in the
industry result in frequent product introductions, regular price reductions,
short product life cycles and increased product capabilities that may result in
significant performance improvements. Competition in the sale of ICs is based
on:

     .  performance;
     .  product quality and reliability;
     .  price;
     .  adherence to industry standards;
     .  software and hardware compatibility;
     .  marketing and distribution capability;
     .  brand recognition;
     .  financial strength; and
     .  ability to deliver in large volumes on a timely basis.

     In each market in which we participate, we face competition from different
groups of companies. With respect to microprocessors, Intel holds a dominant
market position. With respect to Flash memory products, our principal
competitors are Intel, STMicroelectronics N.V., Sharp Electronics Corporation
and Atmel Corporation. We also compete to a lesser degree with Fujitsu, our
joint venture partner in FASL. With respect to the voice communications products
of Legerity, our principal competitors through August 4, 2000, the date we
completed the sale of Legerity, were Infineon Corporation, Lucent Technologies
Inc., Intersil Corporation and LM Ericsson.



Manufacturing Facilities

     Our current IC manufacturing facilities are described in the chart set
forth below:


__________
(1) We own 49.992 percent of FASL. Fujitsu owns 50.008 percent of FASL.

    In July 2000, FASL broke ground for a third fabrication facility, FASL JV3,
for the manufacture of Flash memory devices in Aizu-Wakamatsu. As of December
31, 2000, the building was complete and the clean room was under construction.
We also have foundry arrangements for the production of our products by third
parties.

    Our Submicron Development Center is a 42,000 square foot research and
development facility located in Sunnyvale, California.

    Our current assembly and test facilities are described in the chart set
forth below:



    Foreign manufacturing and construction of foreign facilities entails
political and economic risks, including political instability, expropriation,
currency controls and fluctuations, changes in freight and interest rates, and
loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. For example, if we
were unable to assemble and test our products abroad, or if air transportation
between the United States and our overseas facilities were disrupted, there
could be a material adverse effect on our business.

    Certain Material Agreements. Set forth below are descriptions of certain
material contractual relationships we have relating to FASL, Dresden Fab 30 and
Motorola.

    FASL. In 1993, we formed FASL, a joint venture with Fujitsu, for the
development and manufacture of Flash memory devices. FASL operates advanced IC
manufacturing facilities in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan (FASL JV1 and FASL JV2), for
the production of Flash memory devices. FASL JV1 began volume production in the
first quarter of 1995, and utilizes eight-inch wafer processing technologies
capable of producing products with geometrics of .35-micron or smaller. FASL is
continuing the facilitization of FASL JV2, which began volume production in
1999, and also utilizes eight-inch wafer processing technologies.

    FASL JV3, described above under "Manufacturing Facilities," is expected to
cost approximately $1.5 billion when fully equipped. Capital expenditures for
FASL JV2 and FASL JV3 construction to date have been funded by cash generated
from FASL operations and local borrowings by FASL. However, to the extent that
FASL is unable to secure the necessary funds for FASL JV2 and FASL JV3, we may
be required to contribute cash or guarantee third-party loans in proportion to
our 49.992 percent interest in FASL. As of December 31, 2000, we had $38 million
in loan guarantees outstanding with respect to these loans. These planned costs
are denominated in yen and are, therefore, subject to change due to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of 2000, the exchange rate was
approximately 112.52 yen to one U.S. dollar.

    In connection with FASL, AMD and Fujitsu have entered into various joint
development, cross-license and investment arrangements. Pursuant to these
agreements, the companies are providing their product designs and process and
manufacturing technologies to FASL. In addition, both companies are
collaborating in developing manufacturing processes and designing Flash memory
devices for FASL. The right of each company to use the licensed intellectual
property of the other with respect to certain products is limited both in scope
and geographic areas. For instance, AMD and Fujitsu have cross-licensed their
respective intellectual property to produce stand-alone Flash memory devices
with geometrics of 0.5-micron or smaller within the joint venture. Furthermore,
our ability to sell Flash memory products incorporating Fujitsu intellectual
property, whether or not produced by FASL, is also limited in certain
territories, including Japan and Asia (excluding Taiwan). Fujitsu is likewise
limited in its ability to sell Flash memory devices incorporating our
intellectual property, whether or not produced by FASL, in certain territories
including the United States and Taiwan.

    Dresden Fab 30. AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH (AMD Saxony), an indirect
wholly owned German subsidiary of AMD, operates Dresden Fab 30 which began
production in the second quarter of 2000. AMD, the Federal Republic of Germany,
the State of Saxony and a consortium of banks are supporting the project. We
currently estimate construction and facilitization costs of Dresden Fab 30 will
be approximately $2.3 billion when the facility is fully equipped by the end of
2003. In


March 1997, AMD Saxony entered into a loan agreement and other related
agreements (the Dresden Loan Agreements) with a consortium of banks led by
Dresdner Bank AG. Because most of the amounts under the Dresden Loan Agreements
are denominated in deutsche marks, the dollar amounts set forth below are
subject to change based on applicable conversion rates. We used the exchange
rate at the end of 2000, which was approximately 2.20 deutsche marks to one U.S.
dollar, to value the amounts denominated in deutsche marks. The Dresden Loan
Agreements provide for the funding of the construction and facilitization of
Dresden Fab 30. The funding consists of:

     .  equity, subordinated loans and loan guarantees from AMD;
     .  loans from a consortium of banks; and
     .  grants, subsidies and loan guarantees from the Federal Republic of
        Germany and the State of Saxony.

  The Dresden Loan Agreements require that we partially fund Dresden Fab 30
project costs in the form of subordinated loans to, or equity investments in,
AMD Saxony. In accordance with the terms of the Dresden Loan Agreements, we have
invested $410 million as of December 31, 2000 in the form of subordinated loans
to and equity in AMD Saxony.   In addition to support from AMD, the consortium
of banks referred to above has made available $750 million in loans to AMD
Saxony to help fund Dresden Fab 30 project costs. AMD Saxony had $375 million of
such loans outstanding as of December 31, 2000.

     Finally, the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of Saxony are
supporting the Dresden Fab 30 project, in accordance with the Dresden Loan
Agreements, in the form of:

     .  guarantees of 65 percent of AMD Saxony bank debt up to a maximum of $750
        million in bank debt;
     .  capital investment grants and allowances totaling $287 million; and
     .  interest subsidies totaling $141 million.

     Of these amounts, AMD Saxony had received approximately $284 million in
capital investment grants and allowances and $38 million in interest subsidies
as of December 31, 2000. The grants and subsidies are subject to conditions,
including meeting specified levels of employment in December 2001 and
maintaining those levels until June 2007. Noncompliance with the conditions of
the grants and subsidies could result in the forfeiture of all or a portion of
the future amounts to be received as well as the repayment of all or a portion
of amounts received to date. As of December 31, 2000, we were in compliance with
all of the conditions of the grants and subsidies.

     In February 2001, we amended the Dresden Loan Agreements to reflect new
capacity and increased capital expenditure plans for Dresden Fab 30.  Under the
February 2001 amendments, we agreed to increase and extend our guaranty of AMD
Saxony's obligations and to make available to AMD Saxony revolving loans of up
to $500 million.  We expanded our obligation to reimburse AMD Saxony for the
cost of producing wafers for us and we also agreed to cancel the cost overrun
facility made available by the banks.  Under the February 2001 amendments, we
have been released from financial covenants limiting capital expenditures and
requiring AMD Saxony to achieve capacity and production cost targets by the end
of 2001.

     The Dresden Loan Agreements, as amended, also require that we:

     .  provide interim funding to AMD Saxony if either the remaining capital
        investment allowances or the remaining interest subsidies are delayed,
        such funding to be repaid to AMD as AMD Saxony receives the grants or
        subsidies from the state of Saxony;
     .  fund shortfalls in government subsidies resulting from any default under
        the subsidy agreements caused by AMD Saxony or its affiliates; and
     .  guarantee up to 35 percent of AMD Saxony's obligations under the Dresden
        Loan Agreements, which guarantee must not be less than $99 million or
        more than $273 million, until the bank loans are repaid in full.

     We entered into foreign currency hedging transactions for Dresden Fab 30 in
1998, 1999 and 2000 and anticipate entering into additional such foreign
currency hedging transactions in 2001 and in future years. We use foreign
currency forward and option contracts to reduce our exposure to currency
fluctuations on our foreign currency exposures in our foreign sales
subsidiaries, liabilities for products purchased from FASL and for foreign
currency denominated fixed asset purchase commitments. The objective of these
contracts is to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements
on our operating results and on the cost of capital asset acquisition. Our
accounting policy for these instruments is based on our designation of such
instruments as hedging transactions. We generally do not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.



     Motorola. In 1998, we entered into an alliance with Motorola for the
development of logic and Flash memory process technology. The alliance includes
a seven-year technology development and license agreement, which was amended on
January 21, 2000 to include certain additional technology, and a patent cross-
license agreement. The agreements provide that we will co-develop with Motorola
future generation logic process and embedded Flash technologies. In addition, we
have received certain licenses to Motorola's semiconductor logic process
technologies, including copper interconnect technology, which may be subject to
variable royalty rates. In exchange, we have developed and licensed to Motorola
a Flash module design to be used in Motorola's future embedded Flash products.
Motorola will have additional rights, subject to certain conditions, to make
stand-alone Flash devices, and to make and sell certain data networking devices.
The rights to data networking devices may be subject to variable royalty payment
provisions.


Marketing and Sales

     Our products are marketed and sold under the AMD trademark. We employ a
direct sales force through our principal facilities in Sunnyvale, California,
and field sales offices throughout the United States and abroad (primarily
Europe and Asia Pacific). We also sell our products through third-party
distributors and independent representatives in both domestic and international
markets pursuant to nonexclusive agreements. The distributors also sell products
manufactured by our competitors, including those products for which we are an
alternate source. One of our OEMs, Compaq Computer Corporation, accounted for
approximately 11 percent of our 2000 net sales. No other single distributor or
OEM customer accounted for ten percent or more of our net sales in 2000.

     Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most
instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our
products against price reductions, as well as products that are slow moving or
have been discontinued. These agreements, which may be canceled by either party
on a specified notice, generally allow for the return of our products if the
agreement with the distributor is terminated. The market for our products is
generally characterized by, among other things, severe price competition. The
price protection and return rights we offer to our distributors could materially
and adversely affect us if there is an unexpected significant decline in the
price of our products.

     Our international sales operations entail political and economic risks,
including expropriation, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, changes
in freight rates and changes in rates and exemptions for taxes and tariffs.


Raw Materials

     Certain raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are
available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, we are dependent on
key chemicals from a limited number of suppliers, and a few foreign companies
principally supply several types of the IC packages purchased by us.
Interruption of supply, increased demand in the industry or currency
fluctuations could cause shortages in various essential materials. We would have
to reduce our manufacturing operations if we were unable to procure certain of
these materials. This reduction in our manufacturing operations could have a
material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have not experienced
significant difficulty in obtaining the raw materials required for our
manufacturing operations.


Environmental Regulations

     We could possibly be subject to fines, suspension of production, alteration
of our manufacturing processes or cessation of our operations if we fail to
comply with present or future governmental regulations related to the use,
storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise
hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. Such regulations could
require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other expenses
to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control the use,
disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous
substances could subject us to future liabilities and could have a material
adverse effect on our business.


Intellectual Property and Licensing

     We have been granted over 3,700 United States patents, and have several
thousand patent applications pending in the United States. In certain cases, we
have filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. We expect to
file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on
significant inventions as we deem appropriate.



     In January 1995, we reached an agreement with Intel to settle all
previously outstanding legal disputes between the two companies. As part of the
settlement, in December 1995, we signed a five-year, comprehensive cross-license
agreement with Intel which expired on December 31, 2000. We are currently
negotiating a new agreement with Intel but there can be no assurance that a new
agreement will be successfully negotiated. The lack of a patent cross-license
with Intel could lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation, the outcomes
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

     In addition, we have entered into numerous cross-licensing and technology
exchange agreements with other companies under which we both transfer and
receive technology and intellectual property rights. Although we attempt to
protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade
secrets and other measures, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to
protect our technology or other intellectual property adequately or that
competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. We
cannot give any assurance that any patent applications that we may file will be
issued or that foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual
property rights. We cannot give any assurance that any patent licensed by or
issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the
rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us.
Furthermore, we cannot give any assurance that others will not independently
develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents
and other rights.

     From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing
intellectual property rights of others. If any claims are asserted against us,
we may seek to obtain a license under the third party's intellectual property
rights. We could decide, in the alternative, to resort to litigation to
challenge these claims. These challenges could be extremely expensive and time-
consuming and could materially and adversely affect our business. We cannot give
any assurance that all necessary licenses can be obtained on satisfactory terms,
or that litigation may always be avoided or favorably concluded.


Backlog

     We manufacture and market standard lines of products. Consequently, a
significant portion of our sales are made from inventory on a current basis.
Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, or
agreements covering purchases over a period of time, which are frequently
subject to revision and cancellation without penalty. Generally, in light of
current industry practice and experience, we do not believe that such agreements
provide meaningful backlog figures or are necessarily indicative of actual sales
for any succeeding period.


Employees

     On January 31, 2001, we employed approximately 14,696 employees, none of
whom are represented by collective bargaining arrangements. We believe that our
relationship with our employees is generally good.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

     W. J. Sanders III--Mr. Sanders, 64, is Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Sanders co-founded AMD in
1969.

     Hector de J. Ruiz--Dr. Ruiz, 55, is President and Chief Operating Officer
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Dr. Ruiz joined AMD in January 2000. Before
joining AMD, Dr. Ruiz was President of Motorola Inc.'s Semiconductor Products
Sector. Dr. Ruiz held various executive positions with Motorola since 1977.

     Benjamin M. Anixter--Mr. Anixter, 63, is Vice President, External Affairs
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., and has been since 1987. Mr. Anixter became a
corporate officer in April of 1999. He has been with AMD since 1971.

     Robert R. Herb--Mr. Herb, 39, is Executive Vice President, Chief Sales and
Marketing Officer of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Herb joined AMD in 1983.
In 1998, Mr. Herb became an officer of AMD and was promoted to Senior Vice
President and Co-Chief Marketing Officer. From 1996 until 1998, Mr. Herb served
as the Vice President of Group Strategic Marketing for the Computation Products
Group. Before that, he was a director of marketing for the Personal Computer
Products Division.



     Walid Maghribi--Mr. Maghribi, 48, is Senior Vice President and President of
the Memory Group of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Maghribi joined AMD in 1986
and was Group Vice President, Memory Group before being promoted to Senior Vice
President and President of the Memory Group in 2001. Before joining AMD, Mr.
Maghribi was Director of Operations of Seeq Technology, after joining the
company in 1982.

     Thomas M. McCoy--Mr. McCoy, 50, is Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Before his appointment as Senior
Vice President, Mr. McCoy held the office of Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary from 1995 to 1998. Before his appointment as Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary, Mr. McCoy was with the law firm of O'Melveny and Myers
where he practiced law, first as an associate and then as a partner, from 1977
to 1995.

     Robert J. Rivet--Mr. Rivet, 46, is Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Rivet joined AMD in
September 2000. Before joining AMD, he was Senior Vice President and Director of
Finance of the Semiconductor Products Sector of Motorola. Mr. Rivet served in a
number of positions in Motorola Semiconductor operations since 1981, after
joining the company in 1976 as a senior financial analyst and senior accountant.

     William T. Siegle--Dr. Siegle, 62, is Senior Vice President, Technology and
Manufacturing Operations, Chief Scientist of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Dr.
Siegle was Group Vice President, Technology Development Group and Chief
Scientist from 1997 until 1998. Before his appointment as Group Vice President,
Dr. Siegle served as Vice President, Integrated Technology Department and Chief
Scientist since 1990.

     Stan Winvick--Mr. Winvick, 61, is Senior Vice President, Human Resources
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Before his appointment as Senior Vice President
in 1991, Mr. Winvick served as Vice President, Human Resources since 1980.

     Stephen J. Zelencik--Mr. Zelencik, 66, is Senior Vice President, Market
Development of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Before his appointment as Senior
Vice President, Market Development in 1999, Mr. Zelencik served as Senior Vice
President and Co-Chief Marketing Officer. From 1979 until 1998, Mr. Zelencik was
Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Executive.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Our principal engineering, manufacturing, warehouse and administrative
facilities comprise approximately 5.1 million square feet and are located in
Sunnyvale, California; Austin, Texas; and Dresden, Germany. Over 3.1 million
square feet of this space is in buildings we own.

     We lease property containing two buildings with an aggregate of
approximately 364,000 square feet, located on 45.6 acres of land in Sunnyvale,
California (One AMD Place). The lease term ends in December 2018. In 2000, we
renewed a lease agreement for approximately 175,000 square feet located adjacent
to One AMD Place (known as AMD Square) to be used by the product groups as
engineering offices and laboratory facilities.

     We also own or lease facilities containing approximately 1.2 million square
feet for our operations in Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and China. We lease
approximately 15 acres of land in Suzhou, China for our assembly and test
facility. We acquired approximately 115 acres of land in Dresden, Germany for
Dresden Fab 30. Dresden Fab 30 is encumbered by a lien securing borrowings of
AMD Saxony. Fab 25, our fabrication facility in Austin, Texas, is encumbered by
a lien securing our 11% Senior Secured Notes due 2003.

     We lease 24 sales offices in North America, 11 sales offices in Asia
Pacific, 10 sales offices in Europe and one sales office in South America for
our direct sales force. These offices are located in cities in major electronics
markets where concentrations of our customers are located.

     Leases covering our facilities expire over terms of generally one to 20
years. We currently do not anticipate significant difficulty in either retaining
occupancy of any of our facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or
through month-to-month occupancy, or replacing them with equivalent facilities.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     1. Environmental Matters. Since 1981, we have discovered, investigated and
begun remediation of three sites where releases from underground chemical tanks
at our facilities in Santa Clara County, California, adversely affected the
groundwater. The chemicals released into the groundwater were commonly in use in
the semiconductor industry in the wafer fabrication process prior to 1979. At
least one of the released chemicals (which we no longer use) has been identified
as a probable carcinogen.

     In 1991, we received four Final Site Clean-up Requirements Orders from the
California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Francisco Bay Region
relating to the three sites. One of the orders named us as well as TRW
Microwave, Inc. and Philips Semiconductors Corporation. In January 1999, we
entered into a settlement agreement with Philips whereby Philips assumed costs
allocated to us under this order, although we are responsible for these costs in
the event that Philips does not fulfill its obligations under the settlement
agreement. Another of the orders named us as well as National Semiconductor
Corporation.

     The three sites in Santa Clara County are on the National Priorities List
(Superfund). If we fail to satisfy federal compliance requirements or
inadequately perform the compliance measures, the government (1) can bring an
action to enforce compliance or (2) can undertake the desired response actions
itself and later bring an action to recover its costs, and penalties, which is
up to three times the costs of clean-up activities, if appropriate. The statute
of limitations has been tolled on the claims of landowners adjacent to the Santa
Clara County Superfund sites for causes of action such as negligence, nuisance
and trespass.

     We have computed and recorded the estimated environmental liability in
accordance with applicable accounting rules and have not recorded any potential
insurance recoveries in determining the estimated costs of the cleanup. The
amount of environmental charges to earnings has not been material during any of
the last three fiscal years. We believe that the potential liability, if any, in
excess of amounts already accrued with respect to the foregoing environmental
matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

     We received a notice dated October 14, 1998 from the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) indicating that the EPA has determined AMD to be a
potentially responsible party that arranged for disposal of hazardous substances
at a site located in Santa Barbara County, California. We are currently in
settlement discussions with the EPA and believe that any settlement will not
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations.

     2. Securities Class Action Litigation. Between March 10, 1999 and April 22,
1999, AMD and certain individual officers of AMD were named as defendants in a
number of lawsuits that were consolidated under Ellis Investment Co., Ltd., et
al v. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. et al. Following appointment of lead counsel,
the case was re-named Hall et al. v. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., et al. On
September 5, 2000, the parties stipulated to, and the United States District
Court for the Northern District of California entered, an order whereby all
plaintiffs' claims and causes of action against all defendants were voluntarily
dismissed without prejudice.

     3. Other Matters. We are a defendant or plaintiff in various other actions
which arose in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the
ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
our business.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.


                                    PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Our common stock (symbol AMD) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The
information regarding market price range, dividend information and number of
holders of our common stock appearing under the captions "Supplementary
Financial Data" and "Financial Summary" on pages 46 and 47 of our 2000 Annual
Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.



     During 2000, we did not make any sales of our equity securities which were
not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


     The information regarding selected financial data for the fiscal years 1996
through 2000, under the caption "Financial Summary" on page 47 of our 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS


     The information appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 8 through
22 of our 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK


     The information appearing under the caption "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure about Market Risk" on pages 14 through 15 of our 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


     Our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2000 and December 26,
1999 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, and
the report of independent auditors thereon, and our unaudited quarterly
financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2000, appearing on
pages 23 through 45 of our 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


     Not applicable.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


     The information under the captions "Item 1--Election of Directors" and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our Proxy Statement
for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 26, 2001 (2001 Proxy
Statement) is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


     The information under the captions "Directors' Compensation and Benefits,"
"Committees and Meetings of the Board of Directors," "Executive Compensation,"
"Employment Agreements" and "Change in Control Arrangements" in our 2001 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT


     The information under the caption "Principal Stockholders and Security
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" in our 2001 Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS


     The information under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Party
Transactions" in our 2001 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



     With the exception of the information specifically incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K from our 2001 Proxy
Statement, our 2001 Proxy Statement shall not be deemed to be filed as part of
this report. Without limiting the foregoing, the information under the captions
"Board Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation," "Board Audit
Committee Report" and "Performance Graph" in our 2001 Proxy Statement is not
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)

1. Financial Statements


     The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule covered by the Report of
Independent Auditors are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following is a list of such financial
statements:




2. Financial Statement Schedule

     The financial statement schedule listed below is filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



     All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedules, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or Notes thereto. With the exception of the information
specifically incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed
filed as part of this report.



3. Exhibits

     The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part
of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The
following is a list of such Exhibits:

  Exhibit
   Number                          Description of Exhibits
   ------                          -----------------------

  2.1      Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 20, 1995, between AMD and
           NexGen, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2 to AMD's Quarterly Report for the
           period ended October 1, 1995, and as amended as Exhibit 2.1 to AMD's
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 17, 1996, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  2.2      Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated January
           11, 1996, between AMD and NexGen, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.2 to AMD's
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 17, 1996, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  2.3      Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of April 21, 1999, by and between
           Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and AMD, filed as Exhibit 2.3 to
           AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 1999, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  2.3(a)   First Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 7,
           1999, between AMD and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, filed as
           Exhibit 2.3 (a) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
           ended June 27, 1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  2.3(b)   Second Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 15,
           1999, between AMD and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, filed as
           Exhibit 2.3 (b) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
           ended June 27, 1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  2.4      Reorganization Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2000, by and between
           AMD and BoldCo, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2.1 to AMD's Current Report on
           Form 8-K dated May 21, 2000, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  2.5      Recapitalization Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2000, by and between
           BraveTwo Acquisition, L.L.C., AMD and BoldCo, Inc., filed as Exhibit
           2.2 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 21, 2000, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  3.1      Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
           AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           fiscal year ended December 26, 1999, is hereby incorporated by
           reference.

  3.2      By-Laws, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.2 to AMD's Annual Report on
           Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1999, are hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  3.3      Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
           dated May 25, 2000, filed as Exhibit 3.3 to AMD's Quarterly Report on
           Form 10-Q for the period ended July 2, 2000, is hereby incorporated
           by reference.

  4.1      Form of AMD 11% Senior Secured Notes due August 1, 2003, filed as
           Exhibit 4.1 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13,
           1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.2(a)   Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1996, between AMD and United States
           Trust Company of New York, as trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to AMD's
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.

  4.2(b)   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1999, between
           AMD and United States Trust Company of New York, as trustee, filed as
           Exhibit 4.2(b) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
           year ended December 27, 1998, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.2(c)   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 8, 1999, between AMD
           and United States Trust Company of New York, as trustee, filed as
           Exhibit 4.2(c) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
           year ended December 26, 1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.



 Exhibit
 Number                              Description of Exhibits
 ------                              -----------------------

  4.2(d)    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 28, 2000, between AMD
            and the United States Trust Company, as trustee, filed as Exhibit
            4.2(d) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
            October 1, 2000, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.3       Intercreditor and Collateral Agent Agreement, dated as of August 1,
            1996, among United States Trust Company of New York, as trustee,
            Bank of America NT&SA, as agent for the banks under the Credit
            Agreement of July 19, 1996, and IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company,
            filed as Exhibit 4.3 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
            August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.4       Payment, Reimbursement and Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August
            1, 1996, between AMD and IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company, filed as
            Exhibit 4.4 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13,
            1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.5       Deed of Trust, Assignment, Security Agreement and Financing
            Statement, dated as of August 1, 1996, among AMD, as grantor, IBJ
            Schroder Bank & Trust Company, as grantee, and Shelley W. Austin, as
            trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.5 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K
            dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.6       Security Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, among AMD and IBJ
            Schroder Bank & Trust Company, as agent for United States Trust
            Company of New York, as trustee, and Bank of America NT&SA, as agent
            for banks, filed as Exhibit 4.6 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K
            dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.7       Lease, Option to Purchase and Put Option Agreement, dated as of
            August 1, 1996, between AMD, as lessor, and AMD Texas Properties,
            LLC, as lessee, filed as Exhibit 4.7 to AMD's Current Report on Form
            8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.8       Reciprocal Easement Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, between
            AMD and AMD Texas Properties, LLC, filed as Exhibit 4.8 to AMD's
            Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby
            incorporated by reference.

  4.9       Sublease Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, between AMD, as
            sublessee, and AMD Texas Properties, LLC, as sublessor, filed as
            Exhibit 4.9 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13,
            1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  4.10      Indenture, dated as of May 8, 1998, by and between AMD and The Bank
            of New York, as trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to AMD's Current
            Report on Form 8-K dated May 8, 1998, is hereby incorporated by
            reference.

  4.11      Officers' Certificate, dated as of May 8, 1998, filed as Exhibit 4.2
            to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 8, 1998, is hereby
            incorporated by reference.

  4.12      Form of 6% Convertible Subordinated Note due 2005, filed as Exhibit
            4.3 to AMD's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 8, 1998, is hereby
            incorporated by reference.

  4.13      AMD hereby agrees to file on request of the Commission a copy of all
            instruments not otherwise filed with respect to AMD's long-term debt
            or any of its subsidiaries for which the total amount of securities
            authorized under such instruments does not exceed ten percent of the
            total assets of AMD and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

 *10.1      AMD 1982 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
            AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
            26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.2      AMD 1986 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
            AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
            26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.



  Exhibit
  Number                             Description of Exhibits
  ------                             -----------------------

 *10.3    AMD 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended.

 *10.4    AMD 1980 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
          10.4 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.5    AMD 1986 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
          10.5 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.6    Forms of Stock Option Agreements, filed as Exhibit 10.8 to AMD's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
          1991, are hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.7    Form of Limited Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement, filed as Exhibit
          4.11 to AMD's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-26266), is
          hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.8    AMD 1987 Restricted Stock Award Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
          10.10 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.9    Forms of Restricted Stock Agreements, filed as Exhibit 10.11 to AMD's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
          1991, are hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.10   Resolution of Board of Directors on September 9, 1981, regarding
          acceleration of vesting of all outstanding stock options and
          associated limited stock appreciation rights held by officers under
          certain circumstances, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to AMD's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1985, is hereby
          incorporated by reference.

 *10.12   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of November 3,
          2000, between AMD and W. J. Sanders III.

 *10.13   AMD 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.

 *10.14   AMD's U.S. Stock Option Program for options granted after April 25,
          2000.

 *10.15   Vice President Incentive Program.

 *10.16   AMD Executive Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.14(b) to AMD's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996, is
          hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.17   Form of Bonus Deferral Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.12 to AMD's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 1986,
          is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.18   Form of Executive Deferral Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to AMD's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
          1989, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.19   Director Deferral Agreement of R. Gene Brown, filed as Exhibit 10.18
          to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1989, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  10.20   Intellectual Property Agreements with Intel Corporation, filed as
          Exhibit 10.21 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended December 29, 1991, are hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.21   Form of Indemnification Agreements with former officers of Monolithic
          Memories, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.22 to AMD's Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1987, is hereby
          incorporated by reference.

 *10.22   Form of Management Continuity Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.25 to
          AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          29, 1991, is hereby incorporated by reference.



  Exhibit
  Number                          Description of Exhibits
  ------                          -----------------------

 **10.23(a)    Joint Venture Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu Limited, filed as
               Exhibit 10.27(a) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(b)    Technology Cross-License Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu
               Limited, filed as Exhibit 10.27(b) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to
               its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(c)    AMD Investment Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu Limited, filed
               as Exhibit 10.27(c) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993, is
               hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(d)    Fujitsu Investment Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu Limited,
               filed as Exhibit 10.27(d) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(e)    First Amendment to Fujitsu Investment Agreement dated April 28,
               1995, filed as Exhibit 10.23(e) to AMD's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

   10.23(f)    Second Amendment to Fujitsu Investment Agreement, dated February
               27, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.23 (f) to AMD's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(g)    Joint Venture License Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu Limited,
               filed as Exhibit 10.27(e) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(h)    Joint Development Agreement between AMD and Fujitsu Limited,
               filed as Exhibit 10.27(f) to AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1993,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.23(i)    Fujitsu Joint Development Agreement Amendment, filed as Exhibit
               10.23(g) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended March 31, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  *10.24       AMD's Stock Option Program for Employees Outside the U.S. for
               options granted after April 25, 2000.

 **10.25       Technology Development and License Agreement, dated as of October
               1, 1998, among AMD and its subsidiaries and Motorola, Inc. and
               its subsidiaries, filed as Exhibit 10.25 to AMD's Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998, is
               hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.25(a)    Amendment to the Technology Development and License Agreement,
               entered into as of October 1, 1998, by AMD and its subsidiaries
               and Motorola, Inc. and its subsidiaries, filed as Exhibit
               10.25(a) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 26, 1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.25(b)    Amendment 2 to the Technology Development and License Agreement,
               entered into as of October 1, 1998, by AMD and its subsidiaries
               and Motorola, Inc. and its subsidiaries, filed as Exhibit
               10.25(b) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
               ended July 2, 2000, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.26       Patent License Agreement, dated as of December 3, 1998, between
               AMD and Motorola, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.26 to AMD's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.27       Lease Agreement, dated as of December 22, 1998, between AMD and
               Delaware Chip LLC, filed as Exhibit 10.27 to AMD's Annual Report
               on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1998, is
               hereby incorporated by reference.



  Exhibit
  Number                           Description of Exhibits
- ---------                          -----------------------

 *10.28(a)     AMD Executive Savings Plan (Amendment and Restatement, effective
               as of August 1, 1993), filed as Exhibit 10.30 to AMD's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.28(b)     First Amendment to the AMD Executive Savings Plan (as amended and
               restated, effective as of August 1, 1993), filed as Exhibit
               10.28(b) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.28(c)     Second Amendment to the AMD Executive Savings Plan (as amended
               and restated, effective as of August 1, 1993), filed as Exhibit
               10.28(b) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.29        Form of Split Dollar Agreement, as amended, filed as Exhibit
               10.31 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 25, 1994, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.30        Form of Collateral Security Assignment Agreement, filed as
               Exhibit 10.32 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by
               reference.

 *10.31        Forms of Stock Option Agreements to the 1992 Stock Incentive
               Plan, filed as Exhibit 4.3 to AMD's Registration Statement on
               Form S-8 (No. 33-46577), are hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.32        1992 United Kingdom Share Option Scheme, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
               AMD's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-46577), is
               hereby incorporated by reference.

**10.33        AMD 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.33 to AMD's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27,
               1998, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.34        Form of indemnification agreements with officers and directors of
               AMD, filed as Exhibit 10.38 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

 *10.36        1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc., as amended, filed as Exhibit
               10.36 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.

**10.37        Patent Cross-License Agreement dated December 20, 1995, between
               AMD and Intel Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.38 to AMD's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

  10.38        Contract for Transfer of the Right to the Use of Land between AMD
               (Suzhou) Limited and China-Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park
               Development Co., Ltd., filed as Exhibit 10.39 to AMD's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.39        NexGen, Inc. 1987 Employee Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 99.3 to
               Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to AMD's Registration
               Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64911), is hereby incorporated by
               reference.

 *10.40        1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. (assumed by AMD), as amended,
               filed as Exhibit 10.37 to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the period ended June 30, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
               reference.

 *10.41        Form of indemnity agreement between NexGen, Inc. and its
               directors and officers, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registration
               Statement of NexGen, Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), is hereby
               incorporated by reference.



 Exhibit
 Number                         Description of Exhibits
 ------                         -----------------------

 **10.45        Agreement for Purchase of IBM Products between IBM and NexGen,
                Inc. dated June 2, 1994, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
                Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-
                90750), is hereby incorporated by reference .

 **10.48(a)     C-4 Technology Transfer and Licensing Agreement dated June 11,
                1996, between AMD and IBM Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.48 to
                AMD's Amendment No. 1 to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for
                the period ended September 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.

 **10.48(b)     Amendment No. 1 to the C-4 Technology Transfer and Licensing
                Agreement, dated as of February 23, 1997, between AMD and
                International Business Machine Corporation, filed as Exhibit
                10.48(a) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.49(a)     Design and Build Agreement dated November 15, 1996, between AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Meissner and Wurst GmbH, filed as
                Exhibit 10.49(a) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.

   10.49(b)     Amendment to Design and Build Agreement dated January 16, 1997,
                between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Meissner and Wurst
                GmbH filed as Exhibit 10.49(b) to AMD's Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.

 **10.50(a-1)   Syndicated Loan Agreement with Schedules 1, 2 and 17, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, among AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, Dresdner
                Bank AG and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A., filed as Exhibit
                10.50(a) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.50(a-2)   Supplemental Agreement to the Syndicated Loan Agreement dated
                February 6, 1998, among AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, Dresdner
                Bank AG and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A., filed as Exhibit
                10.50(a-2) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A (No.1) for the
                fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.

   10.50(a-3)   Supplemental Agreement No. 2 to the Syndicated Loan Agreement as
                of March 11, 1997, dated as of June 29, 1999, among AMD Saxony
                Manufacturing GmbH, Dresdner Bank AG and Dresdner Bank
                Luxembourg S.A., filed as Exhibit 10.50 (a-3) to AMD's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 27, 1999, is
                hereby incorporated by reference.

***10.50(a-4)   Amendment Agreement No. 3 to the Syndicated Loan Agreement,
                dated as of February 20, 2001, among AMD Saxony Manufacturing
                GmbH, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, Dresdner Bank AG, Dresdner Bank
                Luxembourg S.A and the banks party thereto.

 **10.50(b)     Determination Regarding the Request for a Guarantee by AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(b) to AMD's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30,
                1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.50(c)     AMD Subsidy Agreement, between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and
                Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit 10.50(c) to AMD's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is
                hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.50(d)     Subsidy Agreement, dated February 12, 1997, between Sachsische
                Aufbaubank and Dresdner Bank AG, with Appendices 1, 2a, 2b, 3
                and 4, filed as Exhibit 10.50(d) to AMD's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.

   10.50(e)     AMD, Inc. Guaranty, dated as of March 11, 1997, among AMD,
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(e) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(f-1)   Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997, among
                AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(f) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.



    Exhibit
    Number                         Description of Exhibits
    ------                         -----------------------

   10.50(f-2)   First Amendment to Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of
                February 6, 1998, among AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and
                Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit 10.50(f-2) to AMD's Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997,
                is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(f-3)   Second Amendment to Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of
                June 29, 1999, among AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, Dresdner Bank
                AG and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A., filed as Exhibit 10.50 (f-
                3) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                June 27, 1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

***10.50(f-4)   Third Amendment to Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of
                February 20, 2001, among AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH,
                Dresdner Bank AG and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A.

   10.50(g-1)   Sponsors' Loan Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997, among AMD,
                AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(g) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.

   10.50(g-2)   First Amendment to Sponsors' Loan Agreement, dated as of
                February 6, 1998, among AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(g-2) to AMD's
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(g-3)   Second Amendment to Sponsors' Loan Agreement, dated as of June
                25, 1999, among AMD and AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD Saxony
                Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(g-3) to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 27,
                1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(h)     Sponsors' Subordination Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997,
                among AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, AMD Saxony Manufacturing
                GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit 10.50(h) to AMD's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30,
                1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(i)     Sponsors' Guaranty, dated as of March 11, 1997, among AMD, AMD
                Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(i) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

 **10.50(j)     AMD Holding Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 11,
                1997, among AMD and AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(j) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

***10.50(j-1)   First Amendment to AMD Holding Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated
                as of February 20, 2001, between AMD and AMD Saxony Holding
                GmbH.

 **10.50(k)     AMD Holding Research, Design and Development Agreement, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD,
                filed as Exhibit 10.50(k) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.

 **10.50(l-1)   AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 11,
                1997, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD Saxony
                Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(l) to AMD's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is
                hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(l-2)   First Amendment to AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated
                as of February 6, 1998, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50 (l-2) to AMD's
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

***10.50(l-3)   Second Amendment to AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated
                as of February 20, 2001, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH.

 **10.50(m)     AMD Saxonia Research, Design and Development Agreement, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and AMD
                Saxony Holding GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(m) to AMD's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30,
                1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

   10.50(n)     License Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, among AMD, AMD Saxony
                Holding GmbH and AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(n) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
                ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.



  Exhibit
  Number                         Description of Exhibits
  ------                         -----------------------

  10.50(o)     AMD, Inc. Subordination Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, among
               AMD, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as
               Exhibit 10.50(o) to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
               period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.

**10.50(p-1)   ISDA Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, between AMD and AMD Saxony
               Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(p) to AMD's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is
               hereby incorporated by reference.

**10.50(p-2)   Confirmation to ISDA Agreement, dated February 6, 1998, between
               AMD and AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit
               10.50(p-2) to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
               reference.

  10.51        Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of July 13, 1999, among
               AMD, AMD International Sales and Service, Ltd. and Bank of
               America NT&SA as agent, filed as Exhibit 10.51 to AMD's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 27, 1999, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

  10.51(a)     First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of July
               30, 1999, among AMD, AMD International Sales and Service, Ltd.
               and Bank of America NT&SA, as agent, filed as Exhibit 10.51(a) to
               AMD's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 27,
               1999, is hereby incorporated by reference.

  10.51(a-1)   Second Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of
               February 12, 2001, among AMD, AMD International Sales and
               Service, Ltd. and Bank of America N.A. (formerly Bank of America
               NT&SA), as agent.

 *10.52        Agreement, dated as of June 16, 1999, between AMD and Richard
               Previte, filed as Exhibit 10.52 to AMD's Quarterly Report on Form
               10-Q for the period ended June 27, 1999, is hereby incorporated
               by reference.

 *10.54        Management Continuity Agreement, between AMD and Robert R. Herb,
               filed as Exhibit 10.54 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended December 26, 1999, is hereby incorporated
               by reference.

 *10.55        Employment Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2000, between AMD
               and Hector de J. Ruiz, filed as Exhibit 10.55 to AMD's Annual
               Report on form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1999,
               is hereby incorporated by reference.

 *10.56        Form of indemnification agreements with officers and directors of
               AMD, filed as Exhibit 10.56 to AMD's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 26, 1999, is hereby
               incorporated by reference.

 *10.57        Employment Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2000, between AMD
               and Robert J. Rivet, filed as Exhibit 10.57 to AMD's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1, 2000, is
               hereby incorporated by reference.

  13           Pages 8 through 47 of AMD's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders,
               which have been incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV of
               this annual report.

  21           List of AMD subsidiaries.

  23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, refer to page
               F-2 herein.

  24           Power of Attorney.

______________
  *  Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
     filed as an Exhibit to comply with Item 14(a)(3) of Form 10-K.
 **  Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these
     Exhibits.
***  Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to certain portions
     of this Exhibit.



AMD will furnish a copy of any exhibit on request and payment of AMD's
reasonable expenses of furnishing such exhibit.


(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     1.   A Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 11, 2000 reporting under
          Item 5 - Other Events was filed announcing AMD's third quarter
          earnings.

     2.   A Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 11, 2000 reporting under
          Item 5 - Other Events was filed with respect to expected financial
          results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2000.



                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.

March 19, 2001

                                  By:       /s/ Robert J. Rivet
                                     ---------------------------------
                                                Robert J. Rivet
                                             Senior Vice President,
                                            Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons, on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                 COVERED BY THE REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

                            ITEM 14(a) (1) and (2)

     The information under the following captions, which is included in AMD's
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, a copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit 13, is incorporated herein by reference:



     All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedules, or because the information required is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or Notes thereto. With the exception of the information
specifically incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, our 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed
filed as part of this report.

                                      F-1


              CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



     We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. of our report dated January 9, 2001 with
respect to the consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
included in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders of Advanced Micro Devices,
Inc.

     Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the
management of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
Registration Statements of our report dated January 9, 2001 with respect to the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and our
report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial
statement schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc.

     .  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-16095) pertaining to the
        Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1987 Restricted Stock Award Plan;

     .  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 (Nos. 33-39747, 333-33855 and 333-
        77495) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1991 Employee
        Stock Purchase Plan;

     .  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 (Nos. 33-10319, 33-26266, 33-36596
        and 33-46578) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1982 and
        1986 Stock Option Plans and the 1980 and 1986 Stock Appreciation Rights
        Plans;

     .  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 (Nos. 33-46577 and 33-55107)
        pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1992 Stock Incentive
        Plan;

     .  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-00969) pertaining to the
        Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and to
        the 1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc;

     .  Registration Statements on Forms S-8 (Nos. 333-04797 and 333-57525)
        pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive
        Plan;

     .  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-68005) pertaining to the
        Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;

     .  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-47243), as amended,
        pertaining to debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, equity
        warrants and debt warrants issued or issuable by Advanced Micro Devices,
        Inc.;

     .  Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8
        (No. 33-95888-99) pertaining to the 1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. and
        the NexGen, Inc. 1987 Employee Stock Plan;

     .  Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8
        (No. 33-92688-99) pertaining to the 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan of
        NexGen, Inc.;

     .  Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to the Registration Statement
        on Form S-4 (No. 33-64911) pertaining to the 1995 Employee Stock
        Purchase Plan of NexGen, Inc., the 1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. and
        the NexGen, Inc. 1987 Employee Stock Plan; and

     .  Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 on Form S-3 to the Registration Statement
        on Form S-4 (No. 33-64911) pertaining to common stock issuable to
        certain warrantholders.


                                                      /s/ Ernst & Young LLP


San Jose, California
March 15, 2001

                                      F-2


                                  SCHEDULE II

                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                        Years Ended December 27, 1998,
                    December 26, 1999 and December 31, 2000
                                (in thousands)



(1) Accounts (written off) recovered, net.

                                      F-3















                                                                     AMD-22934-A

