
10-K
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                      ------------------------------------
                                   Form 10-K



                          CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                 (314) 965-0555
                          ---------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                     CLASS A COMMON STOCK, $.001 PAR VALUE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ ]

Aggregate market value of outstanding Class A Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant at March 28, 2000 was $189.3 million based on
the prices as computed by the NASDAQ National Market system as of that date. For
purposes of this calculation only, affiliates are deemed to be directors and
executive officers of the registrant and entities they control.

There were 222,039,746 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding as of March
28, 2000. There were 50,000 shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding as of the
same date.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Proxy Statement for the
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
            FORM 10-K -- FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                               


     This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 1999.
This Annual Report modifies and supersedes documents filed prior to this Annual
Report. The SEC allows us to "incorporate by reference" information that we file
with the SEC, which means that we can disclose important information to you by
referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference
is considered to be part of this Annual Report. In addition, information that we
file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede
information contained in this Annual Report. In this Annual Report, "we," "us"
and "our" refer to Charter Communications, Inc., Charter Communications Holding
Company, LLC and its subsidiaries.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements regarding, among
other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both business and financial.
Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or
suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure
you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations.
Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and
assumptions. Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual
Report may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as "believe,"
"expect," "anticipate," "should," "planned," "estimated" and "potential," among
others. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the forward-looking statements we make in this Annual Report are set forth
in this Annual Report and in other reports or documents that we file from time
to time with the SEC and include, but are not limited to:

     -  Our plans to achieve growth by offering new products and services and
        through acquisitions and swaps;

     -  Our anticipated capital expenditures for our planned upgrades and the
        ability to fund these expenditures;

     -  Our beliefs regarding the effects of governmental regulation on our
        business; and

     -  Our ability to effectively compete in a highly competitive environment.

     All forward-looking statements attributable to us or a person acting on our
behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by those cautionary statements.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

                                  INTRODUCTION

     We are the fourth largest operator of cable systems in the United States,
serving approximately 6.2 million customers, after giving effect to our pending
acquisition.

     Charter Communications, Inc. is a holding company whose principal asset is
an approximate 40% equity interest, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, and a
100% voting interest in Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC. Charter
Communications, Inc.'s only business is to act as the sole manager of Charter
Communications Holding Company and its subsidiaries. As sole manager, Charter
Communications, Inc. controls the affairs of Charter Communications Holding
Company and its subsidiaries.

INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK

     In November 1999, Charter Communications, Inc. completed an initial public
offering of 195,500,000 shares of its Class A common stock for total net
proceeds of $3.57 billion. At that time, Paul G. Allen purchased 50,000 shares
of high vote Class B common stock of Charter Communications, Inc. at the initial
public offering price. In addition, at the closing of the initial public
offering, Mr. Allen, through Vulcan Cable III Inc. invested $750 million in cash
to purchase membership units from Charter Communications Holding Company at the
initial public offering price, net of underwriters' discounts. These membership
units are exchangeable at any time for shares of our Class A common stock. All
of the proceeds from the public offering were used to purchase membership units
in Charter Communications Holding Company, which used a portion of the funds
received from us, along with funds received from Vulcan Cable III Inc. to pay a
portion of the purchase prices of our Fanch, Falcon, Avalon and Bresnan
acquisitions.



OUTSTANDING EQUITY INTERESTS OF CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND CHARTER
COMMUNICATIONS HOLDING COMPANY

     The following table sets forth information as of March 28, 1999 with
respect to the outstanding shares of common stock of Charter Communications,
Inc. and membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company as of the
same date and pro forma for the exchange by certain sellers in the Bresnan
acquisition of preferred membership units in an indirect subsidiary of Charter
Communications Holding Company for common membership units in Charter
Communications Holding Company on a one-for-one basis. All of the membership
units in Charter Communications Holding Company are exchangeable for shares of
Charter Communications, Inc. Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis at any
time.



                        CHARTER ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

     Our organizational structure is complex. Consistent with the table above,
the equity ownership percentages in Charter Communications Holding Company
assume the exchange by certain sellers in the Bresnan acquisition of preferred
membership units in an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications Holding
Company for common membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company on
a one-for-one basis.

     OWNERSHIP OF CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.  Mr. Allen owns less than 1% of
the outstanding capital stock of Charter Communications, Inc. and controls
approximately 93.6% of the voting power of Charter Communications, Inc.'s
capital stock. The remaining equity interest and voting control are held by the
public. Mr. Allen's voting control arises from his ownership of Charter
Communications, Inc.'s high vote Class B common stock, plus his ownership of
Vulcan Cable III Inc., which owns membership units in Charter Communications
Holding Company that are exchangeable for shares of high vote Class B common
stock of Charter Communications, Inc.

     VULCAN CABLE III INC.  Mr. Allen owns 100% of the equity of Vulcan Cable
III. Vulcan Cable III has a 18.2% equity interest and no voting rights in
Charter Communications Holding Company. In August 1999, Mr. Allen, through
Vulcan Cable III, contributed to Charter Communications Holding Company $500
million in cash. In September 1999, he contributed an additional $825 million
through Vulcan Cable III of which approximately $644.3 million was in cash and
approximately $180.7 million was in the form of equity interests Vulcan Cable
III acquired in connection with the Rifkin acquisition. Upon each of these
contributions, Vulcan Cable III received Charter Communications Holding Company
membership units at a price per membership unit of $20.73. In addition, in
November 1999, Mr. Allen, through Vulcan Cable III, made a $750 million cash
equity contribution to Charter Communications Holding Company for which Vulcan
Cable III received additional membership units at a price per membership unit of
$18.24.

     CHARTER INVESTMENT, INC.  Charter Investment, Inc. has a 37.2% equity
interest and no voting rights in Charter Communications Holding Company. Mr.
Allen owns approximately 96.8% of the outstanding stock of



Charter Investment, Inc. The remaining 3.2% equity is beneficially owned by our
founders, Jerald L. Kent, Barry L. Babcock and Howard L. Wood.

     BRESNAN SELLERS.  Under the terms of the Bresnan acquisition, some of the
sellers received a portion of their purchase price in Charter Communications
Holding Company common membership units rather than in cash. These common
membership units are exchangeable for shares of Charter Communications, Inc.
Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. In addition, certain other Bresnan
sellers received a portion of the purchase price in preferred membership units
in an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications, Inc. The preferred
membership units are exchangeable for common Charter Communications Holding
Company at any time on a one-for-one basis. These equity holders as a group have
a 6.7% equity interest and no voting rights in Charter Communications Holding
Company.

     CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDING COMPANY, LLC.  Charter Communications
Holding Company is the direct 100% parent of Charter Communications Holdings.
Charter Communications Holding Company is owned 37.9% by Charter Communications,
Inc., 18.2% by Vulcan Cable III Inc., 37.2% by Charter Investment, Inc. and 6.7%
by certain sellers in our Bresnan acquisition. All of the outstanding units in
Charter Communications Holding Company are exchangeable for shares of Class A
common stock of Charter Communications, Inc. on a one-for-one basis at any time.
Charter Communications, Inc. has 100% of the voting power of Charter
Communications Holding Company.

     CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, LLC.  Charter Holdings is a co-issuer of
$3.575 billion aggregate principal of notes issued in March 1999 (referred to as
the March 1999 Charter Holdings notes) and $1.532 billion aggregate principal
amount of notes issued in January 2000 (referred to as the January 2000 Charter
Holdings notes). Charter Holdings owns 100% of Charter Capital, the co-issuer of
the notes. Charter Holdings also owns the various subsidiaries that conduct all
of our cable operations, including the Charter, Falcon, Fanch, Avalon and
Bresnan companies described below.

     CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS CAPITAL CORPORATION.  Charter Capital is a
wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Holdings and a co-issuer of the notes
described in the preceding paragraph.

     CHARTER COMPANIES.  These companies are subsidiaries of Charter Holdings
and own or operate all of the cable systems originally managed by Charter
Investment, Inc. (namely Charter Communications Properties Holdings, LLC, CCA
Group and CharterComm Holdings, LLC), the cable systems obtained through the
merger of Marcus Cable Holdings, LLC with Charter Holdings and the cable systems
we acquired in 1999 and 2000, other than the Falcon, Fanch, Avalon, and Bresnan
systems described below. Charter Operating, a direct subsidiary of Charter
Holdings, owns all of the Charter companies' operating subsidiaries and is the
borrower under the Charter Operating credit facilities. The Charter Companies
also include the issuers of the outstanding publicly held notes of Renaissance.

     FALCON COMPANIES.  These companies are subsidiaries of Charter Holdings and
own or operate all of the cable systems acquired in the Falcon acquisition and
Falcon Cable Communications, which is the borrower under the Falcon credit
facilities.

     FANCH COMPANIES.  These companies are subsidiaries of Charter Holdings and
own or operate all of the cable systems acquired in the Fanch acquisition and CC
VI Operating, LLC, which is the borrower under the Fanch credit facilities.

     AVALON COMPANIES.  These companies are subsidiaries of Charter Holdings and
own or operate all of the cable systems acquired in the Avalon acquisition,
including CC Michigan, LLC and CC New England, LLC, which are the borrowers
under the Avalon credit facilities. CC V Holdings, LLC (formerly Avalon Cable
LLC) and CC V Holdings Finance, Inc. (formerly Avalon Cable Finance Holdings,
Inc.) are co-issuers of the outstanding publicly held Avalon notes.

     BRESNAN COMPANIES.  These companies are subsidiaries of Charter Holdings
and own or operate all of the cable systems acquired in the Bresnan acquisition
and CC VIII Operating, LLC, which is the borrower under the Bresnan credit
facilities.



                                  OUR BUSINESS

     We offer a full range of traditional cable television services. Our service
offerings include the following programming packages:

     -  basic programming;

     -  expanded basic programming;

     -  premium service; and

     -  pay-per-view television programming.

     We have begun to offer digital cable television services to customers in
some of our systems. Digital technology enables cable operators to increase the
number of channels a cable system can carry by permitting a significantly
increased number of video signals to be transmitted over a cable system's
existing bandwidth. Bandwidth is a measure of the information-carrying capacity.
It is the range of usable frequencies that can be carried by a cable system.

     We have also started to introduce a number of other new products and
services, including interactive video programming, which allows information to
flow in both directions, and high-speed Internet access to the World Wide Web.
We are also exploring opportunities in telephony, which will integrate telephone
services with the Internet through the use of cable. The introduction of these
new services represents an important step toward the realization of our Wired
World(TM) vision, where cable's ability to transmit voice, video and data at
high speeds will enable it to serve as the primary platform for the delivery of
new services to the home and workplace. We are accelerating the upgrade of our
systems to more quickly provide these new services.

     We have grown rapidly over the past five years. During this period, our
management team has successfully completed 32 acquisitions, including twelve
acquisitions since January 1, 1999, and a merger with Marcus Holdings in April
1999. In addition, we have expanded our customer base through significant
internal growth. In 1999, our internal customer growth, without giving effect to
the cable systems we acquired during that period, was 3.1%, compared to the
national industry average of 1.8%. In 1998, our internal customer growth,
without giving effect to the cable systems we acquired in that year, was 4.8%,
more than twice the national industry average of 1.7%.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

     Our objective is to increase our operating cash flow by increasing our
customer base and the amount of cash flow per customer. To achieve this
objective, we are pursuing the following strategies:

     INTEGRATE AND IMPROVE ACQUIRED CABLE SYSTEMS.  We seek to rapidly integrate
acquired cable systems and apply our core operating strategies to raise the
financial and operating performance of these acquired systems. Our integration
process occurs in three stages:

          System Evaluation.  We conduct an extensive evaluation of each system
     we acquire. This process begins prior to reaching an agreement to purchase
     the system and focuses on the system's:

        -  demographic profile of the market as well as the number of homes
           passed and customers;

        -  business plan;

        -  customer service standards;

        -  management capabilities; and

        -  technological capacity and compatibility.

     We also evaluate opportunities to consolidate headends and billing and
other administrative functions. Based upon this evaluation, we formulate plans
for customer service centers, plant upgrades, market positioning, new product
and service launches and human resource requirements.



          Implementation of Our Core Operating Strategies. To achieve our high
     standards for customer satisfaction and financial and operating
     performance, we:

        -  attract and retain high quality local management;

        -  empower local managers with a high degree of day-to-day operational
           autonomy;

        -  set key financial and operating benchmarks for management to meet,
           such as revenue and cash flow per subscriber, subscriber growth,
           customer service and technical standards; and

        -  provide incentives to all employees through grants of cash bonuses
           and equity options.

          Ongoing Support and Monitoring. We provide local managers with
     regional and corporate management guidance, marketing and other support for
     implementation of their business plans. We monitor performance of our
     acquired cable systems on a frequent basis to ensure that performance goals
     can be met.

     The turn-around in our Fort Worth system, which our management team began
to manage in October 1998, is an example of our success in integrating newly
acquired cable systems into our operations. We introduced a customer care team
that has worked closely with city governments to improve customer service and
local government relations, and each of our customer service representatives
attended a training program. We also conducted extensive training programs for
our technical and engineering, dispatch, sales and support, and management
personnel. We held a series of sales events and service demonstrations to
increase customer awareness and enhance our community exposure and reputation.
We reduced the new employee hiring process from two to three weeks to three to
five days. As a result of these and other actions taken by the Charter
management team, relations with local franchising authorities are greatly
improved, customer service has been significantly enhanced, and the number of
customers and operating cash flow have increased.

     OFFER NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.  We intend to expand the array of products
and services we offer to our customers to implement our Wired World vision.
Using digital technology, we plan to offer additional channels on our existing
service tiers, create new service tiers, introduce multiple packages of premium
services and increase the number of pay-per-view channels. We also plan to add
digital music services and interactive program guides which are comprehensive
guides to television program listings that can be accessed by network, time,
date or programming genre. In addition, we have begun to roll out advanced
services, including interactive video programming and high-speed Internet
access, and we are currently exploring opportunities in telephony. We have
entered into agreements with several providers of high-speed Internet and other
interactive services, including High-Speed Access Corp., EarthLink Network,
Inc., Excite@Home Corporation, Convergence.com, WorldGate Communications, Inc.
and Wink Communications, Inc. We have recently entered into a joint venture with
Vulcan Ventures Inc. and Go2Net, Inc. to deliver high-speed Internet portal
services to our customers.

     UPGRADE THE BANDWIDTH CAPACITY OF OUR SYSTEMS.  We plan to spend
approximately $5.6 billion from 2000 to 2002 for capital expenditures.
Approximately $3.1 billion will be used to upgrade our systems to bandwidth
capacity of 550 megahertz or greater. Upgrading to at least 550 megahertz of
bandwidth capacity will allow us to:

     -  offer advanced services, such as digital television, Internet access and
        other interactive services;

     -  increase channel capacity up to 82 analog channels, or even more
        programming channels if some of our bandwidth is used for digital
        services; and

     -  permit two-way communication which will give our customers the ability
        to send and receive signals over the cable system so that high-speed
        cable services, such as Internet access, will not require a separate
        telephone line and will enable our systems to provide telephony
        services.

     The remaining capital will be spent on plant extensions, new services,
converters and system maintenance.



     As of December 31, 1999, approximately 45% of our customers were served by
cable systems with at least 550 megahertz bandwidth capacity, and approximately
30% of our customers had two-way communication capability. By year-end 2003,
including the Bresnan cable systems and our pending acquisition, we expect that
approximately 95% of our customers will be served by cable systems with at least
550 megahertz bandwidth capacity and two-way communication capability and
approximately 86% of our customers will be served by cable systems with at least
750 megahertz bandwidth and two-way communication capability.

     Our planned upgrades are designed to reduce the number of headends from
1,257 at year-end 1999, including the Bresnan acquisition and our pending
acquisition, to 459 at year-end 2003. Reducing the number of headends will
reduce headend equipment and maintenance expenditures and, together with other
upgrades, will provide enhanced picture quality and system reliability. In
addition, by year-end 2003, including the pending acquisition, we expect that
approximately 90% of our customers will be served by headends serving at least
10,000 customers.

     MAXIMIZE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION.  To maximize customer satisfaction, we
operate our business to provide reliable, high-quality products and services,
superior customer service and attractive programming choices at reasonable
rates. We have implemented stringent internal customer service standards which
we believe meet or exceed those established by the National Cable Television
Association, the Washington, D.C.-based trade association for the cable
television industry. We believe that our customer service efforts have
contributed to our superior customer growth, and will strengthen the Charter
brand name and increase acceptance of our new products and services.

     EMPLOY INNOVATIVE MARKETING.  We have developed and successfully
implemented a variety of innovative marketing techniques to attract new
customers and increase revenue per customer. Our marketing efforts focus on
tailoring Charter-branded entertainment and information services that provide
value, choice, convenience and quality to our customers. We use demographic
"cluster codes" to address messages to target audiences through direct mail and
telemarketing. Cluster codes identify customers by marketing type such as young
professionals, retirees or families. In addition, we promote our services on
radio, in local newspapers and by door-to-door selling. In many of our systems,
we offer discounts to customers who purchase multiple premium services such as
Home Box Office or Showtime. We also have a coordinated strategy for retaining
customers that includes televised retention advertising to reinforce the link
between quality service and the Charter brand name and to encourage customers to
purchase higher service levels. Successful implementation of these marketing
techniques has contributed to internal customer growth rates in excess of the
cable industry average in each year from 1996 through 1999 for the systems we
owned in each of those years. We have begun to implement our marketing programs
in all of the systems we have recently acquired.

     EMPHASIZE LOCAL MANAGEMENT AUTONOMY WHILE PROVIDING REGIONAL AND CORPORATE
SUPPORT AND CENTRALIZED FINANCIAL CONTROLS.  Our local cable systems are
organized into twelve operating regions. A regional management team oversees
multiple local system operations in each region. We believe that a strong
management presence at the local system level:

     -  improves our customer service;

     -  increases our ability to respond to customer needs and programming
        preferences;

     -  reduces the need for a large centralized corporate staff;

     -  fosters good relations with local governmental authorities; and

     -  strengthens community relations.

     Our regional management teams work closely with both local managers and
senior management in our corporate office to develop budgets and coordinate
marketing, programming, purchasing and engineering activities. Our centralized
financial management enables us to set financial and operating benchmarks and
monitor performance on an ongoing basis. In order to attract and retain high
quality managers at the local and regional operating levels, we provide a high
degree of operational autonomy and accountability along with cash and
equity-based compensation. Charter Communications Holding Company has a plan to
distribute to directors, consultants and substantially all employees, including
members of corporate management and key


regional and system-level management personnel, options exercisable for up to
25,009,798 Charter Communications Holding Company membership units that are
automatically exchanged for shares of Charter Communications, Inc. Class A
common stock on a one-for-one basis.

     CONCENTRATE OUR SYSTEMS IN TIGHTER GEOGRAPHICAL CLUSTERS.  To improve
operating margins and increase operating efficiencies, we regularly seek to
improve the geographic clustering of our cable systems by selectively swapping
our cable systems for systems of other cable operators or acquiring systems in
close proximity to our systems. We believe that by concentrating our systems in
clusters, we will be able to generate higher growth in revenues and operating
cash flow. Clustering enables us to consolidate headends and spread fixed costs
over a larger subscriber base. Charter Communications, Inc. and AT&T Broadband &
Internet Services have entered into a non-binding letter of intent to exchange
certain cable systems (referred to as the "Swap Transaction"). If completed, the
Swap Transaction will allow us to improve the clustering of our cable systems in
certain key markets. We are negotiating with several other cable operators whose
systems we consider to be potential acquisition or swapping candidates.

                                 RECENT EVENTS

ACQUISITIONS IN 1999 AND 2000

     Since January 1, 1999, we have completed twelve acquisitions of cable
systems. A summary of information regarding these acquisitions is as follows:



- ---------------

(a) As part of the transaction with InterMedia, we agreed to "swap" some of our
    non-strategic cable systems located in Indiana, Montana, Utah and northern
    Kentucky, representing 142,000 basic customers. We transferred cable systems
    with 112,000 customers to InterMedia in connection with this swap in October



1999. The remaining Indiana cable system, with customers totaling 30,000, was
transferred in March 2000 after receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals.

(b) Includes revenues for all swapped InterMedia systems, except the retained
    Indiana system, for the nine months ended September 30, 1999, the date of
    the transfer of these systems, and includes revenues for the Indiana system
    for the year ended December 31, 1999.

(c) Includes approximately 5,400 customers served by cable systems that we
    acquired from certain former affiliates of Avalon in February 2000. The $845
    million purchase price for Avalon includes the purchase price for these
    systems of approximately $13 million.

(d) Includes revenues of approximately $1.6 million related to cable systems
    acquired from certain former affiliates of Avalon.

(e) Includes approximately 19,400 customers served by cable systems acquired by
    Bresnan since December 31, 1999.

(f) Includes revenues of approximately $7.1 million related to the cable systems
    acquired by Bresnan since December 31, 1999.

     ACQUISITION CRITERIA.  Our primary criterion in considering acquisition and
swapping opportunities is the financial return that we expect to ultimately
realize. We consider each acquisition in the context of our overall existing and
planned operations, focusing particularly on the impact on our size and scope
and the ability to reinforce our clustering strategy, either directly or through
future swaps or acquisitions. Other specific factors we consider in acquiring a
cable system are:

     -  demographic profile of the market as well as the number of homes passed
        and customers within the system;

     -  per customer revenues and operating cash flow and opportunities to
        increase these financial benchmarks;

     -  proximity to our existing cable systems or the potential for developing
        new clusters of systems;

     -  the technological state of such system; and

     -  the level of competition within the local market.

     We believe that there are significant advantages in increasing the size and
scope of our operations, including:

     -  improved economies of scale in management, marketing, customer service,
        billing and other administrative functions;

     -  reduced costs for our cable plants and our infrastructure in general;

     -  increased leverage for negotiating programming contracts; and

     -  increased influence on the evolution of important new technologies
        affecting our business.

     We believe that as a result of our acquisition strategy and our systems
upgrade we will be well positioned to have cable systems with economies of scale
sufficient to allow us to execute our strategy to expand the array of products
and services that we offer to our customers as we implement our Wired World
vision. We will continue to explore acquisitions and swaps of cable systems that
would further complement our existing cable systems.

ACQUISITIONS COMPLETED IN 1999 AND 2000

     MERGER WITH MARCUS HOLDINGS.  On April 23, 1998, Mr. Allen acquired
approximately 99% of the non-voting economic interests in Marcus Cable Company,
L.L.C., and agreed to acquire the remaining interests in Marcus Cable. The
aggregate purchase price was approximately $1.4 billion, excluding $1.8 billion
in assumed liabilities. On February 22, 1999, Marcus Holdings was formed, and
all of Mr. Allen's interests in Marcus Cable were transferred to Marcus Holdings
on March 15, 1999. On March 31, 1999, Mr. Allen completed the acquisition of all
remaining interests of Marcus Cable. On April 7, 1999, the holding company
parent of the Marcus companies, Marcus Holdings, merged into Charter Holdings,
which was the surviving entity of the



merger. The subsidiaries of Marcus Holdings became subsidiaries of Charter
Operating. During the period of obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals for
the transaction, the Marcus systems came under common management with our
subsidiaries in October 1998 pursuant to the terms of a management agreement.

     The cable systems we acquired in the merger with Marcus are located in
Wisconsin, Tennessee, North Carolina, Georgia, California, Alabama and Texas,
has approximately 1,001,000 customers and is operated as part of our North
Central, Southeast, Southern California, Gulf Coast and Metroplex regions. For
the year ended December 31, 1999, Marcus had revenues of approximately $511.9
million.

     RENAISSANCE.  In April 1999, one of Charter Holdings' subsidiaries
purchased Renaissance Media Group LLC for approximately $459 million, consisting
of $348 million in cash and $111 million of assumed debt. Renaissance owns cable
systems located in Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee, has approximately
134,000 customers and is operated as part of our Gulf Coast and Mid-South
regions. For the year ended December 31, 1999, Renaissance had revenues of
approximately $62.4 million.

     AMERICAN CABLE.  In May 1999, one of Charter Holdings' subsidiaries
purchased American Cable Entertainment, LLC for approximately $240 million.
American Cable owns cable systems located in California serving approximately
69,000 customers and is operated as part of our Southern California region. For
the year ended December 31, 1999, American Cable had revenues of approximately
$37.2 million.

     GREATER MEDIA SYSTEMS.  In June 1999, one of Charter Holdings' subsidiaries
purchased certain cable systems of Greater Media Cablevision Inc. for
approximately $500 million. The Greater Media systems are located in
Massachusetts, have approximately 176,000 customers and are operated as part of
our Northeast Region. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the Greater Media
systems had revenues of approximately $85.9 million.

     HELICON.  In July 1999, one of Charter Holdings' subsidiaries acquired
Helicon Partners I, L.P. and affiliates for approximately $550 million,
consisting of $410 million in cash, $115 million of assumed debt, and $25
million in the form of preferred limited liability company interest of
Charter-Helicon LLC, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Communications,
LLC. Helicon owns cable systems located in Alabama, Georgia, New Hampshire,
North Carolina, West Virginia, South Carolina, Tennessee, Pennsylvania,
Louisiana and Vermont, and has approximately 171,000 customers. For the year
ended December 31, 1999, Helicon had revenues of approximately $85.2 million.

     VISTA AND CABLE SATELLITE.  One of Charter Communications Holdings'
subsidiaries acquired Vista Broadband Communications, LLC in July 1999 and
acquired a cable system of Cable Satellite of South Miami, Inc. in August 1999.
These cable systems are located in Georgia and southern Florida and serve a
total of approximately 35,000 customers. The aggregate purchase price for these
acquisitions was approximately $148 million in cash. For the year ended December
31, 1999, these systems had revenues of approximately $19.0 million.

     RIFKIN.  In September 1999, Charter Operating acquired Rifkin Acquisition
Partners L.L.L.P. and InterLink Communications Partners, LLLP for a purchase
price of approximately $1.46 billion, consisting of $1.2 billion in cash, $133.3
million in equity in Charter Communications Holding Company and $128.0 million
in assumed debt.

     Rifkin owns cable systems primarily in Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana,
Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, serving approximately 463,000 customers.
For the year ended December 31, 1999, Rifkin had revenues of approximately
$219.9 million.

     INTERMEDIA SYSTEMS.  In October 1999, Charter Communications, LLC purchased
certain cable systems of InterMedia Capital Partners IV, L.P., InterMedia
Partners and their affiliates in exchange for approximately $873 million in cash
and certain of our cable systems. The InterMedia systems serve approximately
420,000 customers in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee. As
part of this transaction, we agreed to "swap" some of our non-strategic cable
systems serving approximately 142,000 customers in Indiana, Montana, Utah and
northern Kentucky.



     At the closing, we retained a cable system located in Indiana serving
approximately 30,000 customers for which we were unable to timely obtain the
necessary regulatory approvals of the system transfer. Such approval was
subsequently obtained and the Indiana system assets were transferred in March
2000.

     This transaction, including the transfer of the retained Indiana system,
resulted in a net increase of 278,000 customers concentrated in our Southeast
and Mid-South regions. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the InterMedia
systems had revenues of approximately $179.3 million and $126.2 million on a pro
forma basis reflecting disposed systems.

     The cable systems acquired in the Bresnan acquisition are located in
Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Nebraska and serve approximately 686,000
customers. For the year ended December 31, 1999, these systems had revenues of
approximately $1682.4 million.

     FANCH.  In November 1999, Charter Communications Holding Company purchased
the partnership interests of Fanch Cablevision of Indiana, L.P., specified
assets of Cooney Cable Associates of Ohio, Limited Partnership, Fanch-JV2 Master
Limited Partnership, Mark Twain Cablevision Limited Partnership, Fanch-
Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership, North Texas Cablevision, Ltd., Post
Cablevision of Texas, Limited Partnership and Spring Green Communications, L.P.
and the stock of Tioga Cable Company, Inc., Cable Systems, Inc. and, indirectly,
Hornell Television Service, Inc. for a total combined purchase price of
approximately $2.4 billion in cash.

     The cable systems acquired in this acquisition are located in Colorado,
Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas
and Wisconsin, and serve approximately 528,000 customers. For the year ended
December 31, 1999, these systems had revenues of approximately $218.2 million.

     FALCON.  In November 1999, Charter Communications Holding Company purchased
partnership interests in Falcon Communications, L.P. from Falcon Holding Group,
L.P. and TCI Falcon Holdings, LLC, interests in a number of Falcon entities held
by Falcon Cable Trust and Falcon Holding Group, Inc., specified interests in
Enstar Communications Corporation and Enstar Finance Company, LLC held by Falcon
Holding Group, L.P., and specified interests in Adlink held by DHN Inc.

     The purchase price for the acquisition was approximately $3.5 billion,
consisting of cash, $550 million in common membership units in Charter
Communications Holding Company issued to certain of the Falcon sellers and $1.7
billion in assumed debt.

     The Falcon cable systems are located in California and the Pacific
Northwest, Missouri, North Carolina, Alabama and Georgia and serve approximately
955,000 customers. For the year ended December 31, 1999, these systems had
revenues of approximately $427.7 million.

     AVALON.  In November 1999, Charter Communications Holding Company purchased
directly and indirectly all of the equity interests of Avalon Cable of Michigan
Holdings, Inc. from Avalon Cable Holdings LLC and Avalon Investors, L.L.C. for
approximately $832 million, consisting of $558.2 million in cash and $273.8
million in assumed notes.

     Avalon Cable operates primarily in Michigan and New England and serves
approximately 252,000 customers. For the year ended December 31, 1999, Avalon
Cable had revenues of approximately $109.9 million.

     BRESNAN.  In February 2000, Charter Communications Holding Company
purchased Bresnan Communications Company Limited Partnership for a total
purchase price of approximately $3.1 billion, consisting of cash, $1.0 billion
in membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company and an indirect
subsidiary of Charter Communications Holding Company and $964.4 million in
assumed debt.

     The cable systems acquired in the Bresnan acquisition are located in
Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Nebraska and serve approximately 686,000
customers. For the year ended December 31, 1999, these systems and systems
acquired by Bresnan since December 31, 1999 had revenues of approximately $290.7
million.



PENDING TRANSACTION

     In March 2000, we entered into an agreement providing for the merger of
Cablevision of Michigan, Inc., the indirect owner of a cable system in
Kalamazoo, Michigan with and into us. As a result of this merger, we will become
the indirect owner of the Kalamazoo system. The merger consideration of
approximately $173 million will be paid in Class A common stock of Charter
Communications, Inc. After the merger, we will contribute 100% of the equity
interests of the direct owner of the Kalamazoo system to Charter Communications
Holding Company in exchange for membership units. Charter Communications Holding
Company will contribute the equity interests to Charter Holdings, which will in
turn contribute the equity interests to a subsidiary. The Kalamazoo cable system
has approximately 49,000 customers and had revenue of approximately $31.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1999. We anticipate that this
transaction will close in the third quarter of 2000.

POSSIBLE SWAP TRANSACTION

     On December 1, 1999, we entered into a non-binding letter of intent with
AT&T Broadband & Internet Services to exchange certain cable systems. The Swap
Transaction would involve cable systems owned by AT&T located in municipalities
in Alabama, Georgia, Illinois and Missouri serving approximately 705,000
customers and certain of our cable systems located in municipalities in
California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Texas and other states serving
approximately 631,000 customers. As part of the Swap Transaction, we would pay
AT&T approximately $108 million in cash, which represents the difference in the
agreed values of the systems being exchanged. The Swap Transaction is subject to
the negotiation and execution of a definitive exchange agreement, regulatory
approvals and other conditions typical in transactions of this type. We cannot
assure you that the Swap Transaction will be completed.

                             PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     We offer our customers a full array of traditional cable television
services and programming and we have begun to offer new and advanced high
bandwidth services such as high-speed Internet access. We plan to continually
enhance and upgrade these services, including adding new programming and other
telecommunications services, and will continue to position cable television as
an essential service.

     TRADITIONAL CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES.  As of December 31, 1999, pro forma
for the Bresnan acquisition, approximately 85% of our customers subscribed to
both "basic" and "expanded basic" service and generally receive a line-up of
between 33 and 85 channels of television programming, depending on the bandwidth
capacity of the system. Customers who pay additional amounts can also subscribe
to additional channels, either individually or in packages of several channels,
as add-ons to the basic channels. As of December 31, 1999, more than 22% of our
customers subscribe to premium channels, with additional customers subscribing
to other special add-on packages. We tailor both our basic channel line-up and
our additional channel offerings to each system according to demographics,
programming preferences, competition, price sensitivity and local regulation.

     Our traditional cable television service offerings include the following:

     -  BASIC CABLE.  All of our customers receive basic cable services which
        generally consist of local broadcast television, local community
        programming, including governmental and public access and limited
        satellite programming. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the average
        monthly fee was $13.54 for our basic service.

     -  EXPANDED BASIC CABLE.  This expanded tier includes a group of
        satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels such as Entertainment and
        Sports Programming Network (ESPN), Cable News Network (CNN) and Lifetime
        Television, in addition to the basic channel line-up. For the year ended
        December 31, 1999, the average monthly fee was $14.88 for our expanded
        basic service.

     -  PREMIUM CHANNELS.  These channels provide unedited, commercial-free
        movies, sports and other special event entertainment programming. Home
        Box Office, Cinemax and Showtime are typical



       examples. We offer subscriptions to these channels either individually or
       in packages. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the average monthly
       fee was $6.15 per premium subscription.

     -  PAY-PER-VIEW.  These channels allow customers to pay to view a single
        showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event
        or music concerts on an unedited, commercial-free basis. We currently
        charge a fee that ranges from $2.95 to $8.95 for movies. For special
        events, such as championship boxing matches, we have charged a fee of up
        to $54.95.

     We have employed a variety of targeted marketing techniques to attract new
customers by focusing on delivering value, choice, convenience and quality. We
employ direct mail and telemarketing, using demographic "cluster codes" to
target specific messages to target audiences. In many of our systems, we offer
discounts to customers who purchase premium services on a limited trial basis in
order to encourage a higher level of service subscription. We also have a
coordinated strategy for retaining customers that includes televised retention
advertising to reinforce the decision to subscribe and to encourage customers to
purchase higher service levels.

     NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.  A variety of emerging technologies and the
rapid growth of Internet usage have presented us with substantial opportunities
to provide new or expanded products and services to our customers and to expand
our sources of revenue. The desire for such new technologies and the use of the
Internet by businesses in particular have triggered a significant increase in
our commercial market penetration. As a result, we are in the process of
introducing a variety of new or expanded products and services beyond the
traditional offerings of analog television programming for the benefit of both
our residential and commercial customers. These new products and services
include:

     -  digital television and its related enhancements;

     -  high-speed Internet access via cable modems installed in personal
        computers;

     -  WorldGate television-based Internet access, which allows customers to
        access the Internet through the use of our two-way capable cable plant
        without the need for a personal computer;

     -  interactive services, such as Wink, which adds interactivity and
        electronic commerce opportunities to traditional programming and
        advertising; and

     -  telephony and data transmission services, which are private network
        services interconnecting locations for a customer.

     Cable television's high bandwidth allows cable to be well positioned to
deliver a multitude of channels and/or new and advanced products and services.
We believe that this high bandwidth will be a key factor in the successful
delivery of these products and services.

     DIGITAL TELEVISION.  As part of upgrading our systems, we are installing
headend equipment capable of delivering digitally encoded cable transmissions to
a two-way digital-capable set-top converter box in the customer's home. This
digital connection offers significant advantages. For example, we can compress
the digital signal to allow the transmission of up to twelve digital channels in
the bandwidth normally used by one analog channel. This will allow us to
increase both programming and service offerings, including near video-on-demand
for pay-per-view customers. We expect to increase the amount of these services
purchased by our customers.

     Digital services customers may receive a mix of additional television
programming, an electronic program guide and up to 40 channels of digital music.
The additional programming falls into four categories which are targeted toward
specific markets:

     -  additional expanded basic channels, which are marketed in systems
        primarily serving rural communities;

     -  additional premium channels, which are marketed in systems serving both
        rural and urban communities;



     -  "multiplexes" of premium channels to which a customer previously
        subscribed, such as multiple channels of HBO or Showtime, which are
        varied as to time of broadcast or programming content theme and which
        are marketed in systems serving both rural and urban communities; and

     -  additional pay-per-view programming, such as more pay-per-view options
        and/or frequent showings of the most popular films to provide near
        video-on-demand, which are more heavily marketed in systems primarily
        serving both rural and urban communities.

     As part of our pricing strategy for digital services, we have established a
retail rate of $4.95 to $8.95 per month for the digital set-top converter and
the delivery of "multiplexes" of premium services, additional pay-per-view
channels, digital music and an electronic programming guide. Some of our systems
also offer additional expanded basic tiers of service. These tiers of services
retail for $3.95 per month each or $8.95 for all three tiers. As of December 31,
1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, more than 155,400 of our customers
subscribed to the digital service offered in 85 markets. As of December 31,
1999, pro forma for the acquisition of Bresnan, approximately 4.7 million of our
customers were served by cable systems capable of delivering digital services.
By year-end 2000, we anticipate that digital services will pass approximately
7.0 million homes.

     INTERNET ACCESS.  We currently provide Internet access to our customers by
two principal means:

     -  via cable modems attached to personal computers, either directly or
        through an outsourcing contract with an Internet service provider; and

     -  through television access, via a service such as WorldGate.

     We also provide Internet access in some markets through traditional dial-up
telephone modems, using a third party service provider.

     The principal advantage of cable Internet connections is the high speed of
data transfer over a cable system. We currently offer these services to our
residential customers over coaxial cable at speeds that can range up to
approximately 50 times the speed of a conventional telephone modem. Furthermore,
a two-way communication cable system using a hybrid fiber optic/coaxial
structure can support the entire connection at cable modem speeds without the
need for a separate telephone line. If the cable system only supports one-way
signals from the headend to the customer, the customer must use a separate
telephone line in order to send signals to the provider, although such customer
still receives the benefit of high speed cable access when downloading
information, which is the primary reason for using cable as an Internet
connection. In addition to Internet access over our traditional coaxial system,
we also provide our commercial customers fiber optic cable access at a price
that we believe is less than the price offered by the telephone companies.

     In the past, cable Internet connections have provided customers with widely
varying access speeds because each customer accessed the Internet by sending and
receiving data through a node. Users connecting simultaneously through a single
node share the bandwidth of that node, so that users' connection speeds may
diminish as additional users connect through the same node. To induce users to
switch to our Internet services, we guarantee our cable modem customers the
minimum access speed selected from several speed options we offer. We also
provide higher guaranteed access speeds for customers willing to pay an
additional cost. In order to meet these guarantees, we are increasing the
bandwidth of our systems and "splitting" nodes easily and cost-effectively to
reduce the number of customers per node.

     CABLE MODEM-BASED INTERNET ACCESS.  We have deployed cable modem-based
Internet access services in 84 markets including: Los Angeles, California; St.
Louis, Missouri; and Fort Worth, Texas.



     As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, we provided
Internet access service to approximately 65,600 residential customers and 280
commercial customers. The following table indicates the projected availability,
pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, of cable modem-based Internet access
services in our systems, as of the dates indicated. Only a small percentage of
our customers currently subscribe to these services.



     We have a relationship with High Speed Access Corp. to offer Internet
access in some of our smaller systems. High Speed Access also provides Internet
access services to our customers under the Charter Pipeline brand name. Although
the Internet access service is provided by High Speed Access, the Internet
"domain name" of our customer's e-mail address and web site, if any, is
"Charter.net," allowing the customer to switch or expand to our other Internet
services without a change of e-mail address.

     High Speed Access provides three different tiers of service to us. The base
tier is similar to our arrangements with EarthLink and Excite@Home, as described
below. The turnkey tier bears all capital, operating and marketing costs of
providing the service, and seeks to build economies of scale in our smaller
systems that we cannot efficiently build ourselves by simultaneously contracting
to provide the same services to other small geographically contiguous systems.
The third tier allows for a-la carte selection of services between the base tier
and the turnkey tier. As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan
acquisition, we have made Internet access available to approximately 1,128,300
of our homes passed, and approximately 15,200 customers have signed up for the
service. During 2000, we anticipate making available for service an additional
73 markets to High Speed Access, covering approximately 2,052,200 additional
homes passed.

     We have an agreement with EarthLink Network, Inc., an independent Internet
service provider, to provide service marketed and branded Charter Pipeline(TM),
which is a cable modem-based, high-speed Internet access service we offer.
EarthLink and MindSpring Enterprises, Inc. merged in February 2000 creating the
second-largest Internet service provider (ISP) in the United States. We
currently charge a monthly usage fee of between $24.95 and $39.95. Our customers
have the option to lease a cable modem for $10 to $15 a month or to purchase a
modem for between $200 and $300. As of December 31, 1999, we made EarthLink
Internet access available to approximately 708,700 homes passed and had
approximately 10,500 customers who subscribed to this service.

     We have a revenue sharing agreement with Excite@Home, under which
Excite@Home provides Internet service to customers in our systems serving Fort
Worth, University Park and Highland Park, Texas. The Excite@Home network
provides high-speed, cable modem-based Internet access using our cable
infrastructure. As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition,
we have made Excite@Home available to approximately 867,800 of our homes passed
and had approximately 18,200 customers who subscribed to this service.

     We also have services agreements with Convergence.com under which
Convergence.com provides Internet service to customers in systems acquired from
Rifkin. The Convergence.com network provides high-speed, cable modem-based
Internet access using our cable infrastructure. As of December 31, 1999, pro
forma



for the Bresnan acquisition, we have made available Convergence.com service to
approximately 263,200 homes passed and had approximately 7,100 customers who
subscribed to this service.

     We actively market our cable modem service to businesses in each one of our
systems where we have the capability to offer such service. Our marketing
efforts are often door-to-door, and we have established a separate division
whose function is to make businesses aware that this type of Internet access is
available through us. We also provide several virtual local area networks for
municipal and educational facilities in our Los Angeles cluster including
California Institute of Technology located in Pasadena, the City of Pasadena and
the City of West Covina.

     TV-BASED INTERNET ACCESS.  We have a non-exclusive agreement with WorldGate
to provide its TV-based e-mail and Internet access to our cable customers.
WorldGate's technology is only available to cable systems with two-way
capability. WorldGate offers easy, low-cost Internet access to customers at
connection speeds ranging up to 128 kilobits per second. For a monthly fee, we
provide our customers with e-mail and Internet access that does not require the
use of a PC, an existing or additional telephone line, or any additional
equipment. Instead, the customer accesses the Internet through the set-top box,
which the customer already has on his television set, and a wireless keyboard,
that is provided with the service and which interfaces with the box. WorldGate
works on advanced analog and digital converters and, therefore, can be installed
utilizing advanced analog converters already deployed. In contrast, other
converter-based, non-PC Internet access products require a digital platform and
a digital converter prior to installation.

     Customers who opt for television-based Internet access are generally
first-time Internet users who prefer this more user-friendly interface. Although
the WorldGate service bears the WorldGate brand name, the Internet domain names
of the customers who use this service is "Charter.net." This allows the
customers to switch or expand to our other Internet services without a change of
e-mail address.

     We first offered WorldGate to customers on the upgraded portion of our
systems in St. Louis in April 1998. We are also currently offering this service
in five other systems. In addition, we plan to introduce it in four additional
systems during 2000. As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan
acquisition, we provided WorldGate Internet service to approximately 7,100
customers.

     INTERNET PORTAL SERVICES.  On October 1, 1999, Charter Communications
Holding Company, Vulcan Ventures, an entity controlled by Mr. Allen, and Go2Net,
Inc. entered into a joint venture to form Broadband Partners, Inc. Broadband
will provide access to the Internet through a "portal" to our customers on the
digital service tier. A portal is an Internet web site that serves as a user's
initial point of entry to the World Wide Web. By offering selected content,
services and links to other web sites, a portal guides and directs users through
the World Wide Web. In addition, the portal generates revenues from advertising
on its own web pages and by sharing revenues generated by linked or featured web
sites.

     Revenue splits and other economic terms in this arrangement will be at
least as favorable to us as terms between Broadband and any other parties.
Charter Communications Holding Company has agreed to use Broadband's portal
services exclusively for an initial six-year period that will begin when the
portal services are launched, except that Charter Communications Holding
Company's existing agreements with other Internet high-speed portal services and
High Speed Access may run for their current term to the extent that such
agreements do not allow for the carriage of content provided by Charter
Communications Holding Company or Vulcan Ventures. The joint venture is for an
initial 25-year term, subject to successive five-year renewals by mutual
consent. Vulcan Ventures will own 55.2%, Charter Communications Holding Company
will own 24.9% and Go2Net will own 19.9% of Broadband's equity interests, and
Vulcan Ventures will have voting control over the Broadband entity. Broadband's
board of directors will consist of three directors designated by Vulcan Ventures
and one by each of Charter Communications Holding Company and Go2Net.

     Each of Broadband's investors will be obligated to provide their pro rata
share of funding for Broadband's operations and capital expenditures, except
that Vulcan Ventures will fund our portion of Broadband's expenses for the first
four years and will fund Go2Net's portion of Broadband's expenses to the extent
Go2Net's portion exceeds budget for the first four years.



     We believe that our participation in the Broadband joint venture will
facilitate the delivery of a broad array of Internet products and services to
our customers over the television through the use of an advanced digital set-top
box or through the personal computer.

     The Broadband joint venture has not yet established a timetable for a
commercial launch of its portal services. However, we anticipate that alpha and
beta testing of this Internet portal service will be completed during 2000. We
do not anticipate that our participation in the joint venture will have a
material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations for
the foreseeable future.

     WINK-ENHANCED PROGRAMMING.  We have formed a relationship with Wink, which
sells technology to embed interactive features, such as additional information
and statistics about a program or the option to order an advertised product,
into programming and advertisements. A customer with a Wink-enabled set-top box
and a Wink-enabled cable provider sees an icon flash on the screen when
additional Wink features are available to enhance a program or advertisement. By
pressing the select button on a standard remote control, a viewer of a
Wink-enhanced program is able to access additional information regarding such
program, including, for example, information on prior episodes or the program's
characters. A viewer watching an advertisement would be able to access
additional information regarding the advertised product and may also be able to
utilize the two-way transmission features to order a product. We have bundled
Wink's services with our traditional cable services in both our advanced analog
and digital platforms. Wink's services are provided free of charge. A company
controlled by Mr. Allen has made an equity investment in Wink.

     Various programming networks, including CNN, NBC, ESPN, HBO, Showtime,
Lifetime, VH1, the Weather Channel, and Nickelodeon, are currently producing
over 1,000 hours of Wink-enhanced programming per week. Under certain
revenue-sharing arrangements, we will modify our headend technology to allow
Wink-enabled programming to be offered on our systems. We receive fees from Wink
each time one of our customers uses Wink to request certain additional
information or order an advertised product.

     TELEPHONE SERVICES.  We expect to be able to offer cable telephony services
in the near future using our systems' direct, two-way connections to homes and
other buildings. We are exploring technologies using Internet protocol
telephony, as well as traditional switching technologies that are currently
available, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems. AT&T and other
telephone companies have already begun to pursue strategic partnering and other
programs which make it attractive for us to acquire and develop this alternative
Internet protocol technology. For the last two years, we have sold telephony
services as a competitive access provider in the state of Wisconsin through one
of our subsidiaries, and are currently looking to expand our services as a
competitive access provider into other states.

     JOINT VENTURE WITH RCN CORPORATION.  On October 1, 1999, Charter
Communications Holding Company and RCN Corporation entered into a binding term
sheet containing the principal terms of a non-exclusive joint venture to provide
a broad range of telephony services to the customers of Charter Communications
Holding Company's subsidiaries in its Los Angeles franchise territory. RCN is
engaged in the businesses of bundling residential voice, video and Internet
access operations, cable operations and certain long distance telephony
operations. RCN is developing advanced fiber optic networks to provide a wide
range of telecommunications services, including long distance telephone, video
programming and data services, such as high-speed Internet access.

     Charter Communications Holding Company will provide access to our Los
Angeles customer base and will provide the capital necessary to develop
telephony capability in Los Angeles. In addition, Charter Communications Holding
Company will provide the necessary personnel to oversee and manage the telephony
services. RCN will provide the necessary personnel and support services to
develop and implement telephony services to be provided by Charter
Communications Holding Company. We will pay RCN's fees at rates consistent with
industry market compensation. We will have all rights to the telephony business
and assets and will receive all revenues derived from the telephony business
unless the parties expand RCN's role by mutual agreement. We believe that our
telephony joint venture, together with Mr. Allen's investment in RCN, may allow
us to take advantage of RCN's telephony experience as we deliver telephone
services to our customers, although we cannot assure you that we will realize
anticipated advantages.



     The term sheet contains only the principal terms of this joint venture and
provides that the parties will enter into definitive agreements, which will
contain, among other terms, details of the compensation to be received by RCN.
To date, we have only had preliminary discussions with RCN regarding specific
operational matters and have not determined a timetable for the commencement of
services by the joint venture. We do not anticipate that this joint venture will
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in
the foreseeable future.

     ALLOCATION OF BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES WITH MR. ALLEN.  Mr. Allen and a
number of his affiliates have interests in various entities that provide
services or programming to a number of our subsidiaries. Given the diverse
nature of Mr. Allen's investment activities and interests, and to avoid the
possibility of future disputes as to potential business, Charter Communications
Holding Company and Charter Communications, Inc., under the terms of their
respective organizational documents, may not, and may not allow their
subsidiaries to, engage in any business transaction outside the cable
transmission business except for the joint venture with Broadband Partners and
incidental businesses engaged in as of the closing of the initial public
offering of Charter Communications, Inc. This restriction will remain in effect
until all of the shares of Charter Communications, Inc.'s high-vote Class B
common stock have been converted into shares of Class A common stock due to Mr.
Allen's equity ownership falling below specified threshholds.

     Should Charter Communications, Inc. or Charter Communications Holding
Company wish to pursue, or allow their subsidiaries to pursue, a business
transaction outside of the cable transmission business, it must first offer Mr.
Allen the opportunity to pursue the particular business transaction. If he
decides not to do so and consents to our engaging in the business transaction,
we will be able to do so. In any such case, the restated certificate of
incorporation and the limited liability company agreement of Charter
Communications, Inc. and Charter Communications Holding Company would be amended
accordingly to appropriately modify the current restrictions on our ability to
engage in any business other than the cable transmission business. The cable
transmission business means the business of transmitting video, audio, including
telephony, and data over cable television systems owned, operated or managed by
us from time to time. Under Charter Communications, Inc.'s restated certificate
of incorporation, the businesses of RCN Corporation, a company in which Mr.
Allen has made a significant investment, are not considered cable transmission
businesses under these provisions.

     Under Delaware corporate law, each director of Charter Communications,
Inc., including Mr. Allen, is generally required to present to Charter
Communications, Inc. any opportunity he or she may have to acquire any cable
transmission business or any company whose principal business is the ownership,
operation or management of cable transmission businesses so that we may
determine whether we wish to pursue such opportunities. However, Mr. Allen and
the other directors generally will not have an obligation to present to Charter
Communications, Inc. other business opportunities and they may exploit such
opportunities for their own account.

                                  OUR SYSTEMS

     OPERATING REGIONS.  To manage and operate our systems, we have established
two divisions that contain a total of twelve operating regions. Each of the two
divisions is managed by a Senior Vice President who reports directly to Mr.
Kent, President and Chief Executive Officer, and is responsible for overall
supervision of the operating regions within the division. Each region is managed
by a team consisting of a Senior Vice President or a Vice President supported by
operational, marketing and engineering personnel. Within each region, certain
groups of cable systems are further organized into clusters. We believe that
much of our success is attributable to our operating philosophy which emphasizes
decentralized management, with decisions being made as close to the customer as
possible.

     The Western Division is comprised of the following regions: Central, North
Central, MetroPlex (Dallas/ Fort Worth), Southern California, Northwest,
Michigan and National. The Eastern Division is comprised of the following
regions: Southeast, Mid-South, Northeast, Gulf Coast and Mid-Atlantic.



     The following table provides an overview of customer data for each of our
operating regions as of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan
acquisition, and our pending acquisition, after which our systems will pass
approximately 9.9 million homes serving approximately 6.2 million customers.

                     CUSTOMER DATA AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999



     The following discussion provides a description of our operating regions as
of December 31, 1999, giving effect to the Bresnan acquisition and our pending
acquisition.

     CENTRAL REGION.  The Central region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 428,000 customers of which approximately 255,000 customers reside
in and around St. Louis County or in adjacent areas in Illinois. The remaining
customers, approximately 173,000, reside in small to medium-sized communities in
Missouri, Illinois and Indiana.

     NORTH CENTRAL REGION.  The North Central region consists of cable systems
serving approximately 801,000 customers located throughout the states of
Wisconsin and Minnesota. Approximately 518,000 and 283,000 customers reside in
the states of Wisconsin and Minnesota, respectively. Within the state of
Wisconsin, the two largest operating clusters are located in and around Madison,
serving approximately 231,000 customers, and Fond du Lac, serving approximately
107,000 customers. Within the state of Minnesota, the two largest operating
clusters are located in and around Rochester, serving approximately 142,000
customers, and St. Cloud, serving approximately 62,000 customers.

     METROPLEX REGION.  The MetroPlex region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 188,000 customers of which approximately 132,000 are served by the
Fort Worth, Texas system.

     SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA REGION.  The Southern California region consists of
cable systems serving approximately 748,000 customers located in the state of
California, with approximately 509,000 customers in the Los Angeles metropolitan
area. These customers reside primarily in the communities of Pasadena, Alhambra,
Glendale, Long Beach and Riverside. We also have approximately 239,000 customers
in central California, principally located in the communities of San Luis
Obispo, West Sacramento and Turlock.

     NORTHWEST REGION.  The Northwest region was formed in connection with the
recent Fanch and Falcon acquisitions. After these acquisitions, the Northwest
region consists of cable systems serving approximately 371,000 customers
residing in the states of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Utah and California. The
two largest



operating clusters in the Northwest region are located in and around Kennewick,
Washington, serving approximately 85,000 customers and Medford, Oregon, serving
approximately 72,000 customers.

     MICHIGAN REGION.  The Michigan region was formed in connection with the
recent Fanch, Avalon, Falcon and Bresnan acquisitions. Pro forma for these
acquisitions and the pending acquisition, the Michigan region will consist of
cable systems serving approximately 593,000 customers. The largest operating
cluster in the Michigan region is located in and around Bay City, Michigan
serving approximately 132,000 customers.

     NATIONAL REGION.  The National region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 240,000 customers residing in small to medium-sized communities in
the states of Nebraska, Texas, New Mexico, North Dakota, Kansas, Colorado and
Oklahoma. These systems are managed from our Fort Worth, Texas regional office.

     SOUTHEAST REGION.  The Southeast region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 960,000 customers residing primarily in small to medium-sized
communities in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. There are
significant clusters of cable systems in and around the cities and counties of
Greenville/Spartanburg, South Carolina; Hickory and Asheville, North Carolina;
and Atlanta, Georgia.

     MID-SOUTH REGION.  The Mid-South region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 543,000 customers residing in the states of Tennessee and
Kentucky. The Mid-South region has a significant cluster of cable systems in and
around Kingsport, Tennessee serving approximately 124,000 customers.

     NORTHEAST REGION.  The Northeast region consists of cable systems serving
approximately 328,000 customers residing in the states of Connecticut and
Massachusetts. These systems serve the communities of Newtown and Willimantic,
Connecticut, and areas in and around Pepperell and Worcester, Massachusetts.

     GULF COAST REGION.  The Gulf Coast region was formed in connection with the
Fanch and Falcon acquisitions. The Gulf Coast region consists of cable systems
serving approximately 432,000 customers residing in the states of Louisiana,
Mississippi and Alabama. Within the state of Alabama, the two largest operating
clusters are located in and around Birmingham, serving approximately 117,000
customers, and Montgomery, serving approximately 25,000 customers.

     MID-ATLANTIC REGION.  The Mid-Atlantic region consists of cable systems
serving approximately 555,000 customers residing in the states of Virginia, West
Virginia, Vermont, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and Maryland. The Mid-Atlantic
region has significant clusters of cable systems in and around the cities of
Charleston, West Virginia, serving approximately 189,000 customers, and
Johnstown, Pennsylvania, serving approximately 77,000 customers.

     The following table describes the current technological state of our
systems and the anticipated progress of planned upgrades through 2003, based on
the percentage of our customers who will have access to the bandwidth and other
features shown:



     We have adopted the hybrid fiber coaxial cable (HFC) architecture as the
standard for our ongoing systems upgrades. HFC architecture combines the use of
fiber optic cable, which can carry hundreds of video, data and voice channels
over extended distances, with coaxial cable, which requires a more extensive
signal amplification in order to obtain the desired transmission levels for
delivering channels. In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic
cable to individual nodes serving a maximum of 500 homes or commercial
buildings. Currently, our average node size is approximately 380 homes per node.
Our HFC architecture consists of six strands of fiber to each node, with two
strands activated and four strands reserved for future services. We believe that
this network design provides high capacity and superior signal quality, and will


enable us to provide the newest forms of telecommunications services to our
customers. The primary advantages of HFC architecture over traditional coaxial
cable networks include:

     -  increased channel capacity of cable systems;

     -  reduced number of amplifiers, which are devices to compensate for signal
        loss caused by coaxial cable, needed to deliver signals from the headend
        to the home, resulting in improved signal quality and reliability;

     -  reduced number of homes that need to be connected to an individual node,
        improving the capacity of the network to provide high-speed Internet
        access and reducing the number of households affected by disruptions in
        the network; and

     -  sufficient dedicated bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids
        reverse signal interference problems that can otherwise occur when you
        have two-way communication capability.

     The HFC architecture will enable us to offer new and enhanced services,
including:

     -  additional channels and tiers;

     -  expanded pay-per-view options;

     -  high-speed Internet access;

     -  wide area networks, which permit a network of computers to be connected
        together beyond an area;

     -  point-to-point data services, which can switch data links from one point
        to another; and

     -  digital advertising insertion, which is the insertion of local, regional
        and national programming.

     The upgrades will facilitate our new services in two primary ways:

     -  Greater bandwidth allows us to send more information through our
        systems. This provides us with the capacity to provide new services in
        addition to our current services. As a result, we will be able to roll
        out digital cable programming in addition to existing analog channels
        offered to customers who do not wish to subscribe to a package of
        digital services.

     -  Enhanced design configured for two-way communication with the customer
        allows us to provide cable Internet services without telephone support
        and other interactive services, such as an interactive program guide,
        impulse pay-per-view, video-on-demand and Wink, that cannot be offered
        without upgrading the bandwidth capacity of our systems.

     This HFC architecture will also position us to offer cable telephony
services in the future, using either Internet protocol technology or
switch-based technology, another method of linking communications.

FRANCHISES

     As of December 31, 1999, our systems operated pursuant to an aggregate of
approximately 3,670 franchises, permits and similar authorizations issued by
local and state governmental authorities. As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for
the acquisition of Bresnan, we held approximately 4,215 franchises in the
aggregate. Each franchise is awarded by a governmental authority and is usually
not transferable unless the granting governmental authority consents. Most
franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material
breach. In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority a
franchise fee of up to 5.0% of gross revenues generated by cable television
services under the franchise (i.e., the maximum amount that may be charged under
the Communications Act).

     Our franchises have terms which range from four years to more than 32
years. Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we initiate renewal
proceedings with the granting authorities. This process usually takes three
years but can take a longer period of time and often involves substantial
expense. The Communications Act provides for an orderly franchise renewal
process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals. If
a renewal is withheld and the granting authority takes over operation of the
affected cable system or awards it to another party, the granting authority must
pay the existing cable operator


the "fair market value" of the system. The Communications Act also established
comprehensive renewal procedures requiring that an incumbent franchisee's
renewal application be evaluated on its own merit and not as part of a
comparative process with competing applications. In connection with the
franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable
operator make certain commitments, such as technological upgrades to the system,
which may require substantial capital expenditures. We cannot assure you,
however, that any particular franchise will be renewed or that it can be renewed
on commercially favorable terms. Our failure to obtain renewals of our
franchises, especially those in major metropolitan areas where we have the most
customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

     The following table summarizes our systems' franchises by year of
expiration, and approximate number of basic customers as of December 31, 1999.



- ---------------
(a) Includes approximately 30,000 customers served by an Indiana cable system
    that we did not transfer at the time of the InterMedia closing but
    transferred in March 2000.

     Under the 1996 Telecom Act, state and local authorities are prohibited from
limiting, restricting or conditioning the provision of telecommunications
services. They may, however, impose "competitively neutral" requirements and
manage the public rights-of-way. Granting authorities may not require a cable
operator to provide telecommunications services or facilities, other than
institutional networks, as a condition of an initial franchise grant, a
franchise renewal, or a franchise transfer. The 1996 Telecom Act also limits
franchise fees to an operator's cable-related revenues and clarifies that they
do not apply to revenues that a cable operator derives from providing new
telecommunications services.

     We believe our relations with the franchising authorities under which our
systems are operated are generally good. Substantially all of the material
franchises relating to our systems which are eligible for renewal have been
renewed or extended at or prior to their stated expiration dates.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS

     Providing a high level of service to our customers has been a central
driver of our historical success. Our emphasis on system reliability,
engineering support and superior customer satisfaction is key to our management
philosophy. In support of our commitment to customer satisfaction, we operate a
24-hour customer service hotline in most systems and offer on-time installation
and service guarantees. It is our policy that if an installer is late for a
scheduled appointment the customer receives free installation, and if a service
technician is late for a service call the customer receives a $20 credit.

     As of December 31, 1999, we maintained seventeen call centers located in
our twelve regions, which are responsible for handling call volume for more than
53% of our customers. They are staffed with dedicated personnel who provide
service to our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We believe operating
regional call centers allows us to provide "localized" service, which also
reduces overhead costs and improves customer service. We have invested
significantly in both personnel and equipment to ensure that these call centers
are professionally managed and employ state-of-the-art technology. As of
December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, we employed
approximately 2,920 customer service representatives. Our customer service
representatives receive extensive training to develop customer contact skills
and product knowledge critical to successful sales and high rates of customer
retention. As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, we
had approximately 5,490 technical employees who are encouraged to enroll in
courses and attend regularly scheduled on-site seminars conducted by equipment
manufacturers to


keep pace with the latest technological developments in the cable television
industry. We utilize surveys, focus groups and other research tools as part of
our efforts to determine and respond to customer needs. We believe that all of
this improves the overall quality of our services and the reliability of our
systems, resulting in fewer service calls from customers.

     We are also committed to fostering strong community relations in the towns
and cities our systems serve. We support many local charities and community
causes in various ways, including marketing promotions to raise money and
supplies for persons in need, and in-kind donations that include production
services and free air-time on major cable networks. Recent charity affiliations
include campaigns for "Toys for Tots," United Way, local theatre, children's
museums, local food banks and volunteer fire and ambulance corps. We also
participate in the "Cable in the Classroom" program, whereby cable television
companies throughout the United States provide schools with free cable
television service. In addition, we install and provide free basic cable service
to public schools, government buildings and non-profit hospitals in many of the
communities in which we operate. We also provide free cable modems and
high-speed Internet access to schools and public libraries in our franchise
areas. We place a special emphasis on education, and regularly award
scholarships to employees who intend to pursue courses of study in the
communications field.

SALES AND MARKETING

     PERSONNEL RESOURCES.  We have a centralized team responsible for
coordinating the marketing efforts of our individual systems. For most of our
systems with over 30,000 customers we have a dedicated marketing manager, while
smaller systems are handled regionally. We believe our success in marketing
comes in large part from new and innovative ideas and from good interaction
between our corporate office, which handles programs and administration, and our
field offices, which implement the various programs. We are also continually
monitoring the regulatory arena, customer perception, competition, pricing and
product preferences to increase our responsiveness to our customer base. Our
customer service representatives are given the incentive to use their daily
contacts with customers as opportunities to sell our new service offerings.

     MARKETING STRATEGY.  Our long-term marketing objective is to increase cash
flow through deeper market penetration and growth in revenue per household. To
achieve this objective and to position our service as an indispensable consumer
service, we are pursuing the following strategies:

     -  increase the number of rooms per household with cable;

     -  introduce new cable products and services;

     -  design product offerings to enable greater opportunity for customer
        choices;

     -  utilize "tiered" packaging strategies to promote the sale of premium
        services and niche programming;

     -  offer our customers more value through discounted bundling of products;

     -  increase the number of residential consumers who use our set-top box,
        which enables them to obtain advanced digital services such as a greater
        number of television stations and interactive services;

     -  target households based on demographic data;

     -  develop specialized programs to attract former customers, households
        that have never subscribed and illegal users of the service; and

     -  employ Charter branding of products to promote customer awareness and
        loyalty.

     We have innovative marketing programs which utilize market research on
selected systems, compare the data to national research and tailor marketing
programs for individual markets. We gather detailed customer information through
our regional marketing representatives and use the Claritas geodemographic data
program and consulting services to create unique packages of services and
marketing programs. These marketing efforts and the follow-up analysis provide
consumer information down to the city block or suburban subdivision level, which
allows us to create very targeted marketing programs.

     We seek to maximize our revenue per customer through the use of "tiered"
packaging strategies to market premium services and to develop and promote niche
programming services.



     We regularly use targeted direct mail campaigns to sell these tiers and
services to our existing customer base. We are developing an in-depth profile
database that goes beyond existing and former customers to include all homes
passed. This database information is expected to improve our targeted direct
marketing efforts, bringing us closer toward our objective of increasing total
customers as well as sales per customer for both new and existing customers. For
example, using customer profile data currently available, we are able to
identify customers who have children under a specified age and do not currently
subscribe to The Disney Channel. We then target our marketing efforts with
respect to The Disney Channel to those households. In 1998, we were chosen by
Claritas Corporation, sponsor of a national marketing competition across all
industries, as the first place winner in their media division, which includes
cable systems operations, telecommunications and newspapers, for our national
segmenting and targeted marketing program.

     In 1998, we introduced a new package of premium services. Customers receive
a substantial discount on bundled premium services of HBO, Showtime, Cinemax and
The Movie Channel. We were able to negotiate favorable terms with premium
networks, which allowed minimal impact on margins and provided substantial
volume incentives to grow the premium category. The MVP package has increased
our premium household penetration, premium revenue and cash flow. We are
currently introducing this same premium strategy in the systems we have recently
acquired.

     We expect to continue to invest significant amounts of time, effort and
financial resources in the marketing and promotion of new and existing services.
To increase customer penetration and increase the level of services used by our
customers, we use a coordinated array of marketing techniques, including
door-to-door solicitation, telemarketing, media advertising and direct mail
solicitation. We believe we have one of the cable television industry's highest
success rates in attracting and retaining customers who have never before
subscribed to cable television. Historically, these "nevers" are the most
difficult customers to attract and retain.

PROGRAMMING SUPPLY

     GENERAL.  We believe that offering a wide variety of conveniently scheduled
programming is an important factor influencing a customer's decision to
subscribe to and retain our cable services. We devote considerable resources to
obtaining access to a wide range of programming that we believe will appeal to
both existing and potential customers of basic and premium services. We rely on
extensive market research, customer demographics and local programming
preferences to determine channel offerings in each of our markets.

     PROGRAMMING SOURCES.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number
of suppliers, usually pursuant to a written contract. As of December 31, 1999,
we obtained approximately 64% of our programming through contracts entered into
directly with a programming supplier. We obtained the rest of our programming
through TeleSynergy, Inc., which offers its partners contract benefits in buying
programming by virtue of volume discounts available to a larger buying base.
Recent consolidation in the cable television industry coupled with our growth
through acquisitions has reduced the benefits associated with our participation
in TeleSynergy. As a result of our recent acquisitions, we reviewed our
programming arrangements and terminated our agreement with TeleSynergy,
effective January 31, 2000.

     Programming tends to be made available to us for a flat fee per customer.
However, some channels are available without cost to us. In connection with the
launch of a new channel, we may receive a distribution fee to support the
channel launch, a portion of which is applied to marketing expenses associated
with the channel launch. The amounts we receive in distribution fees are not
significant.

     Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time,
usually from three to ten years, and are subject to negotiated renewal. Although
longer contract terms are available, we prefer to limit contracts to three years
so that we retain flexibility to change programming and include new channels as
they become available. Some program suppliers offer marketing support or volume
discount pricing structures. Some of our programming agreements with premium
service suppliers offer cost incentives under which premium service unit prices
decline as certain premium service growth thresholds are met.



     For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the amount spent in
home shopping purchases by our customers on channels we carry. In 1998, cash
receipts totaled approximately $220,000. In 1999, cash receipts totaled
approximately $5.0 million.

     PROGRAMMING COSTS.  Our cable programming costs have increased in recent
years and are expected to continue to increase due to factors including:

     -  system acquisitions;

     -  additional programming being provided to customers;

     -  increased cost to produce or purchase cable programming; and

     -  inflationary increases.

     In every year we have operated, our costs to acquire programming have
exceeded customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases. Sports
programming costs have increased significantly over the past several years. In
addition, contracts to purchase sports programming sometimes contain built-in
cost increases for programming added during the term of the contract which we
may or may not have the option to add to our service offerings.

     Under rate regulation of the Federal Communications Commission, cable
operators may increase their rates to customers to cover increased costs for
programming, subject to certain limitations. See "Regulation and Legislation."
We believe we will, as a general matter, be able to pass increases in our
programming costs through to customers, although we cannot assure you that it
will be possible.

RATES

     Pursuant to the Federal Communications Commission's rules, we have set
rates for cable-related equipment, such as converter boxes and remote control
devices, and installation services. These rates are based on actual costs plus
an 11.25% rate of return. We have unbundled these charges from the charges for
the provision of cable service.

     Rates charged to our customers vary based on the market served and service
selected, and are typically adjusted on an annual basis. As of December 31,
1999, the average monthly fee was $13.54 for basic service and $14.88 for
expanded basic service. Regulation of the expanded basic service was eliminated
by federal law as of March 31, 1999 and such rates are now based on market
conditions. A one-time installation fee, which may be waived in part during
certain promotional periods, is charged to new customers. We believe our rate
practices are in accordance with Federal Communications Commission Guidelines
and are consistent with those prevailing in the industry generally. See
"Regulation and Legislation."

THEFT PROTECTION

     The unauthorized tapping of cable plant and the unauthorized receipt of
programming using cable converters purchased through unauthorized sources are
problems which continue to challenge the entire cable industry. We have adopted
specific measures to combat the unauthorized use of our plant to receive
programming. For instance, in several of our regions, we have instituted a
"perpetual audit" whereby each technician is required to check at least four
other nearby residences during each service call to determine if there are any
obvious signs of piracy, namely, a drop line leading from the main cable line
into other homes. Addresses where the technician observes drop lines are then
checked against our customer billing records. If the address is not found in the
billing records, a sales representative calls on the unauthorized user to
correct the "billing discrepancy" and persuade the user to become a formal
customer. In our experience, approximately 25% of unauthorized users who are
solicited in this manner become customers. Billing records are then closely
monitored to guard against these new customers reverting to their status as
unauthorized users. Unauthorized users who do not convert are promptly
disconnected and, in certain instances, flagrant violators are referred for
prosecution. In addition, we have prosecuted individuals who have sold cable
converters programmed to receive our signals without proper authorization.



                                  COMPETITION

     We face competition in the areas of price, service offerings and service
reliability. We compete with other providers of television signals and other
sources of home entertainment. In addition, as we expand into additional
services such as Internet access, interactive services and telephony, we will
face competition from other providers of each type of service.

     To date, we believe that we have not lost a significant number of customers
or a significant amount of revenue to our competitors' systems. However,
competition from other providers of the technologies we expect to offer in the
future may have a negative impact on our business in the future.

     Through mergers such as the recent merger of Tele-Communications, Inc. and
AT&T and the pending merger of America Online, Inc. (AOL) and Time Warner Inc.,
customers will come to expect a variety of services from a single provider.
While these mergers have no direct or immediate impact on our business, it
encourages providers of cable and telecommunications services to expand their
service offerings. It also encourages consolidation in the cable industry as
cable operators recognize the competitive benefits of a large customer base and
expanded financial resources.

     Key competitors today include:

     BROADCAST TELEVISION.  Cable television has long competed with broadcast
television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to
receive without charge using an "off-air" antenna. The extent of such
competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals
available through "off-air" reception compared to the services provided by the
local cable system. The recent licensing of digital spectrum by the Federal
Communications Commission will provide incumbent television licenses with the
ability to deliver high definition television pictures and multiple
digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as
subscription video.

     DBS.  Direct broadcast satellite, known as DBS, has emerged as significant
competition to cable systems. The DBS industry has grown rapidly over the last
several years, far exceeding the growth rate of the cable television industry,
and now serves more than 10 million subscribers nationwide. DBS service allows
the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a
relatively small dish antenna. Moreover, video compression technology allows DBS
providers to offer more than 100 digital channels, thereby surpassing the
typical analog cable system. DBS companies historically were prohibited from
retransmitting popular local broadcast programming, but a change to the
copyright laws in November 1999 eliminated this legal impediment. After an
initial six-month grace period, DBS companies will need to secure retransmission
consent from the popular broadcast stations they wish to carry, and they will
face mandatory carriage obligations of less popular broadcast stations as of
January 2002. In response to the legislation, DirecTV, Inc. and EchoStar
Communications Corporation already have begun carrying the major network
stations in the nation's top television markets. DBS, however, is limited in the
local programming it can provide because of the current capacity limitations of
satellite technology. It is, therefore, expected that DBS companies will offer
local broadcast programming only in the larger U.S. markets in the foreseeable
future. The same legislation providing for DBS carriage of local broadcast
stations reduced the compulsory copyright fees paid by DBS companies and allows
them to continue offering distant network signals to rural customers. In March
2000, both DirecTV and EchoStar announced that they would be capable of
providing two-way high-speed Internet access by the end of this year. AOL, the
nation's leading provider of Internet services has announced a plan to invest
$1.5 billion in Hughes Electronics Corp., DirecTV's parent company, and these
companies intend to jointly market AOL's prospective Internet television service
to DirecTV's DBS customers.

     DSL.  The deployment of digital subscriber line technology, known as DSL,
will allow Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater
than those of modems over conventional telephone lines. Several telephone
companies and other companies are introducing DSL service. The Federal
Communications Commission recently released an order in which it mandated that
incumbent telephone companies grant access to the high frequency portion of the
local loop over which they provide voice services. This will enable competitive
carriers to provide DSL services over the same telephone lines simultaneously
used by incumbent telephone companies to provide basic telephone service.
However, in a separate order the Federal Communi-



cations Commission declined to mandate that incumbent telephone companies
unbundle their internal packet switching functionality or related equipment for
the benefit of competitive carriers. This functionality or equipment could
otherwise have been used by competitive carriers directly to provide DSL or
other high-speed broadband services. We are unable to predict whether the
Federal Communications Commission's decisions will be sustained upon
administrative or judicial appeal, the likelihood of success of the Internet
access offered by our competitors or the impact on our business and operations
of these competitive ventures.

     TRADITIONAL OVERBUILDS.  Cable television systems are operated under
non-exclusive franchises granted by local authorities. More than one cable
system may legally be built in the same area. It is possible that a franchising
authority might grant a second franchise to another cable operator and that
franchise might contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded
us. In addition, entities willing to establish an open video system, under which
they offer unaffiliated programmers non-discriminatory access to a portion of
the system's cable system may be able to avoid local franchising requirements.
Well financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public
utilities which already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the
areas they serve may over time become competitors. There has been a recent
increase in the number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems,
in a manner similar to city-provided utility services. There has been an
increased interest in traditional overbuilds by private companies. Constructing
a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high
degree of risk. We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor's
overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the
overbuilt area on a more cost-effective basis than us. Any such overbuild
operation would require either significant access to capital or access to
facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television
programming.

     As of December 31, 1999, we are aware of overbuild situations in some of
our cable systems. Approximately 115,000 basic customers, or approximately 1.9%
of our total basic customers, are passed by these overbuilds. Additionally, we
have been notified that franchises have been awarded, and present potential
overbuild situations, in other of our systems. These potential overbuild areas
service an aggregate of approximately 134,000 basic customers or approximately
2.2% of our total basic customers. In response to such overbuilds, these systems
have been designated priorities for the upgrade of cable plant and the launch of
new and enhanced services. We have upgraded many of these systems to at least
750 megahertz two-way HFC architecture, and anticipate upgrading the other
systems to at least 750 megahertz by December 31, 2001.

     TELEPHONE COMPANIES AND UTILITIES.  The competitive environment has been
significantly affected by both technological developments and regulatory changes
enacted in The Telecommunications Act of 1996, which were designed to enhance
competition in the cable television and local telephone markets. Federal
cross-ownership restrictions historically limited entry by local telephone
companies into the cable television business. The 1996 Telecom Act modified this
cross-ownership restriction, making it possible for local exchange carriers who
have considerable resources to provide a wide variety of video services
competitive with services offered by cable systems.

     As we expand our offerings to include Internet and other telecommunications
services, we will be subject to competition from other telecommunications
providers. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive and includes
competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, who have brand name
recognition and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities.
Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among franchise, wireless or
private cable television operators, local exchange carriers and others may
result in providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and
telecommunications services in direct competition with us.

     Several telephone companies have obtained or are seeking cable television
franchises from local governmental authorities and are constructing cable
systems. Cross-subsidization by local exchange carriers of video and telephony
services poses a strategic advantage over cable operators seeking to compete
with local exchange carriers that provide video services. Some local exchange
carriers may choose to make broadband services available under the open video
regulatory framework of the Federal Communications Commission or through
wireless technology. In addition, local exchange carriers provide facilities for
the transmission and distribution of voice and data services, including Internet
services, in competition with our existing or potential interactive services
ventures and businesses, including Internet service, as well as data and other
non-video services. We cannot predict the likelihood of success of the broadband
services offered by our competitors or



the impact on us of such competitive ventures. The entry of telephone companies
as direct competitors in the video marketplace, however, may become more
widespread and could adversely affect the profitability and valuation of the
systems.

     Additionally, we are subject to competition from utilities which possess
fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal
signal distortion.

     PRIVATE CABLE.  Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna
television systems known as "SMATV systems" serving multiple dwelling units,
referred to in the cable industry as "MDU's", such as condominiums, apartment
complexes, and private residential communities. These private cable systems may
enter into exclusive agreements with such MDUs, which may preclude operators of
franchise systems from serving residents of such private complexes. Such private
cable systems can offer both improved reception of local television stations and
many of the same satellite-delivered program services which are offered by cable
systems. SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available
to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no
requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.
Exemption from regulation may provide a competitive advantage to certain of our
current and potential competitors. The FCC ruled in 1998 that private cable
operators can lease video distribution capacity from local telephone companies
and distribute cable programming services over public rights-of-way without
obtaining a cable franchise. In 1999, both the Fifth and Seventh Circuit Courts
of Appeals upheld this FCC policy.

     WIRELESS DISTRIBUTION.  Cable television systems also compete with wireless
program distribution services such as multi-channel multipoint distribution
systems or "wireless cable," known as MMDS. MMDS uses low-power microwave
frequencies to transmit television programming over-the-air to paying customers.
Wireless distribution services generally provide many of the programming
services provided by cable systems, and digital compression technology is likely
to increase significantly the channel capacity of their systems. Both analog and
digital MMDS services require unobstructed "line of sight" transmission paths.
Analog MMDS has impacted our customer growth in Riverside and Sacramento,
California and Missoula, Montana. Digital MMDS is a more significant competitor,
presenting potential challenges to us in Los Angeles, California and Atlanta,
Georgia.

EMPLOYEES

     Pursuant to a services agreement between Charter Communications, Inc. and
Charter Investment, Inc., Charter Investment, Inc. provides the necessary
personnel and services to manage Charter Communications Holding Company and its
subsidiaries. These personnel and services are provided to Charter
Communications, Inc. on a cost reimbursement basis. Charter Communications, Inc.
currently has only thirteen employees, all of whom are senior management and are
also executive officers of Charter Investment, Inc. Our management and the
management of Charter Investment, Inc. consists of approximately 310 people led
by Charter Communications chief executive officer Jerald L. Kent. They are
responsible for coordinating and overseeing our operations, including certain
critical functions, such as marketing and engineering, that are conducted by
personnel at the regional and local system level. The corporate office also
performs certain financial control functions such as accounting, finance and
acquisitions, payroll and benefit administration, internal audit, purchasing and
programming contract administration on a centralized basis.

     As of February 29, 2000, we had approximately 11,970 full-time equivalent
employees of which approximately 375 were represented by the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. We believe we have a good relationship with
our employees and have never experienced a work stoppage.

INSURANCE

     We have insurance to cover risks incurred in the ordinary course of
business, including general liability, property coverage, business interruption
and workers' compensation insurance in amounts typical of similar operators in
the cable industry and with reputable insurance providers. As is typical in the
cable industry, we do not insure our underground plant. We believe our insurance
coverage is adequate.



                           REGULATION AND LEGISLATION

     The following summary addresses the key regulatory developments and
legislation affecting the cable television industry.

     The operation of a cable system is extensively regulated by the Federal
Communications Commission, some state governments and most local governments.
The 1996 Telecom Act has altered the regulatory structure governing the nation's
communications providers. It removes barriers to competition in both the cable
television market and the local telephone market. Among other things, it also
reduces the scope of cable rate regulation and encourages additional competition
in the video programming industry by allowing local telephone companies to
provide video programming in their own telephone service areas.

     The 1996 Telecom Act requires the Federal Communications Commission to
undertake a host of implementing rulemakings. Moreover, Congress and the Federal
Communications Commission have frequently revisited the subject of cable
regulation. Future legislative and regulatory changes could adversely affect our
operations, and there have been calls in Congress and at the Federal
Communications Commission to maintain or even tighten cable regulation in the
absence of widespread effective competition.

     CABLE RATE REGULATION.  The 1992 Cable Act imposed an extensive rate
regulation regime on the cable television industry, which limited the ability of
cable companies to increase subscriber fees. Under that regime, all cable
systems were subjected to rate regulation, unless they faced "effective
competition" in their local franchise area. Federal law defines "effective
competition" on a community-specific basis as requiring satisfaction of
conditions rarely satisfied in the current marketplace.

     Although the Federal Communications Commission established the underlying
regulatory scheme, local government units, commonly referred to as local
franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering the
regulation of the lowest level of cable service -- the basic service tier, which
typically contains local broadcast stations and public, educational, and
government access channels. Before a local franchising authority begins basic
service rate regulation, it must certify to the Federal Communications
Commission that it will follow applicable federal rules. Many local franchising
authorities have voluntarily declined to exercise their authority to regulate
basic service rates. Local franchising authorities also have primary
responsibility for regulating cable equipment rates. Under federal law, charges
for various types of cable equipment must be unbundled from each other and from
monthly charges for programming services.

     As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition,
approximately 17% of our local franchising authorities were certified to
regulate basic tier rates. The 1992 Cable Act permits communities to certify and
regulate rates at any time, so that it is possible that additional localities
served by the systems may choose to certify and regulate basic rates in the
future.

     The Federal Communications Commission historically administered rate
regulation of cable programming service tiers, which are the expanded basic
programming packages that offer services other than basic programming and which
typically contains satellite-delivered programming. As of December 31, 1999, pro
forma for the Bresnan acquisition we had cable programming service tier rate
complaints relating to approximately 440,000 customers pending at the Federal
Communications Commission. Under the 1996 Telecom Act, however, the Federal
Communications Commission's authority to regulate cable programming service tier
rates sunset on March 31, 1999. The Federal Communications Commission has taken
the position that it will still adjudicate pending cable programming service
tier complaints but will strictly limit its review, and possible refund orders,
to the time period predating the sunset date. We do not believe any
adjudications regarding these pre-sunset complaints will have a material adverse
effect on our business. The elimination of cable programming service tier
regulation on a prospective basis affords us substantially greater pricing
flexibility.

     Under the rate regulations of the Federal Communication Commission, most
cable systems were required to reduce their basic service tier and cable
programming service tier rates in 1993 and 1994, and have since had their rate
increases governed by a complicated price cap scheme that allows for the
recovery of inflation and certain increased costs, as well as providing some
incentive for expanding channel carriage. The Federal Communications Commission
has modified its rate adjustment regulations to allow for annual rate increases


and to minimize previous problems associated with regulatory lag. Operators also
have the opportunity to bypass this "benchmark" regulatory scheme in favor of
traditional "cost-of-service" regulation in cases where the latter methodology
appears favorable. Cost of service regulation is a traditional form of rate
regulation, under which a utility is allowed to recover its costs of providing
the regulated service, plus a reasonable profit. The Federal Communications
Commission and Congress have provided various forms of rate relief for smaller
cable systems owned by smaller operators. Premium cable services offered on a
per-channel or per-program basis remain unregulated. However, federal law
requires that the basic service tier be offered to all cable subscribers and
limits the ability of operators to require purchase of any cable programming
service tier if a customer seeks to purchase premium services offered on a
per-channel or per-program basis, subject to a technology exception which
sunsets in 2002.

     As noted above, Federal Communications Commission regulation of cable
programming service tier rates for all systems, regardless of size, sunset
pursuant to the 1996 Telecom Act on March 31, 1999. As a result, the regulatory
regime just discussed is now essentially applicable only to the basic service
tier and cable equipment. The 1996 Telecom Act also relaxes existing "uniform
rate" requirements by specifying that uniform rate requirements do not apply
where the operator faces "effective competition," and by exempting bulk
discounts to multiple dwelling units, although complaints about predatory
pricing still may be made to the Federal Communications Commission.

     CABLE ENTRY INTO TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  The 1996 Telecom Act creates a more
favorable environment for us to provide telecommunications services beyond
traditional video delivery. It provides that no state or local laws or
regulations may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting any entity from
providing any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service. A cable
operator is authorized under the 1996 Telecom Act to provide telecommunications
services without obtaining a separate local franchise. States are authorized,
however, to impose "competitively neutral" requirements regarding universal
service, public safety and welfare, service quality, and consumer protection.
State and local governments also retain their authority to manage the public
rights-of-way and may require reasonable, competitively neutral compensation for
management of the public rights-of-way when cable operators provide
telecommunications service. The favorable pole attachment rates afforded cable
operators under federal law can be gradually increased by utility companies
owning the poles, beginning in 2001, if the operator provides telecommunications
service, as well as cable service, over its plant. The Federal Communications
Commission recently clarified that a cable operator's favorable pole rates are
not endangered by the provision of Internet access.

     Cable entry into telecommunications will be affected by the regulatory
landscape now being developed by the Federal Communications Commission and state
regulators. One critical component of the 1996 Telecom Act to facilitate the
entry of new telecommunications providers, including cable operators, is the
interconnection obligation imposed on all telecommunications carriers. In July
1997, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated certain aspects of the Federal
Communications Commission initial interconnection order but most of that
decision was reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court in January 1999. The Supreme
Court effectively upheld most of the Federal Communications Commission
interconnection regulations. Although these regulations should enable new
telecommunications entrants to reach viable interconnection agreements with
incumbent carriers, many issues, including which specific network elements the
Federal Communications Commission can mandate that incumbent carriers make
available to competitors, remain subject to administrative and judicial appeal.
If the Federal Communications Commission current list of unbundled network
elements is upheld on appeal, it would make it easier for us to provide
telecommunications service.

     INTERNET SERVICE.  Although there is at present no significant federal
regulation of cable system delivery of Internet services, and the Federal
Communications Commission recently issued several reports finding no immediate
need to impose such regulation, this situation may change as cable systems
expand their broadband delivery of Internet services. In particular, proposals
have been advanced at the Federal Communications Commission and Congress that
would require cable operators to provide access to unaffiliated Internet service
providers and online service providers. The FCC recently rejected a petition by
certain Internet service providers attempting to use existing modes of access
that are commercially leased to gain access to cable system delivery. Finally,
some local franchising authorities are considering the imposition of mandatory
Internet access requirements as part of cable franchise renewals or transfers. A
federal district court in Portland, Oregon recently upheld the legal ability of
local franchising authority to impose such conditions, but


an appeal was filed with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, oral argument has
been held and the parties are awaiting a decision. Other local authorities have
imposed or may impose mandatory Internet access requirements on cable operators.
These developments could, if they become widespread, burden the capacity of
cable systems and complicate our own plans for providing Internet service.

     TELEPHONE COMPANY ENTRY INTO CABLE TELEVISION.  The 1996 Telecom Act allows
telephone companies to compete directly with cable operators by repealing the
historic telephone company/cable cross-ownership ban. Local exchange carriers,
including the regional telephone companies, can now compete with cable operators
both inside and outside their telephone service areas with certain regulatory
safeguards. Because of their resources, local exchange carriers could be
formidable competitors to traditional cable operators. Various local exchange
carriers already are providing video programming services within their telephone
service areas through a variety of distribution methods, including both the
deployment of broadband wire facilities and the use of wireless transmission.

     Under the 1996 Telecom Act, local exchange carriers or any other cable
competitor providing video programming to subscribers through broadband wire
should be regulated as a traditional cable operator, subject to local
franchising and federal regulatory requirements, unless the local exchange
carrier or other cable competitor elects to deploy its broadband plant as an
open video system. To qualify for favorable open video system status, the
competitor must reserve two-thirds of the system's activated channels for
unaffiliated entities. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed certain of
the Federal Communications Commission's open video system rules, including its
preemption of local franchising. The Federal Communications Commission recently
revised its OVS rules to eliminate this general preemption, thereby leaving
franchising discretion to state and local authorities. It is unclear what effect
this ruling will have on the entities pursuing open video system operation.

     Although local exchange carriers and cable operators can now expand their
offerings across traditional service boundaries, the general prohibition remains
on local exchange carrier buyouts of co-located cable systems. Co-located cable
systems are cable systems serving an overlapping territory. Cable operator
buyouts of co-located local exchange carrier systems, and joint ventures between
cable operators and local exchange carriers in the same market are also
prohibited. The 1996 Telecom Act provides a few limited exceptions to this
buyout prohibition, including a carefully circumscribed "rural exemption." The
1996 Telecom Act also provides the Federal Communications Commission with the
limited authority to grant waivers of the buyout prohibition.

     ELECTRIC UTILITY ENTRY INTO TELECOMMUNICATIONS/CABLE TELEVISION.  The 1996
Telecom Act provides that registered utility holding companies and subsidiaries
may provide telecommunications services, including cable television,
notwithstanding the Public Utility Holding Company Act. Electric utilities must
establish separate subsidiaries, known as "exempt telecommunications companies"
and must apply to the Federal Communications Commission for operating authority.
Like telephone companies, electric utilities have substantial resources at their
disposal, and could be formidable competitors to traditional cable systems.
Several such utilities have been granted broad authority by the Federal
Communications Commission to engage in activities which could include the
provision of video programming.

     ADDITIONAL OWNERSHIP RESTRICTIONS.  The 1996 Telecom Act eliminates
statutory restrictions on broadcast/cable cross-ownership, including broadcast
network/cable restrictions, but leaves in place existing Federal Communications
Commission regulations prohibiting local cross-ownership between co-located
television stations and cable systems.

     Pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act, the Federal Communications Commission
adopted rules precluding a cable system from devoting more than 40% of its
activated channel capacity to the carriage of affiliated national video program
services. Also pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act, the Federal Communications
Commission has adopted rules that preclude any cable operator from serving more
than 30% of all U.S. domestic multichannel video subscribers, including cable
and direct broadcast satellite subscribers. This provision might require AT&T to
divest certain cable ownership. However, this provision has been stayed pending
further judicial review.



     MUST CARRY/RETRANSMISSION CONSENT.  The 1992 Cable Act contains broadcast
signal carriage requirements. Broadcast signal carriage is the transmission of
broadcast television signals over a cable system to cable customers. These
requirements, among other things, allow local commercial television broadcast
stations to elect once every three years between "must carry" status or
"retransmission consent" status. Less popular stations typically elect must
carry, which is the broadcast signal carriage requirement that allows local
commercial television broadcast stations to require a cable system to carry the
station. More popular stations, such as those affiliated with a national
network, typically elect retransmission consent which is the broadcast signal
carriage requirement that allows local commercial television broadcast stations
to negotiate for payments for granting permission to the cable operator to carry
the stations. Must carry requests can dilute the appeal of a cable system's
programming offerings because a cable system with limited channel capacity may
be required to forego carriage of popular channels in favor of less popular
broadcast stations electing must carry. Retransmission consent demands may
require substantial payments or other concessions. Either option has a
potentially adverse effect on our business. The burden associated with must
carry may increase substantially if broadcasters proceed with planned conversion
to digital transmission and the Federal Communications Commission determines
that cable systems must carry all analog and digital broadcasts in their
entirety. This burden would reduce capacity available for more popular video
programming and new internet and telecommunication offerings. A rulemaking is
now pending at the Federal Communications Commission regarding the imposition of
dual digital and analog must carry.

     ACCESS CHANNELS.  Local franchising authorities can include franchise
provisions requiring cable operators to set aside certain channels for public,
educational and governmental access programming. Federal law also requires cable
systems to designate a portion of their channel capacity, up to 15% in some
cases, for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties. The Federal
Communications Commission has adopted rules regulating the terms, conditions and
maximum rates a cable operator may charge for commercial leased access use. We
believe that requests for commercial leased access carriages have been
relatively limited. The Federal Communications Commission recently rejected a
request that unaffiliated Internet service providers be found eligible for
commercial leased access. Although we do not believe such use is in accord with
the governing statute, a contrary ruling, should the ruling be appealed, could
lead to substantial leased activity by Internet service providers and disrupt
our own plans for Internet service.

     ACCESS TO PROGRAMMING.  To spur the development of independent cable
programmers and competition to incumbent cable operators, the 1992 Cable Act
imposed restrictions on the dealings between cable operators and cable
programmers. Of special significance from a competitive business posture, the
1992 Cable Act precludes video programmers affiliated with cable companies from
favoring their cable operators over new competitors and requires such
programmers to sell their programming to other multichannel video distributors.
This provision limits the ability of vertically integrated cable programmers to
offer exclusive programming arrangements to cable companies. There also has been
interest expressed in further restricting the marketing practices of cable
programmers, including subjecting programmers who are not affiliated with cable
operators to all of the existing program access requirements, and subjecting
terrestrially delivered programming to the program access requirements.
Terrestrially delivered programming is programming delivered other than by
satellite. These changes should not have a dramatic impact on us, but would
limit potential competitive advantages we now enjoy.

     INSIDE WIRING; SUBSCRIBER ACCESS.  In an order issued in 1997, the Federal
Communications Commission established rules that require an incumbent cable
operator upon expiration of a multiple dwelling unit service contract to sell,
abandon, or remove "home run" wiring that was installed by the cable operator in
a multiple dwelling unit building. These inside wiring rules are expected to
assist building owners in their attempts to replace existing cable operators
with new programming providers who are willing to pay the building owner a
higher fee, where such a fee is permissible. The Federal Communications
Commission has also proposed abrogating all exclusive multiple dwelling unit
service agreements held by incumbent operators, but allowing such contracts when
held by new entrants. In another proceeding, the Federal Communications
Commission has preempted restrictions on the deployment of private antenna on
rental property within the exclusive use of a tenant, such as balconies and
patios. This Federal Communications Commission ruling may limit the extent to
which we along with multiple dwelling unit owners may enforce certain aspects of
multiple dwelling unit



agreements which otherwise prohibit, for example, placement of digital broadcast
satellite receiver antennae in multiple dwelling unit areas under the exclusive
occupancy of a renter. These developments may make it even more difficult for us
to provide service in multiple dwelling unit complexes.

     OTHER REGULATIONS OF THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.  In addition to
the Federal Communications Commission regulations noted above, there are other
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission covering such areas as:

     -  equal employment opportunity,

     -  subscriber privacy,

     -  programming practices, including, among other things,

       (1)  syndicated program exclusivity, which is a Federal Communications
            Commission rule which requires a cable system to delete particular
            programming offered by a distant broadcast signal carried on the
            system which duplicates the programming for which a local broadcast
            station has secured exclusive distribution rights,

       (2)  network program nonduplication,

       (3)  local sports blackouts,

       (4)  indecent programming,

       (5)  lottery programming,

       (6)  political programming,

       (7)  sponsorship identification,

       (8)  children's programming advertisements, and

       (9)  closed captioning,

     -  registration of cable systems and facilities licensing,

     -  maintenance of various records and public inspection files,

     -  aeronautical frequency usage,

     -  lockbox availability,

     -  antenna structure notification,

     -  tower marking and lighting,

     -  consumer protection and customer service standards,

     -  technical standards,

     -  consumer electronics equipment compatibility, and

     -  emergency alert systems.

     The Federal Communications Commission recently ruled that cable customers
must be allowed to purchase cable converters from third parties and established
a multi-year phase-in during which security functions, which would remain in the
operator's exclusive control, would be unbundled from basic converter functions,
which could then be satisfied by third party vendors.

     The Federal Communications Commission has the authority to enforce its
regulations through the imposition of substantial fines, the issuance of cease
and desist orders and/or the imposition of other administrative sanctions, such
as the revocation of Federal Communications Commission licenses needed to
operate certain transmission facilities used in connection with cable
operations.



     COPYRIGHT.  Cable television systems are subject to federal copyright
licensing covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals. In
exchange for filing certain reports and contributing a percentage of their
revenues to a federal copyright royalty pool, that varies depending on the size
of the system, the number of distant broadcast television signals carried, and
the location of the cable system, cable operators can obtain blanket permission
to retransmit copyrighted material included in broadcast signals. The possible
modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject
of continuing legislative review and could adversely affect our ability to
obtain desired broadcast programming. We cannot predict the outcome of this
legislative activity. Copyright clearances for nonbroadcast programming services
are arranged through private negotiations.

     Cable operators distribute locally originated programming and advertising
that use music controlled by the two principal major music performing rights
organizations, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers and
Broadcast Music, Inc. The cable industry has had a long series of negotiations
and adjudications with both organizations. A prior voluntarily negotiated
agreement with Broadcast Music has now expired, and is subject to further
proceedings. The governing rate court recently set retroactive and prospective
cable industry rates for American Society of Composers music based on the
previously negotiated Broadcast Music rate. Although we cannot predict the
ultimate outcome of these industry proceedings or the amount of any license fees
we may be required to pay for past and future use of association-controlled
music, we do not believe such license fees will be significant to our business
and operations.

     STATE AND LOCAL REGULATION.  Cable television systems generally are
operated pursuant to nonexclusive franchises granted by a municipality or other
state or local government entity in order to cross public rights-of-way. Federal
law now prohibits local franchising authorities from granting exclusive
franchises or from unreasonably refusing to award additional franchises. Cable
franchises generally are granted for fixed terms and in many cases include
monetary penalties for non-compliance and may be terminable if the franchisee
failed to comply with material provisions.

     The specific terms and conditions of franchises vary materially between
jurisdictions. Each franchise generally contains provisions governing cable
operations, service rates, franchising fees, system construction and maintenance
obligations, system channel capacity, design and technical performance, customer
service standards, and indemnification protections. A number of states,
including Connecticut, subject cable systems to the jurisdiction of centralized
state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a character
similar to that of a public utility. Although local franchising authorities have
considerable discretion in establishing franchise terms, there are certain
federal limitations. For example, local franchising authorities cannot insist on
franchise fees exceeding 5% of the system's gross cable-related revenues, cannot
dictate the particular technology used by the system, and cannot specify video
programming other than identifying broad categories of programming.

     Federal law contains renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent
franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. Even if a franchise is
renewed, the local franchising authority may seek to impose new and more onerous
requirements such as significant upgrades in facilities and service or increased
franchise fees as a condition of renewal. Similarly, if a local franchising
authority's consent is required for the purchase or sale of a cable system or
franchise, such local franchising authority may attempt to impose more
burdensome or onerous franchise requirements in connection with a request for
consent. Historically, most franchises have been renewed for and consents
granted to cable operators that have provided satisfactory services and have
complied with the terms of their franchise.

     Under the 1996 Telecom Act, states and local franchising authorities are
prohibited from limiting, restricting, or conditioning the provision of
competitive telecommunications services, except for certain "competitively
neutral" requirements and as necessary to manage the public rights-of-way. In
addition, local franchising authorities may not require a cable operator to
provide any telecommunications service or facilities, other than institutional
networks under certain circumstances, as a condition of an initial franchise
grant, a franchise renewal, or a franchise transfer. The 1996 Telecom Act also
provides that franchising fees are limited to an operator's cable-related
revenues and do not apply to revenues that a cable operator derives from
providing new telecommunications services.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     The principal physical assets of Charter Holdings and its subsidiaries
consist of cable television distribution plant and equipment, including signal
receiving, encoding and decoding devices, headends and distribution systems and
customer house drop equipment.

     Our headend reception facilities consist of associated electronic equipment
necessary for the reception, amplification and modulation of signals and are
located near the receiving apparatus. The receiving apparatus is comprised of a
tower and antennas for reception of over-the-air broadcast television signals
and one or more earth stations for reception of satellite signals. Located near
these receiving devices is a building housing associated electronic gear and
processing equipment. Charter Holdings and its subsidiaries own the receiving
and distribution equipment and own or lease small parcels of real property for
the receiving sites.

     As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, our
distribution plant consists primarily of approximately 180,100 miles of coaxial
cable and approximately 12,600 sheath miles of fiber optic cable. Fiber optic
cable is a communication medium that uses hair-thin fibers to transmit signals
over long distances with minimal signal loss or distortion. Coaxial cable is a
type of cable used for broadband data and cable systems. This type of cable has
excellent broadband frequency characteristics, noise immunity and physical
durability. The cable is either buried in underground trenches or is attached to
utility poles pursuant to license agreements with the owners of the poles. The
cable is connected from each node to individual homes or buildings. A node is a
single connection to a cable system's main high-capacity fiber optic cable that
is shared by a number of customers. A sheath mile is the actual length of cable
in miles.

     In addition, Charter Holdings subsidiaries own or lease local business
offices of each system from which service employees are dispatched, technical
quality of the system is monitored, customer service and billing inquiries are
handled and marketing programs are administered. The office facilities of some
systems include certain equipment for program production, as required by certain
of our franchises.

     Subsidiaries of Charter Holdings own the real property housing a regional
data center in Town & Country, Missouri, as well as the regional office for the
Northeast Region in Newtown, Connecticut and additional real estate located in
Hickory, North Carolina; Hammond, Louisiana; and West Sacramento and San Luis
Obispo, California. The subsidiaries of Charter Holdings lease space for our
regional data center located in Dallas, Texas and additional locations for
business offices throughout our operating regions and generally own the towers
on which our equipment is located. Headend locations are generally located on
owned or leased parcels of land.

     We believe that our properties are generally in good condition, although
the components of the cable systems do require maintenance and periodic upgrades
to keep pace with technological advances and to comply with the requirements of
certain franchising authorities. Our systems currently operate at between 300
and 870 megahertz. We believe the standard in the cable industry generally to be
a minimum of 550 megahertz. For a discussion of the historical and planned
capital expenditures, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations."

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and other claims
arising in the ordinary course of our business. We maintain insurance coverage
against potential claims in an amount, that we believe to be adequate. There are
no material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental
to the business, to which we are a party or of which any of the our property is
the subject.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted to a vote of equityholders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 1999.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

         (A) MARKET INFORMATION

     Our Class A common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market system
under the ticker symbol: CHTR.

              QUARTERLY MARKET INFORMATION -- CLASS A COMMON STOCK



- ---------------

*   We completed our initial public offering of Class A common stock on November
    8, 1999. The initial public offering price per share was $19.00.

(B) HOLDERS

     As of March 28, 2000, there were 1,923 holders of our Class A common stock
(representing an aggregate of approximately 234,000 beneficial owners) and one
holder of our Class B common stock. No preferred stock is outstanding.

(C) DIVIDENDS

     There have been no stock dividends paid on any of our equity securities. We
do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to
retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business.
Charter Communications Holding Company is required under certain circumstances
to pay distributions pro rata to all holders of its common membership units,
including us, to the extent necessary for any holder of common membership units,
to pay income taxes incurred with respect to its share of taxable income
attributed to Charter Communications Holding Company. Covenants in the
indentures governing the debt obligations of Charter Communications Holding
Company and its subsidiaries restrict their ability to make distributions to us,
and accordingly, limit our ability to declare or pay cash dividends.

(D) RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

     On November 12, 1999 and December 9, 1999, we issued an aggregate of
26,190,584 shares of Class A common stock to certain sellers in the Rifkin and
Falcon acquisitions. On November 12, 1999, former sellers in the Rifkin
acquisition, who received preferred membership units in Charter Communications
Holding Company in connection with the acquisition, contributed to Charter
Communications, Inc. an aggregate of 6,946,893 of these preferred membership
units. For this contribution, Charter Communications, Inc. issued to such
persons 6,946,893 shares of Class A common stock. Also on November 12, 1999,
certain partners of Falcon Holding Group, L.P. who received common membership
units in Charter Communications Holding Company in connection with the Falcon
acquisition, contributed these units to Charter Communications, Inc., along with
their rights to receive additional units in connection with the underwriters'
exercise of the over-allotment option and the closing of the Bresnan
acquisition. As a result of this contribution, certain partners of Falcon
Holding Group, L.P. or their transferees were issued 18,955,939 shares of Class
A common stock on November 12, 1999, 287,752 shares on December 9, 1999 and
349,162 shares on February 14, 2000.

     On January 12, 2000, Charter Holdings and Charter Communications Holdings
Capital Corporation issued $675.0 million of 10.00% senior notes due 2009,
$325.0 million of 10.25% senior notes due 2010, and $532.0 million 11.75% senior
discount notes due 2010 to certain qualified institutional buyers based on the
exemptions from registration contained in Section 4(2) of Rule 144A, promulgated
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The principal underwriters for
this offering were Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Chase Securities, Inc. The aggregate
gross proceeds of these notes was $1,300 million and the aggregate underwriting



commissions and discounts were $26.8 million. Of the net proceeds totaling
$1,274 million, $1,250 million was utilized to finance the change of control
offers to repurchase outstanding Avalon, Falcon and Bresnan notes and
debentures. The remaining $23.5 million was used for expenses related to the
offering.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA.

     On July 22, 1999, Charter Investment, Inc., a company controlled by Mr.
Allen, formed Charter Communications, Inc. with a nominal initial investment. On
November 12, 1999, Charter Communications, Inc. sold 195.5 million shares of
Class A common stock in an initial public offering and 50,000 shares of high
vote Class B common stock to Mr. Allen. The net proceeds from these sales were
used to purchase membership units of Charter Communications Holding Company,
representing an approximate 40.6% economic interest, before giving effect to the
Bresnan acquisition that occurred on February 14, 2000, and a 100% voting
interest.

     Charter Communications, Inc.'s purchase of 50,000 membership units of
Charter Communications Holding Company was accounted for as a reorganization of
entities under common control similar to a pooling of interests. Accordingly,
beginning December 23, 1998, the date Mr. Allen first controlled Charter
Communications Holding Company, the assets and liabilities of Charter
Communications Holding Company are reflected in the consolidated financial
statements of Charter Communications, Inc. at Mr. Allen's basis. Minority
interest is recorded representing that portion of the economic interests in
Charter Communications Holding Company not owned by Charter Communications, Inc.

     Consolidated financial statements of Charter Communications, Inc. do not
exist for periods prior to December 23, 1998. Instead, for the periods from
October 1, 1995 through December 23, 1998, the consolidated financial statements
of Charter Communications Properties Holdings, LLC (CCPH), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Investment, Inc. and predecessor to Charter
Communications, Inc., are presented. CCPH commenced operations with the
acquisition of a cable television system on September 30, 1995

     The selected historical financial data below for the period from October 1,
1995 through December 31, 1995, for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1997,
and for the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998, are derived
from the consolidated financial statements of CCPH, which have been audited by
Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants. The selected historical
financial data for the period from December 24, 1998 through December 31, 1998
and the year ended December 31, 1999 are derived from the consolidated financial
statements of Charter Communications, Inc., which have been audited by Arthur
Andersen LLP and are included herein. The selected historical financial data for
the period from January 1, 1995 through September 30, 1995 are derived from the
unaudited financial statements of the CCPH's predecessor business. The
information presented below should be read in conjunction with "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
the historical financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this
Annual Report.



                       SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

     Reference is made to the "Certain Trends and Uncertainties" section below
in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of important
factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and
non-historical information contained herein.

INTRODUCTION

     We do not believe that our historical financial condition and results of
operations are accurate indicators of future results because of certain past and
pending significant events, including:

     (1)  the acquisition by Mr. Allen of CCA Group, Charter Communications
          Properties Holdings, LLC (CCPH) and CharterComm Holdings LLC, referred
          to together with their subsidiaries as the Charter companies;

     (2)  the merger of Marcus Holdings with and into Charter Holdings;



     (3)  the recent and pending acquisitions of Charter Communications Holding
          Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries;

     (4)  the refinancing or replacement of the previous credit facilities of
          the Charter companies and certain of our subsidiaries acquired in 1999
          and 2000;

     (5)  the purchase of publicly held notes that had been issued by several of
          the direct and indirect subsidiaries of Charter Communications Holding
          Company and Marcus Holdings; and

     (6)  the allocation of losses to minority interests.

     Provided below is a discussion of our organizational history consisting of:

     (1)  the operations and development of the Charter companies prior to the
          acquisition by Mr. Allen, together with the acquisition of the Charter
          companies by Mr. Allen;

     (2)  the merger of Marcus Holdings with and into Charter Holdings;

     (3)  the recent and pending acquisitions of Charter Communications Holding
          Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries;

     (4)  the formation of Charter Communications, Inc.; and

     (5)  our initial public offering of Class A common stock.

ORGANIZATIONAL HISTORY

     Prior to the acquisition of the Charter companies by Mr. Allen on December
23, 1998 and the merger of Marcus Holdings with and into Charter Holdings
effective April 7, 1999, the cable systems of the Charter and Marcus companies
were operated under four groups of companies. Three of these groups were
comprised of companies that were managed by Charter Investment prior to the
acquisition of the Charter companies by Mr. Allen and the fourth group was
comprised of companies that were subsidiaries of Marcus Holdings. Charter's
management began managing Marcus Holdings in October 1998.

     The following is an explanation of how:

     (1)  CCPH, the operating companies that formerly comprised CCA Group and
          CharterComm Holdings, and the Marcus companies became wholly owned
          subsidiaries of Charter Operating;

     (2)  Charter Operating became a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter
        Holdings;

     (3)  Charter Holdings became a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter
        Communications Holding Company;

     (4)  Charter Communications Holding Company became a wholly owned
        subsidiary of Charter Investment; and

     (5)  Charter Communications Inc. became the sole voting member and the sole
        manager of Charter Communications Holding Company.

THE CHARTER COMPANIES

     Prior to Charter Investment acquiring the remaining interests that it did
not previously own in two of the three groups of Charter companies, namely CCA
Group and CharterComm Holdings, as described below, the operating subsidiaries
of the three groups of Charter companies were parties to separate management
agreements with Charter Investment pursuant to which Charter Investment provided
management and consulting services. Prior to our acquisition by Mr. Allen, the
Charter companies were as follows:

     (1) CCPH

     CCPH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Investment. The primary
     subsidiary of CCPH, which owned the cable systems, was Charter
     Communications Properties, LLC. In connection with Mr. Allen's



     acquisition on December 23, 1998, CCPH was merged out of existence and
     Charter Communications Properties became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary
     of Charter Investment. In May 1998, CCPH acquired certain cable systems
     from Sonic Communications, Inc. for a total purchase price, net of cash
     acquired, of $228.4 million, including $60.9 million of assumed debt.

     (2) CCA Group

     The controlling interests in CCA Group were held by affiliates of Kelso &
     Co. Charter Investment had only a minority interest. Effective December 23,
     1998, prior to Mr. Allen's acquisition, Charter Investment acquired from
     the Kelso affiliates the interests Kelso held in CCA Group. Consequently,
     the companies comprising CCA Group became wholly owned subsidiaries of
     Charter Investment.

        CCA Group consisted of the following three sister companies:

        (a)  CCT Holdings, LLC;

        (b)  CCA Holdings, LLC; and

        (c)  Charter Communications Long Beach, LLC.

     The cable systems were owned by the various subsidiaries of these three
     sister companies. The financial statements for these three sister companies
     historically were combined and the term "CCA Group" was assigned to these
     combined entities. In connection with Mr. Allen's acquisition on December
     23, 1998, the three sister companies and some of the non-operating
     subsidiaries were merged out of existence, leaving certain of the operating
     subsidiaries owning all of the cable systems under this former group. These
     operating subsidiaries became indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries of
     Charter Investment.

     (3) CharterComm Holdings, LLC

     The controlling interests in CharterComm Holdings were held by affiliates
     of Charterhouse Group International Inc. Charter Investment had only a
     minority interest. Effective December 23, 1998, prior to Mr. Allen's
     acquisition, Charter Investment acquired from the Charterhouse Group
     affiliates the interests the Charterhouse Group affiliates held in Charter
     Communication Holdings. Consequently, CharterComm Holdings became a wholly
     owned subsidiary of Charter Investment.

     The cable systems were owned by the various subsidiaries of CharterComm
Holdings. In connection with Mr. Allen's acquisition on December 23, 1998, some
of the non-operating subsidiaries were merged out of existence, leaving certain
of the operating subsidiaries owning all of the cable systems under this former
group. CharterComm Holdings was merged out of existence. Charter Communications,
LLC became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Investment.

     Our acquisition by Mr. Allen became effective on December 23, 1998, through
a series of transactions in which Mr. Allen acquired approximately 94% of the
equity interests of Charter Investment for an aggregate purchase price of $2.2
billion, excluding $2.0 billion in assumed debt. Charter Communications
Properties and the operating companies that formerly comprised CCA Group and
CharterComm Holdings were contributed to Charter Operating subsequent to Mr.
Allen's acquisition. CCPH is deemed to be our predecessor. Consequently, the
contribution of Charter Communications Properties was accounted for as a
reorganization under common control. The contributions of the operating
companies that formerly comprised CCA Group and CharterComm Holdings were
accounted for in accordance with purchase accounting. Accordingly, our results
of operations for periods after December 23, 1998 include the accounts of
Charter Communications Properties, CCA Group and CharterComm Holdings.

     In February 1999, Charter Holdings was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary
of Charter Investment and Charter Operating was formed as a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Holdings. All of Charter Investment's direct interests in
the entities described above were transferred to Charter Operating. All of the
prior management agreements were terminated and a new management agreement was
entered into between Charter Investment and Charter Operating.



     In May 1999, Charter Holdco was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of
Charter Investment. All of Charter Investment's interests in Charter Holdings
were transferred to Charter Communications Holding Company.

     In July 1999, Charter Communications, Inc. was formed as a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Investment. Also in November 1999, Charter Communications
Holding Company sold membership units to Vulcan Cable III. In the initial public
offering of Charter Communications, Inc., substantially all of its equity
interests were sold to the public and less than 1% of its equity interests were
sold to Mr. Allen. Charter Communications, Inc. contributed substantially all of
the proceeds of the initial public offering to Charter Communications Holding
Company which issued membership units to Charter Communications, Inc. In
November 1999, the management agreement between Charter Investment and Charter
Operating was amended and assigned from Charter Investment to us.

THE MARCUS COMPANIES

     In April 1998, Mr. Allen acquired approximately 99% of the non-voting
economic interests in Marcus Cable, and agreed to acquire the remaining
interests. The owner of the remaining partnership interests retained voting
control of Marcus Cable. In October 1998, Marcus Cable entered into a management
consulting agreement with Charter Investment, pursuant to which Charter
Investment provided management and consulting services to Marcus Cable and its
subsidiaries which own cable systems. This agreement placed the Marcus cable
systems under common management with the cable systems of the Charter companies
acquired by Mr. Allen in December 1998.

     In March 1999, all of Mr. Allen's interests in Marcus Cable were
transferred to Marcus Holdings, a then newly formed company. Later in March
1999, Mr. Allen acquired the remaining interests in Marcus Cable, including
voting control, which interests were transferred to Marcus Holdings. In April
1999, Mr. Allen merged Marcus Holdings into Charter Holdings, and the operating
subsidiaries of Marcus Holdings and all of the cable systems they owned came
under the ownership of Charter Holdings and, in turn, Charter Operating. For
financial reporting purposes, the merger of Marcus Holdings with and into
Charter Holdings was accounted for as an acquisition of Marcus Holdings
effective March 31, 1999, and accordingly, the results of operations of Marcus
Holdings have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that
date.

ACQUISITIONS

     Since the beginning of 1999, we have completed twelve acquisitions for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $14.1 billion including assumed debt
of $3.3 billion. These acquisitions were funded through excess cash from the
issuance by Charter Holdings of the March 1999 Charter Holdings notes,
borrowings under our credit facilities, the assumption of the outstanding
Renaissance, Helicon, Rifkin, Avalon, Falcon and Bresnan notes and debentures,
equity issued to specific sellers in the Helicon, Rifkin, Falcon and Bresnan
acquisitions, the net proceeds of our Class A common stock initial public
offering and equity contributions to Charter Communications Holding Company by
Mr. Allen through Vulcan Cable III.

     In the Falcon acquisition, certain of the Falcon sellers received a total
of $550 million of the Falcon purchase price in the form of membership units in
Charter Communications Holding Company. In the Bresnan acquisition, the Bresnan
sellers received $1.0 billion of the Bresnan purchase price in the form of
membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company and preferred
membership units in an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications, Inc. In
addition, certain Rifkin sellers received a total of $133.3 million of the
Rifkin purchase price in the form of preferred membership units in Charter
Communications Holding Company. Under the Helicon purchase agreement, $25
million of the purchase price was paid in the form of preferred limited
liability company interests of Charter-Helicon, LLC, our indirect subsidiary.



     The following table sets forth additional information on our acquisitions
in 1999 and 2000 and our pending acquisition:



- ---------------

(a) As part of the transaction with InterMedia, we agreed to "swap" some of our
    non-strategic cable systems located in Indiana, Montana, Utah and northern
    Kentucky, representing 142,000 basic customers. We transferred cable systems
    with 112,000 customers to InterMedia in connection with this swap in October
    1999. The remaining cable system, with customers totaling 30,000, was
    transferred in March 2000 after receipt of the necessary regulatory
    approvals.

(b) Includes revenues for all swapped InterMedia systems, except the retained
    Indiana system, for the nine months ended September 30, 1999, the date of
    the transfer, and includes revenues for the Indiana system for the year
    ended December 31, 1999.

(c) Includes approximately 5,400 customers served by cable systems that we
    acquired from certain former affiliates of Avalon in February 2000. The $845
    million purchase price for Avalon includes the purchase price for these
    systems of approximately $13 million.

(d) Includes revenues of approximately $1.6 million related to the cable systems
    acquired from certain former affiliates of Avalon.

(e) Includes approximately 19,400 customers served by cable systems acquired by
    Bresnan since December 31, 1999.

(f) Includes revenues of approximately $7.1 million related to the cable systems
    acquired by Bresnan since December 31, 1999.

PENDING ACQUISITION

     In March 2000, we entered into an agreement providing for the merger of
Cablevision of Michigan, Inc., the indirect owner of a cable system in
Kalamazoo, Michigan, with and into Charter Communications, Inc. As a result of
this merger, Charter Communications, Inc. will become the indirect owner of the
Kalamazoo cable system. The merger consideration of approximately $173 million
will be paid in Class A common stock of Charter Communications, Inc. which will
contribute 100% of the equity interests of the direct owner of the system to
Charter Communications Holding Company in exchange for membership units. The
Kalamazoo



cable system has approximately 49,000 customers and had revenue of approximately
$31.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. We anticipate that this
acquisition will close in the third quarter of 2000.

     POSSIBLE SWAP TRANSACTION.  On December 1, 1999, Charter and AT&T entered
into a non-binding letter of intent to exchange certain of Charter's cable
systems for cable systems owned by AT&T. As part of the Swap Transaction, we
will be required to pay to AT&T approximately $108 million in cash, which
represents the difference in the agreed values of the systems to be exchanged.
The Swap Transaction is subject to the negotiation and execution of a definitive
exchange agreement, regulatory approvals and other conditions typical in
transactions of this type. We cannot assure that these conditions will be
satisfied.

     In addition, we have had discussions with several other cable operators
about the possibility of "swapping" cable systems that would further complement
our regional operating clusters.

OVERVIEW

     Approximately 87% of our historical revenues for the year ended December
31, 1999 are attributable to monthly subscription fees charged to customers for
our basic, expanded basic and premium cable television programming services,
equipment rental and ancillary services provided by our cable television
systems. In addition, we derive other revenues from installation and
reconnection fees charged to customers to commence or reinstate service,
pay-per-view programming, where users are charged a fee for individual programs
requested, advertising revenues and commissions related to the sale of
merchandise by home shopping services. We have generated increased revenues in
each of the past three fiscal years, primarily through internal customer growth,
basic and expanded tier rate increases, acquisitions and innovative marketing.
We are beginning to offer our customers several other services, which are
expected to significantly contribute to our revenues. One of these services is
digital cable, which provides customers with additional programming options. We
are also offering high-speed Internet access to the World Wide Web through cable
modems. Our television-based Internet access allows us to offer the services
provided by WorldGate Communications, Inc., which provides users with TV-based
e-mail and other Internet access.

     Our expenses primarily consist of operating costs, general and
administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and management
fees/corporate expense charges. Operating costs primarily include programming
costs, cable service related expenses, marketing and advertising costs,
franchise fees and expenses related to customer billings. Programming costs
accounted for approximately 44% of our operating, general and administrative
expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999. Programming costs have increased
in recent years and are expected to continue to increase due to additional
programming being provided to customers, increased cost to produce or purchase
cable programming, inflation and other factors affecting the cable television
industry. In each year we have operated, our costs to acquire programming have
exceeded customary inflationary increases. Significant factors with respect to
increased programming costs are the rate increases and surcharges imposed by
national and regional sports networks directly tied to escalating costs to
acquire programming for professional sports packages in a competitive market. We
benefited in the past from our membership in an industry cooperative that
provides members with volume discounts from programming networks. We believe our
membership kept increases in our programming costs below what the increases
would otherwise have been. We have been able to negotiate favorable terms with
premium networks in conjunction with the premium packages we offer, which
minimized the impact on margins and provided substantial volume incentives to
grow the premium category. Although we believe that we will be able to pass
future increases in programming costs through to customers, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to do so.

     General and administrative expenses primarily include accounting and
administrative personnel and professional fees. Depreciation and amortization
expense relates to the depreciation of our tangible assets and the amortization
of our franchise costs. Management fees/corporate expense charges are fees paid
or charges for management services. Charter Holdings records actual expense
charges incurred by Charter Communications, Inc. on behalf of Charter Holdings.
Prior to the acquisition of us by Mr. Allen, the CCA Group and CharterComm
Holdings recorded management fees payable to Charter Investment, Inc. equal to
3.0% to 5.0% of gross revenues plus certain expenses. In October 1998, Charter
Investment, Inc. began managing the cable



operations of Marcus Holdings under a management agreement, which was terminated
in February 1999 and replaced by a master management fee arrangement.

     In connection with Charter Communications, Inc.'s initial public offering
of common stock in November 1999, the management agreement between Charter
Investment, Inc. and Charter Operating was assigned to Charter Communications,
Inc. and Charter Communications, Inc. entered into a new management agreement
with Charter Communications Holding Company. These management agreements are
substantially similar to the previous management agreement with Charter
Operating except that Charter Communications, Inc. is only entitled to receive
reimbursement of its expenses as consideration for its providing management
services. In addition, the Falcon, Fanch, Avalon and Bresnan cable systems are
managed pursuant to agreements that entitle Charter Communications, Inc. to
receive reimbursement of its expenses as consideration for its provision of
management services. Our credit facilities limit the amount of such
reimbursements to 3.5% of gross revenues.

     We have had a history of net losses and expect to continue to report net
losses for the foreseeable future. The principal reasons for our prior and
anticipated net losses include depreciation and amortization expenses associated
with our acquisitions, capital expenditures related to construction and
upgrading of our systems, and interest costs on borrowed money. We cannot
predict what impact, if any, continued losses will have on our ability to
finance our operations in the future.

     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following discusses the results of operations for:

     (1)  CCPH, for the year ended December 31, 1997, and for the period from
          January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998;

     (2)  Charter Communications, Inc., comprised of CCPH, CCA Group and
          CharterComm Holdings, for the period from December 24, 1998 through
          December 31, 1998; and

     (3)  Charter Communications, Inc.'s comprised of the following for the year
          ended December 31, 1999:

        -  CCPH, CCA Group and CharterComm Holdings for the entire period;

        -  Marcus Holdings for the period from March 31, 1999, the date Mr.
           Allen acquired voting control, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Renaissance Media Group LLC for the period from April 30, 1999, the
           acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  American Cable Entertainment, LLC for the period from May 7, 1999,
           the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Cable systems of Greater Media Cablevision, Inc. for the period from
           June 30, 1999, the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Helicon Partners I, L.P. and affiliates for the period from July 30,
           1999, the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Vista Broadband Communications, L.L.C. for the period from July 30,
           1999, the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Cable system of Cable Satellite of South Miami, Inc. for the period
           from August 4, 1999, the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Rifkin Acquisition Partners, L.L.L.P. and InterLink Communications
           Partners, LLLP for the period from September 13, 1999, the
           acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Cable systems of InterMedia Capital Partners IV, L.P., InterMedia
           Partners and affiliates for the period from October 1, 1999, "swap"
           transaction date, through December 31, 1999;



        -  Cable systems of Fanch Cablevision L.P. and affiliates from November
           12, 1999, the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999;

        -  Falcon Communications, L.P. for the period from November 12, 1999,
           the acquisition date, through December 31, 1999; and

        -  Avalon Cable of Michigan Holdings, Inc. from November 15, 1999, the
           acquisition date, through December 31, 1999.

     No operating results are included for the Bresnan cable systems acquired on
February 14, 2000.

     The following table sets forth the percentages of revenues that items in
the statements of operations constitute for the indicated periods (dollars in
thousands):



FISCAL 1999 COMPARED TO PERIOD FROM JANUARY 1, 1998 THROUGH DECEMBER 23, 1998

     REVENUES.  Revenues increased by $1,378.5 million, from $49.7 million for
the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $1,428.2 million in
1999. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from the acquisitions of CCA
Group and CharterComm Holdings, Marcus Holdings and 1999 acquisitions.
Additional revenues from these entities included for the year ended December 31,
1999 were $618.8 million, $386.7 million and $350.1 million, respectively.

     OPERATING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.  Operating, general and
administrative costs increased by $712.0 million, from $26.0 million for the
period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $738.0 million in 1999.
This increase was due primarily to the acquisition of the CCA Group and
CharterComm Holdings, Marcus Holdings and 1999 acquisitions. Additional
operating, general and administrative expenses from these entities included for
the year ended December 31, 1999 were $338.5 million, $209.3 million and $158.8
million, respectively.

     DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  Depreciation and amortization expense
increased by $728.5 million, from $16.9 million, for the period from January 1,
1998 through December 23, 1998 to $745.3 million in 1999. There was a
significant increase in amortization expense resulting from the acquisitions of
the CCA Group and CharterComm Holdings, Marcus Holdings and 1999 acquisitions.
Additional depreciation and amortization expense from these entities included
for the year ended December 31, 1999 were $346.3 million, $203.5 million and
$195.1 million, respectively. The increases were offset by the elimination of
depreciation and amortization expense related to disposition of cable systems.



     OPTION COMPENSATION EXPENSE.  Option compensation expense in 1999 was $80.0
million due to the granting of options to employees in December 1998, February
1999 and April 1999. The exercise prices of the options on the date of grant
were less than the estimated fair values of the underlying membership units,
resulting in compensation expense accrued over the vesting period of each grant
that varies from four to five years.

     MANAGEMENT FEES/CORPORATE EXPENSE CHARGES.  Management fees/corporate
expense charges increased by $45.3 million, from $6.2 million, for the period
from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $51.4 million in 1999. The
increase in 1998 compared to 1999 was the result of the acquisitions of CCA
Group and CharterComm Holdings, Marcus Holdings and 1999 acquisitions.

     INTEREST INCOME.  Interest income increased by $34.4 million, from $44 for
the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $34.5 million in
1999. The increase was primarily due to investing excess cash that resulted from
required credit facilities drawdowns, the initial public offering and the sale
of the March 1999 Charter Holdings notes.

     INTEREST EXPENSE.  Interest expense increased by $460.5 million, from $17.3
million for the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $477.8
million in 1999. This increase resulted primarily from interest on the notes and
credit facilities used to finance the acquisitions of CCA Group and CharterComm
Holdings, Marcus Holdings and 1999 acquisitions.

     MINORITY INTEREST.  Minority interest is $5.3 million for the period from
December 24, 1998 through December 31, 1998 and $572.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. The minority interest represents the ownership in
Charter Communications Holding Company by entities other than Charter
Communications, Inc. For financial reporting purposes, 50,000 of the membership
units Charter Communications Holding Company previously issued to companies
controlled by Mr. Allen are considered held by Charter Communications, Inc.
since December 24, 1998.

     NET LOSS.  Net loss increased by $49.0 million, from $17.2 million for the
period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 to $66.2 million in 1999.
The increase in revenues that resulted from the acquisitions of CCA Group,
CharterComm Holdings and Marcus Holdings was not sufficient to offset the
operating expenses associated with the acquired systems.

PERIOD FROM DECEMBER 24, 1998 THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 1998

     This period is not comparable to any other period presented. The financial
statements represent eight days of operations. This period not only contains the
results of operations of CCPH but also the results of operations of those
entities purchased in the acquisition of the Charter companies by Mr. Allen. As
a result, no comparison of the operating results for this eight-day period is
presented.

PERIOD FROM JANUARY 1, 1998 THROUGH DECEMBER 23, 1998 COMPARED TO 1997

     REVENUES.  Revenues increased by $30.9 million, or 163.6%, from $18.9
million in 1997 to $49.7 million for the period from January 1, 1998 through
December 23, 1998. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from the
acquisition of Sonic, which had revenues for that period of $29.8 million.

     OPERATING COSTS.  Operating costs increased by $9.6 million, or 104.8%,
from $9.2 million in 1997 to $18.8 million for the period from January 1, 1998
through December 23, 1998. This increase was due primarily to the acquisition of
Sonic, which had operating expenses for that period of $9.4 million, partially
offset by the loss of $1.4 million on the sale of a cable system in 1997.

     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.  General and administrative costs
increased by $4.6 million, or 175.9%, from $2.6 million in 1997 to $7.2 million
for the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998. This increase was
due primarily to the acquisition of Sonic, which had general and administrative
costs for that period of $6.0 million.

     DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION.  Depreciation and amortization expense
increased by $10.8 million, or 176.3%, from $6.1 million in 1997 to $16.9
million for the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23,


1998. There was a significant increase in amortization resulting from the
acquisition of Sonic. Incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of the
acquisition of Sonic were $9.9 million.

     MANAGEMENT FEES/CORPORATE EXPENSE CHARGES.  Corporate expense charges
increased by $5.6 million, or 991.2% from $0.6 million in 1997 to $6.2 million
for the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998. The increase from
1997 compared to the period from January 1, 1998 through December 23, 1998 was
the result of additional Charter Investment, Inc. charges related to equity
appreciation rights plans of $3.8 million for the period from January 1, 1998
through December 23, 1998 and an increase of $0.9 million in management services
provided by Charter Investment, Inc. as a result of the acquisition of Sonic.

     INTEREST EXPENSE.  Interest expense increased by $12.2 million, or 237.4%,
from $5.1 million in 1997 to $17.3 million for the period from January 1, 1998
through December 23, 1998. This increase resulted primarily from the
indebtedness of $220.6 million, including a note payable for $60.9 million,
incurred in connection with the acquisition of Sonic resulting in additional
interest expense.

     NET LOSS.  Net loss increased by $12.6 million, or 272.5%, from $4.6
million in 1997 to $17.2 million for the period from January 1, 1998 through
December 23, 1998. The increase in revenues that resulted from cable television
customer growth was not sufficient to offset the operating expenses related to
the acquisition of Sonic.

OUTLOOK

     Our business strategy emphasizes the increase of our operating cash flow by
increasing our customer base and the amount of cash flow per customer. We
believe that there are significant advantages in increasing the size and scope
of our operations, including:

     -  improved economies of scale in management, marketing, customer service,
        billing and other administrative functions;

     -  reduced costs for our cable systems and our infrastructure in general;

     -  increased leverage for negotiating programming contracts; and

     -  increased influence on the evolution of important new technologies
        affecting our business.

     We seek to "cluster" cable systems in suburban and ex-urban areas
surrounding selected metropolitan markets. We believe that such "clustering"
offers significant opportunities to increase operating efficiencies and to
improve operating margins and cash flow by spreading fixed costs over an
expanding subscriber base. In addition, we believe that by concentrating
"clusters" in markets, we will be able to generate higher growth in revenues and
operating cash flow. Through strategic acquisitions and "swaps" of cable
systems, we seek to enlarge the coverage of our current areas of operations,
and, if feasible, develop "clusters" in new geographic areas within existing
regions. Swapping of cable systems allows us to trade systems that do not
coincide with our operating strategy while gaining systems that meet our
objectives. Several significant swaps have been announced. These swaps have
demonstrated the industry's trend to cluster operations. To date, we have
participated in one swap in connection with the transaction with InterMedia. In
addition, Charter Communications, Inc. has entered into a non-binding letter of
intent providing for the exchange of certain of our cable systems for systems
owned by AT&T.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Our business requires significant cash to fund acquisitions, capital
expenditures, debt service costs and ongoing operations. We have historically
funded and expect to fund future liquidity and capital requirements through cash
flows from operations, equity contributions, borrowings under our credit
facilities and debt and equity financings.

     Our historical cash flows from operating activities in 1998 were $30.2
million, and in 1999 were $479.9 million.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

     We have substantial ongoing capital expenditure requirements. We make
capital expenditures primarily to upgrade, rebuild and expand our cable systems,
as well as for system maintenance, the development of new products and services,
and converters. Converters are set-top devices added in front of a subscriber's
television receiver to change the frequency of the cable television signals to a
suitable channel. The television receiver is then able to tune and to allow
access to premium service.

     Upgrading our cable systems will enable us to offer new products and
services, including digital television, additional channels and tiers, expanded
pay-per-view options, high-speed Internet access and interactive services.

     Capital expenditures for 1999, pro forma for acquisitions in 1999 and the
acquisition of the Bresnan cable systems, are estimated to be approximately $1.3
billion. In 1999, we made capital expenditures, excluding cable systems acquired
in 1999 and in our merger with Marcus Holdings, of $741.5 million. The majority
of these capital expenditures related to rebuilding existing cable system and
were funded from cash flows from operations and borrowings under credit
facilities.

     For the period from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002, we plan to spend
approximately $5.6 billion for capital expenditures, approximately $3.1 billion
of which will be used to upgrade and rebuild our systems to a bandwidth capacity
of 550 megahertz or greater and add two-way capability, so that we may offer
advanced services. The remaining $2.5 billion will be used for extensions of
systems, development of new products and services, converters and system
maintenance. Capital expenditures for 2000, 2001 and 2002 are expected to be
approximately $1.6 billion, $2.0 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. We
currently expect to finance the anticipated capital expenditures with cash
generated from operations and additional borrowings under credit facilities. We
cannot assure you that these amounts will be sufficient to accomplish our
planned system upgrade, expansion and maintenance. If we are not able to obtain
amounts sufficient for our planned upgrades and other capital expenditures, it
could adversely affect our ability to offer new products and services and
compete effectively, and could adversely affect our growth, financial condition
and results of operations.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

     As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the sale of the January 2000 Charter
Holdings notes, the Bresnan acquisition, and the repurchase of Falcon, Avalon
and Bresnan notes and debentures, our total debt would have been approximately
$11.0 billion, and the deficiency of earnings available to cover fixed charges
before minority interest would have been approximately $1,475.4 million. Our
significant amount of debt may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing
in the future and react to changes in our business. Our credit facilities and
other debt instruments contain various financial and operating covenants that
could adversely impact our ability to operate our business, including
restrictions on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute cash to
their parents. See "-- Certain Trends and Uncertainties -- Restrictive
Covenants," for further information.

     MARCH 1999 CHARTER HOLDINGS NOTES.  On March 17, 1999, Charter Holdings and
Charter Capital issued $3.6 billion principal amount of senior notes. The March
1999 Charter Holdings notes consisted of $600 million in aggregate principal
amount of 8.250% senior notes due 2007, $1.5 billion in aggregate principal
amount of 8.625% senior notes due 2009, and $1.475 billion in aggregate
principal amount at maturity of 9.920% senior discount notes due 2011. The net
proceeds of approximately $3.0 billion, combined with the borrowings under our
credit facilities, were used to consummate tender offers for publicly held debt
of several of our subsidiaries, as described below, to refinance borrowings
under our previous credit facilities, for working capital purposes and to
finance a number of acquisitions.

     As of December 31, 1999, a total of $2.1 billion was outstanding under the
8.250% notes and the 8.625% notes, and the accreted value of the outstanding
9.920% notes was $977.8 million.

     NOTES OF THE CHARTER COMPANIES AND THE MARCUS COMPANIES.  In February and
March 1999, we commenced cash tender offers to purchase the 14% senior discount
notes issued by Charter Communications Southeast Holdings, LLC, the 11.25%
senior notes issued by Charter Communications Southeast, LLC, the


13.50% senior subordinated discount notes issued by Marcus Cable Operating
Company, L.L.C., and the 14.25% senior discount notes issued by Marcus Cable.
All such notes, except for $1.1 million in principal amount, were repaid in full
for an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion. The remaining $1.1 million of such
notes were repaid in September 1999.

     CHARTER OPERATING CREDIT FACILITIES.  The Charter Operating credit
facilities provides for two term facilities, one with a principal amount of $1.0
billion that matures in September 2007 (Term A), and the other with a principal
amount of $1.85 billion that matures in March 2008 (Term B). The Charter
Operating credit facilities also provide for a $1.25 billion revolving credit
facility with a maturity date in September 2007, and at the option of the
lenders, supplemental credit facilities, in the amount of $500.0 million
available until March 18, 2002. Amounts under the Charter Operating credit
facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar rate, as defined,
plus a margin of up to 2.75% (8.22% to 8.97% as of December 31, 1999). A
quarterly commitment fee of between 0.25% and 0.375% per annum is payable on the
unborrowed balance of Term A and the revolving credit facility. As of December
31, 1999, the unused availability was $1.2 billion. In March 2000, the credit
agreement was amended to increase the amount of the supplemental credit facility
to $1.0 billion. In connection with this amendment, $600 million of the
supplemental credit facility was drawn down. The incremental term loan maturity
date is September 18, 2008.

     RENAISSANCE NOTES.  When we acquired Renaissance in April 1999, Renaissance
had outstanding $163.2 million principal amount at maturity of 10% senior
discount notes due 2008. The Renaissance 10% notes do not require the payment of
interest until April 15, 2003. After April 15, 2003, the Renaissance 10% notes
bear interest, payable semi-annually in cash, on April 15 and October 15,
commencing on October 15, 2003. The Renaissance 10% notes are due on April 15,
2008. In May 1999, $48.8 million aggregate face amount of the Renaissance Notes
were repurchased at 101% of their accreted value plus accrued and unpaid
interest. As of December 31, 1999, the accreted value of the Renaissance 10%
notes that remained outstanding was approximately $83.0 million.

     HELICON NOTES.  We acquired Helicon in July 1999 and assumed Helicon's
$115.0 million in principal amount of 11% senior secured notes due 2003. On
November 1, 1999, we redeemed all of the Helicon 11% notes at a purchase price
equal to 103% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, for
$124.8 million.

     RIFKIN NOTES.  We acquired Rifkin in September 1999 and assumed Rifkin's
outstanding $125.0 million in principal amount of 11.125% senior subordinated
notes due 2006. In October 1999, we repurchased an individually held $3.0
million Rifkin promissory note for $3.4 million and publicly held notes with a
total outstanding principal amount of $124.1 million for a total of $140.6
million, including a consent fee to noteholders who delivered timely consents to
amend the indenture governing those notes to eliminate substantially all of the
restrictive covenants. As of December 31, 1999, there was $0.9 million in
principal amount outstanding of Rifkin notes. In February 2000, we repurchased
$0.5 million in principal amount of these notes.

     FALCON DEBENTURES.  We acquired Falcon in November 1999 and assumed
Falcon's outstanding $375 million in principal amount of 8.375% senior
debentures due 2010 and 9.285% senior discount debentures due 2010 with an
accreted value of approximately $319.1 million. Falcon's 11.56% subordinated
notes due 2001 were paid off for a total of $16.3 million, including principal,
accrued and unpaid interest and premiums at the closing of the Falcon
acquisition. As of December 31, 1999, $375.0 million total principal amount of
the Falcon 8.375% debentures were outstanding and the accreted value of the
Falcon 9.285% debentures was approximately $323.0 million.

     On December 10, 1999, change of control offers were commenced to repurchase
the Falcon debentures at purchase prices of 101% of principal amount, plus
accrued and unpaid interest, or accreted value, as applicable. In the change of
control offers and purchases in the "open market," all of the 8.375% senior
debentures were repurchased for $388.0 million, all of the 9.285% senior
discount debentures were repurchased for $328.1 million in February 2000.



     FALCON CREDIT FACILITIES.  In connection with the Falcon acquisition, the
previous Falcon credit facilities were amended to provide for two term
facilities, one with a principal amount of $200.0 million that matures June 2007
(Term B), and the other with the principal amount of $300.0 million that matures
December 2007 (Term C). The Falcon credit facilities also provide for a $646.0
million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of December 2006 and at
the options of the lenders, a supplemental facilities in the amount of a $700.0
million with a maturity date in December 2007. At December 31, 1999, $110.0
million was outstanding under the supplemental credit facilities. Amounts under
the Falcon credit facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar
rate, as defined, plus a margin of up to 2.5% (7.57% to 9.25% as of December 31,
1999). A quarterly commitment fee of between 0.25% and 0.375% per annum is
payable on the unborrowed balance. As of December 31, 1999, unused availability
was $390.5 million. However, debt covenants limit the amount that can be
borrowed to $342.0 million at December 31, 1999.

     AVALON CREDIT FACILITIES.  The Avalon credit facilities have maximum
borrowings of $300.0 million, consisting of a revolving facility in the amount
of $175.0 million that matures May 15, 2008, and a Term B loan in the amount of
$125.0 million that matures on November 15, 2008. The Avalon credit facilities
also provide, at the option of the lenders, for supplemental credit facilities
in the amounts of $75 million available until December 31, 2003. Amounts under
the Avalon credit facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar
rate, as defined, plus a margin up to 2.75% (7.995% to 8.870% as of December 31,
1999). A quarterly commitment fee of between 0.250% and 0.375% per annum is
payable on the unborrowed balance. The Company borrowed $170.0 million under the
Avalon credit facilities to fund a portion of the Avalon purchase price. As of
December 31, 1999, unused availability was $130.0 million.

     AVALON NOTES.  We acquired Avalon in November and assumed Avalon's
outstanding $150 million in principal amount of 11.875% senior discount notes
due 2008 and 9.375% senior subordinated notes due 2008 with an accreted value of
$123.3 million. As of December 31, 1999, the accreted value of the Avalon
11.875% notes was $124.8 and $150.0 million in principal of the Avalon 9.375%
notes remained outstanding. After December 1, 2003, cash interest on the Avalon
11.875% notes will be payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each
year, commencing June 1, 2004.

     In January 2000, we completed change of control offers in which we
repurchased $16.3 million aggregate principal amount of the 11.875% notes at a
purchase price of 101% of accreted value, as of January 28, 2000. The aggregate
repurchase price of $10.5 million was funded with cash received from equity
contributions from Charter Communications Holdings. As of February 29, 2000,
Avalon 11.875% notes with an aggregate principal amount of $179.8 million at
maturity remained outstanding with an accreted value of $116.4 million.

     At the same time, we also completed a change of control offer in which we
repurchased $134.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Avalon 9.375% notes
for 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon
through January 28, 2000. The aggregate repurchase price was $137.4 million and
was funded with equity contributions from Charter Holdings which made the cash
available from the proceeds of its sale of the Charter January 2000 notes.

     In addition to the above change of control repurchase, we repurchased the
remaining Avalon 9.375% notes (including accrued and unpaid interest) in the
"open market" for $16.3 million, also using cash received from equity
contributions ultimately from Charter Holdings, which made the cash available
from the sale proceeds of the January 2000 Charter Holdings notes.

     FANCH CREDIT FACILITIES.  The Fanch credit facilities provide for two term
facilities, one with a principal amount of $450 million that matures May 2008
(Term A), and the other with the principal amount of $400 million that matures
November 2008 (Term B). The Fanch credit facilities also provide for a $350
million revolving credit facility with a maturity date in May 2008 and at the
options of the lenders, supplemental credit facilities, in the amount of $300.0
million available until December 31, 2004. Amounts under the Fanch credit
facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar rate, as defined,
plus a margin of up to 2.75% (8.12% to 8.87% as of December 31, 1999). A
quarterly commitment fee of between 0.250% and 0.375% per annum is payable on
the unborrowed balance. The Company used $850.0 million of the credit facilities
to fund a portion of the Fanch purchase price. As of December 31, 1999, unused
availability was $350.0 million.


     BRESNAN NOTES.  We acquired Bresnan in February 2000 and assumed Bresnan's
outstanding $170.0 million in principal amount, outstanding, on the acquisition
date, of 8% senior notes due 2009 and 9.25% senior discount notes due 2009 with
an accreted value of $192.1 million. In March 2000, we repurchased all of the
outstanding Bresnan notes at purchase prices of 101% of the outstanding
principal amounts plus accrued and unpaid interest or accreted value, as
applicable, for a total of $369.7 million.

     BRESNAN CREDIT FACILITIES.  Upon the closing of the Bresnan acquisition, we
amended and assumed the previous Bresnan credit facilities. The Bresnan
facilities provide for borrowings of up to $900.0 million. At the closing of the
Bresnan acquisition, we borrowed approximately $601.2 million to replace the
borrowings outstanding under the previous credit facilities and an additional
$30.0 million to fund a portion of the Bresnan purchase price. As of February
29, 2000, $647.9 million was outstanding and $252.1 million was available for
borrowing.

     JANUARY 2000 CHARTER HOLDINGS NOTES.  On January 12, 2000, Charter Holdings
and Charter Capital issued $1.5 billion principal amount of senior notes. The
January 2000 Charter Holdings notes consisted of $675 million in aggregate
principal amount of 10.00% senior notes due 2009, $325 million in aggregate
principal amount of 10.25% senior notes due 2010, and $532 million in aggregate
principal amount at maturity of 11.75% senior discount notes due 2010. The net
proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion were used to consummate change of control
offers for certain of the Falcon, Avalon and Bresnan notes and debentures.

     Charter Holdings and Charter Capital intend to exchange the January 2000
Charter Holdings notes for notes with substantially similar terms, except that
the new notes will be registered and not subject to restrictions on transfer.

     As of February 29, 2000, $1.0 billion of the January 2000 Charter Holdings
10.00% and 10.25% senior notes are outstanding, and the accreted value of the
11.75% senior discount notes was approximately $304.9 million.

     In August 1999, Vulcan Cable III Inc. contributed to Charter Communications
Holding Company $500 million in cash and, in September 1999, an additional $825
million, of which approximately $644.3 million was in cash and approximately
$180.7 million was in the form of equity interests acquired by Vulcan Cable III
Inc. in connection with the Rifkin acquisition. Charter Communications Holding
Company in turn contributed the cash and equity interests to Charter Holdings.
In November 1999, in connection with Charter Communications, Inc.'s initial
public offering, Vulcan Cable III contributed to Charter Communications Holding
Company $750 million in cash. In connection with the Rifkin, Falcon and Bresnan
acquisitions, Charter Communications Holding Company issued equity interests
totaling approximately $1,068 million and certain subsidiaries of Charter
Holdings issued preferred equity interests totaling $629.5 million to the
Bresnan sellers.

     For a description of our acquisitions completed in 1999 and 2000 and our
pending acquisition, see "Business -- Acquisitions."

CERTAIN TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIES

     The following discussion highlights a number of trends and uncertainties,
in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report that could
materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.

     SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE.  As of December 31, 1999, pro forma for the
acquisition of the Bresnan cable systems and the sale of the January 2000
Charter Holdings notes, our total debt was approximately $11.025 billion. We
anticipate incurring significant additional debt in the future to fund the
expansion, maintenance and the upgrade of our cable systems.

     Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our planned capital
expenditures for upgrading our cable systems and our ongoing operations will
depend on our ability to generate cash and secure financing in the future. This,
to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive,
legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure
you that our business will generate



sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be
available to us under our existing credit facilities, new facilities or from
other sources of financing at acceptable rates or in an amount sufficient to
enable us to repay our debt, to grow our business or to fund our other liquidity
and capital needs.

     VARIABLE INTEREST RATES.  A significant portion of our debt bears interest
at variable rates that are linked to short-term interest rates. In addition, a
significant portion of our existing debt, assumed debt or debt we might arrange
in the future will bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates rise, our
costs relative to those obligations will also rise. See discussion on
"-- Interest Rate Risk."

     RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.  Our credit facilities and the indentures governing
our outstanding debt contain a number of significant covenants that, among other
things, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:

     -  pay dividends or make other distributions;

     -  make certain investments or acquisitions;

     -  dispose of assets or merge;

     -  incur additional debt;

     -  issue equity;

     -  repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt;

     -  create liens; and

     -  pledge assets.

     Furthermore, in accordance with our credit facilities we are required to
maintain specified financial ratios and meet financial tests. The ability to
comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The
breach of any of these covenants will result in a default under the applicable
debt agreement or instrument, which could trigger acceleration of the debt. Any
default under our credit facilities or the indentures governing our outstanding
debt may adversely affect our growth, our financial condition and our results of
operations.

     IMPORTANCE OF GROWTH STRATEGY AND RELATED RISKS.  We expect that a
substantial portion of any of our future growth will be achieved through
revenues from additional services and the acquisition of additional cable
systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offer new services
successfully to our customers or that those new services will generate revenues.
In addition, the acquisition of additional cable systems may not have a positive
net impact on our operating results. Acquisitions involve a number of special
risks, including diversion of management's attention, failure to retain key
acquired personnel, risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities
and difficulties in assimilation of the operations of the acquired companies,
some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to grow our cash
flow sufficiently, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations or obtain
alternative financing.

     MANAGEMENT OF GROWTH.  As a result of the acquisition of the Charter
companies by Mr. Allen, the merger of Charter Holdings with Marcus Holdings, our
1999 and 2000 acquisitions and our pending acquisition, we have experienced and
will continue to experience rapid growth that has placed and is expected to
continue to place a significant strain on our management, operations and other
resources. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to successfully
integrate the operations acquired and to be acquired and to attract and retain
qualified personnel. Historically, acquired entities have had minimal employee
benefit related costs and all benefit plans have been terminated with acquired
employees transferring to our 401(k) plan. No significant severance cost was
incurred in conjunction with acquisitions in 1999 and 2000. The failure to
retain or obtain needed personnel or to implement management, operating or
financial systems necessary to successfully integrate acquired operations or
otherwise manage growth when and as needed could have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



     In connection with our acquisitions over the past year, we maintain
multi-disciplinary teams to formulate plans for establishing customer service
centers, identifying property, plant and equipment requirements and possible
reduction of headends. Headends are the control centers of a cable television
system where incoming signals are amplified, converted, processed and combined
for transmission to customers. These teams also determine market position and
how to attract talented personnel. Our goals include rapid transition in
achieving performance objectives and implementing "best practice" procedures.

     REGULATION AND LEGISLATION.  Cable systems are extensively regulated at the
federal, state, and local level. These regulations have increased the
administrative and operational expenses of cable television systems and affected
the development of cable competition. Rate regulation of cable systems has been
in place since passage of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, although the scope of this regulation recently was
sharply contracted. Since March 31, 1999, rate regulation exists only with
respect to the lowest level of basic cable service and associated equipment.
This change affords cable operators much greater pricing flexibility, although
Congress could revisit this issue if confronted with substantial rate increases.

     Cable operators also face significant regulation of their channel capacity.
They currently can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of
programming that they would not carry voluntarily, including certain local
broadcast signals, local public, educational and government access users, and
unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers. This carriage burden could
increase in the future, particularly if the Federal Communications Commission
were to require cable systems to carry both the analog and digital versions of
local broadcast signals. The FCC is currently conducting a proceeding in which
it is considering this channel usage possibility. The FCC recently rejected a
request to allow unaffiliated Internet service providers seeking direct cable
access to invoke commercial leased access rights originally devised for video
programmers.

     There is also uncertainty whether local franchising authorities, the FCC,
or the U.S. Congress will impose obligations on cable operators to provide
unaffiliated Internet service providers with access to cable plant on
non-discriminatory terms. If they were to do so, and the obligations were found
to be lawful, it could complicate our operations in general, and our Internet
operations in particular, from a technical and marketing standpoint. These
access obligations could adversely impact our profitability and discourage
system upgrades and the introduction of new products and services.

     POSSIBLE RESCISSION LIABILITY.  The Rifkin, Falcon and Bresnan sellers who
acquired Charter Communications Holding Company membership units or, in the case
of Bresnan, additional equity interests in one of our subsidiaries, in
connection with the respective Rifkin, Falcon and Bresnan acquisitions, and the
Helicon sellers who acquired shares of Class A common stock in Charter
Communications, Inc.'s initial public offering may have rescission rights
against Charter Communications, Inc. and Charter Communications Holding Company,
arising out of possible violations of Section 5 of the Securities Act in
connection with the offers and sales of these equity interests.

     If all of these equity holders successfully exercised their possible
rescission rights and we became obligated to repurchase all such equity
interests, the total repurchase obligations would be up to approximately $1.8
billion. For financial reporting purposes, this maximum potential obligation has
been excluded from stockholders' equity and minority interest and has been
classified as redeemable securities (temporary equity). After one year from the
dates of issuance of these equity interests (when these rescission rights will
have expired), we will reclassify the respective amounts to stockholders' equity
and minority interest. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain
capital sufficient to fund any required repurchases. This could adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations.

YEAR 2000 ISSUES

     GENERAL.  Many existing computer systems and applications, and other
control devices and embedded computer chips use only two digits, rather than
four, to identify a year in the date field, failing to consider the impact of
the change in the century. Computer chips are the physical structure upon which
integrated circuits are fabricated as components of systems, such as telephone
systems, computers and memory systems. As a


result, such systems, applications, devices, and chips could create erroneous
results or might fail altogether unless corrected to properly interpret data
related to the year 2000 and beyond. These errors and failures may result, not
only from a date recognition problem in the particular part of a system failing,
but may also result as systems, applications, devices and chips receive
erroneous or improper data from third-parties suffering from the year 2000
problem. In addition, two interacting systems, applications, devices or chips,
each of which has individually been fixed so that it will properly handle the
year 2000 problem, could nonetheless result in a failure because their method of
dealing with the problem is not compatible.

     We have not experienced significant disruptions or any other problems since
the beginning of 2000. We cannot assure you, however, that such problems will
not arise in connection with customer billing or other periodic information
gathering.

     COST.  The total cost of our year 2000 remediation programs was
approximately $9.8 million. We do not anticipate significant additional
expenditures.

OPTIONS

     In accordance with an employment agreement and a related option agreement
with Mr. Kent, our President and Chief Executive Officer was issued a grant to
purchase 7,044,127 membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company in
December 1998. The option vests over a four-year period from the date of grant
and expires ten years from the date of grant.

     In February 1999, Charter Holdings adopted an option plan, which was
assumed by Charter Communications Holding Company in May 1999, providing for the
grant of options to employees and consultants and directors of Charter
Communications Holding Company and its affiliates to purchase up to 25,009,798
Charter Communications Holding Company membership units. Options granted under
the plan will be fully vested after five years from the date of grant. Options
not exercised accumulate and are exercisable, in whole or in part, in any
subsequent period, but not later than ten years from the date of grant.

     Membership units received upon exercise of the options issued to Mr. Kent
and to optionees under the plan are automatically exchanged for shares of Class
A common stock of Charter Communications, Inc. on a one-for-one basis at any
time. The following chart sets forth the number of options outstanding and the
exercise price of such options as of December 31, 1999.



- ---------------

(1) Granted to Jerald L. Kent pursuant to his employment agreement and related
     option agreement.

(2) Granted pursuant to the option plan.

(3) Weighted average.

(4) The weighted average exercise price was $20.00 and $19.90 at December 31,
    1998 and 1999, respectively.

     The weighted average fair value of options granted was $12.59 and $12.50 at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



     In February 2000, Charter Communications Holding Company granted 5.7
million options at $19.47 per share.

     We follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees" to account for options issued under the option plan and the
options held by our President and Chief Executive Officer. We recorded stock
option compensation expense of $845,000 for the period from December 24, 1998
through December 31, 1998 and $80.0 million for the year ended December 31,
1999, in the financial statements since the exercise prices were less than the
estimated fair values of the underlying membership units on the date of grant.
The estimated fair value was determined using the valuation inherent in Mr.
Allen's acquisition of Charter and valuations of public companies in the cable
television industry adjusted for factors specific to us. Compensation expense is
accrued over the vesting period of each grant that varies from four to five
years. As of December 31, 1999, deferred compensation remaining to be recognized
in future periods totaled $79.4 million.

SUPPLEMENTAL UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL DATA

     The following Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Data are based on
the financial data of Charter Communications, Inc. Since January 1, 1999,
Charter Communications Holding Company and Charter Holdings have closed numerous
acquisitions. In addition, Charter Holdings merged with Marcus Holdings in April
1999. Our financial data, on a consolidated basis, are adjusted on a pro forma
basis to illustrate the estimated effects of the Bresnan acquisition and the
sale of the January 2000 Charter Holdings notes as if such transactions had
occurred on December 31, 1999 for the unaudited pro forma balance sheet data and
to illustrate the estimated effects of the following transactions as if they had
occurred on January 1, 1999 for the unaudited pro forma statements of operations
data:

     (1)  the acquisition of Marcus Cable by Mr. Allen and Marcus Holdings'
          merger with and into Charter Holdings effective March 31, 1999;

     (2)  Charter Communications Holding Company and its subsidiaries'
          acquisitions completed since January 1, 1999;

     (3)  the refinancing of the previous credit facilities of the Charter
          Companies and certain subsidiaries acquired in 1999 and 2000;

     (4)  the sale of the March 1999 Charter Holdings notes and the January 2000
          Charter Holdings notes.

     The Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Data reflect the application
of the principles of purchase accounting to the transactions listed in items (1)
and (2) above. The allocation of certain purchase prices is based, in part, on
preliminary information, which is subject to adjustment upon obtaining complete
valuation information of intangible assets. We believe that finalization of the
purchase price allocation will not have a material impact on our results of
operations or financial position.



     The Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Data do not purport to be
indicative of what our financial position or results of operations would
actually have been had the transactions described above been completed on the
dates indicated or to project our results of operations for any future date.







- ---------------

(a) Includes results of operations for Marcus Holdings for the period from
    January 1, 1999 through March 31, 1999 and pro forma adjustments related to
    the issuance and refinancing of debt.

(b) Represents the allocation of 60.4% of the net loss of Charter Communications
    Holding Company to the minority interest. The net loss of Charter
    Communications Holding Company has been increased by the amount of the
    accretion of dividends on the preferred membership units in an indirect
    subsidiary of Charter Holdings held by certain Bresnan sellers.

(c) Basic and diluted loss per common share assumes none of the membership units
    of Charter Communications Holding Company or preferred membership units in
    an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications Holding Company, held by
    Bresnan sellers as of February 14, 2000, are exchanged for Charter
    Communications, Inc. common stock and none of the outstanding options to
    purchase membership units of Charter Communications Holding Company that are
    automatically exchanged for Charter Communications, Inc. common stock are
    exercised. Basic and diluted loss per common share equals net loss divided
    by weighted average common shares outstanding. If the membership units were
    exchanged or options exercised, the effects would be antidilutive.

(d) Represents all shares issued to the public and Mr. Allen in November 1999
    (195,550,000 shares) plus the additional shares issued to the Rifkin and
    Falcon sellers through February 14, 2000 (26,539,746 shares).

(e) Converted loss per common share assumes all membership units of Charter
    Communications Holding Company and preferred membership units in an indirect
    subsidiary of Charter Communications Holding Company held by Bresnan sellers
    as of February 14, 2000, are exchanged for Charter Communications, Inc.
    common stock. If all these shares are converted, minority interest would
    equal zero. Converted loss per common share is calculated by dividing loss
    before minority interest by the weighted average common shares
    outstanding -- converted.

(f) Weighted average common shares outstanding -- converted assumes the total
    membership units in Charter Communications Holding Company and in an
    indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications Holding Company held by
    Bresnan sellers are exchanged for Charter Communications, Inc. common stock.

(g) EBITDA represents earnings (loss) before interest, income taxes,
    depreciation, amortization and minority interest. EBITDA is presented
    because it is a widely accepted financial indicator of a cable



company's ability to service indebtedness. However, EBITDA should not be
considered as an alternative to income from operations or to cash flows from
operating, investing or financing activities, as determined in accordance with
     generally accepted accounting principles. EBITDA should also not be
     construed as an indication of a company's operating performance or as a
     measure of liquidity. Management's discretionary use of funds depicted by
     EBITDA may be limited by working capital, debt service and capital
     expenditure requirements and by restrictions related to legal requirements,
     commitments and uncertainties.

(h) EBITDA margin represents EBITDA as a percentage of revenues.

(i) Adjusted EBITDA means EBITDA before option compensation expense, corporate
    expense charges, management fees and other income (expense). Adjusted EBITDA
    is presented because it is a widely accepted financial indicator of a cable
    company's ability to service its indebtedness. However, adjusted EBITDA
    should not be considered as an alternative to income from operations or to
    cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as determined
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Adjusted EBITDA
    should also not be construed as an indication of a company's operating
    performance or as a measure of liquidity. In addition, because adjusted
    EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies, the presentation here
    may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
    Management's discretionary use of funds depicted by adjusted EBITDA may be
    limited by working capital, debt service and capital expenditure
    requirements and by restrictions related to legal requirements, commitments
    and uncertainties.

(j) Represents total members' equity of Charter Communications Holding Company,
    pro forma for the Bresnan acquisition, multiplied by 60.4%, which represents
    the ownership percentage of Charter Communications Holding Company not owned
    by Charter Communications, Inc., plus preferred equity interests outstanding
    issued to the Rifkin and Bresnan sellers.

(k) The Rifkin, Falcon, Helicon and Bresnan sellers who own equity interests in
    Charter Communications, Inc. and certain direct and indirect subsidiaries
    may have rescission rights arising out of possible violations of Section 5
    of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the offers and
    sales of those equity interests. Accordingly, the maximum potential cash
    obligation related to the rescission rights, estimated at $1.8 billion, has
    been excluded from stockholders' equity and minority interest, and
    classified as redeemable securities. One year after the dates of issuance of
    these equity interests (when these rescission rights will have expired), we
    will reclassify the respective amounts to stockholders' equity and minority
    interest. See "Certain Trends and Uncertainties -- Possible Rescission
    Liability."

          Pro forma revenues and adjusted EBITDA for the four quarters of 1999
     is as follows (in thousands):



- ---------------

(l) Homes passed are the number of living units, such as single residence homes,
    apartments and condominium units, passed by the cable television
    distribution network in a given cable system service area.

(m) Basic customers are customers who receive basic cable service.

(n) Basic penetration represents basic customers as a percentage of homes
    passed.

(o) Premium units represent the total number of subscriptions to premium
    channels.

(p) Premium penetration represents premium units as a percentage of basic
    customers.

(q) Average monthly revenue per basic customer represents revenues divided by
    the number of months in the period divided by the number of basic customers
    at period end.



     The following information presents the operating results for the fourth
quarter of 1999 as compared to the fourth quarter of 1998 for the cable systems
owned or managed by us as of October 1, 1998. For this analysis, the results of
the Marcus cable systems are included as Charter began managing these systems on
October 6, 1998.

            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND OPERATING DATA (UNAUDITED)
               (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT CUSTOMER DATA)



     Revenues increased by $26.2 million or 9.9% when comparing the revenues for
the three months ended December 31, 1999 to the results for the comparable
systems for the three months ended December 31, 1998. This increase is due to a
net gain of approximately 68,500 or 3.1% basic customers between quarters and
retail rate increases implemented in certain of our systems. The net gain of
3.1% for basic customer growth between the comparable periods was the weighted
average of 3.6% customer growth from the Charter systems and 2.4% growth
experienced by the Marcus cable systems. In addition, we have increased our
ratio of premium subscriptions to basic customers from 0.56 to 1.00 to 0.62 to
1.00 as a result of marketing multiple premium subscriptions in a packaged
format at a discounted retail rate.

     Total operating expenses increased approximately $10.7 million or 7.7% when
comparing the operating expenses for the quarter ended December 31, 1999 to the
results for the same systems for the quarter ended December 31, 1998. This
increase is primarily due to increases in license fees paid for programming as a
result of additional subscribers, new channels launched and increases in the
rates paid for programming services. We believe that the increases in
programming expense are consistent with industry-wide increases.

     We experienced growth in adjusted EBITDA of approximately $15.5 million or
12.3% when comparing adjusted EBITDA for the quarter ended December 31, 1999 to
the results for the same systems for the quarter



ended December 31, 1998. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 47.7% to 48.7%
when comparing the similar periods.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

INTEREST RATE RISK

     The use of interest rate risk management instruments, such as interest rate
exchange agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar
agreements is required under the terms of the credit facilities of our
subsidiaries. Our policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed and
variable rate debt. Using interest rate swap agreements, we agree to exchange,
at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest
amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount.
Interest rate cap agreements are used to lock in a maximum interest rate should
variable rates rise, but enable us to otherwise pay lower market rates. Collars
limit our exposure to and benefits from interest rate fluctuations on variable
rate debt to within a certain range of rates.

     Our participation in interest rate hedging transactions involves
instruments that have a close correlation with its debt, thereby managing its
risk. Interest rate hedge agreements have been designed for hedging purposes and
are not held or issued for speculative purposes.

     The table set forth below summarizes the fair values and contract terms of
financial instruments subject to interest rate risk maintained by us as of
December 31, 1999 (dollars in thousands):



     The notional amounts of interest rate instruments, as presented in the
above table, are used to measure interest to be paid or received and do not
represent the amount of exposure to credit loss. The estimated fair value
approximates the costs (proceeds) to settle the outstanding contracts. Interest
rates on variable debt are estimated using the average implied forward London
Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) rates for the year of maturity based on the
yield curve in effect at December 31, 1999. While swaps, caps and collars
represent an integral part of our interest rate risk management program, their
incremental effect on interest expense for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998, and 1997 was not significant.

ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     Our consolidated financial statements, predecessor financial statements and
certain financial statements of entities or cable systems we acquired (as
required to comply with the application of Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X and Staff
Accounting Bulletin 80), the related notes thereto, and the reports of
independent auditors are included in this Annual Report beginning of page F-1.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The information required by this Item that is not set forth below is
incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.

     Information regarding our executive officers is set forth below.

     Except for Mr. Riddle, our executive officers were appointed to their
position shortly after our formation in July 1999, and became employees of
Charter Communications, Inc. upon completion of our initial public offering.
Prior to that time, they were employees of Charter Investment, Inc. All of our
executive officers simultaneously serve in the same capacity with Charter
Investment, Inc.

     JERALD L. KENT, 43, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kent
co-founded Charter Investments, Inc., in 1993, Mr. Kent was executive vice
president and chief financial officer of Cencom Cable Associates, Inc. where he
previously held other executive positions. Earlier he was with Arthur Andersen
LLP, where he attained the position of tax manager. Mr. Kent, a certified public
accountant, received a bachelors degree and a M.A. from Washington University.

     DAVID G. BARFORD, 41, Senior Vice President of Operations -- Western
Division.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1995, Mr. Barford held
various senior marketing and operating roles during nine years at Comcast Cable
Communications, Inc. He received a B.A. from California State University,
Fullerton, and an M.B.A. from National University.

     MARY PAT BLAKE, 44, Senior Vice President -- Marketing and
Programming.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1995, Ms. Blake was
active in the emerging business sector and formed Blake Investments, Inc. in
1993. She has 18 years of experience with senior management responsibilities in
marketing, sales, finance, systems, and general management. Ms. Blake received a
B.S. from the University of Minnesota and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business
School.

     ERIC A. FREESMEIER, 47, Senior Vice President -- Administration.  From 1986
until joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1998, Mr. Freesmeier served in various
executive management positions at Edison Brothers Stores, Inc. Earlier he held
management and executive positions at Montgomery Ward. Mr. Freesmeier holds
bachelor's degrees from the University of Iowa and a master's degree from
Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.

     THOMAS R. JOKERST, 50, Senior Vice President -- Advanced Technology
Development.  Mr. Jokerst joined Charter Investment, Inc. in 1994. Previously he
served as a vice president of Cable Television Laboratories and as a regional
director of engineering for Continental Cablevision. He is a graduate of Ranken
Technical Institute and of Southern Illinois University.

     KENT D. KALKWARF, 40, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1995, Mr. Kalkwarf was
employed for 13 years by Arthur Andersen LLP, where he attained the position of
senior tax manager. He has extensive experience in cable, real estate, and
international tax issues. Mr. Kalkwarf has a B.S. from Illinois Wesleyan
University and is a certified public accountant.

     RALPH G. KELLY, 43, Senior Vice President -- Treasurer.  Prior to joining
Charter Investment, Inc. in 1993, Mr. Kelly was controller and then treasurer of
Cencom Cable Associates. He left Charter in 1994, to become chief financial
officer of CableMaxx, Inc., and returned in 1996. Mr. Kelly received his
bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Missouri -- Columbia and
his M.B.A. from Saint Louis University.

     DAVID L. MCCALL, 44, Senior Vice President of Operations -- Eastern
Division.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1995, Mr. McCall was
associated with Crown Cable and its predecessor company, Cencom Cable
Associates, Inc., from 1983 to 1994. Mr. McCall has served as a director of the
South Carolina Cable Television Association for the past ten years and is a
member of the Southern Cable Association's Tower Club.



     JOHN C. PIETRI, 50, Senior Vice President -- Engineering.  Prior to joining
Charter Investment, Inc. in 1998, Mr. Pietri was with Marcus Cable for 8 years,
most recently serving as senior vice president and chief technical officer.
Earlier he was in operations with West Marc Communications and Minnesota Utility
Contracting. Mr. Pietri attended the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh.

     MICHAEL E. RIDDLE, 41, Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer.  Prior to joining Charter Communications, Inc. in 1999, Mr. Riddle was
director, applied technologies of Cox Communications for four years. Prior to
that, he held technical and management positions during four years at
Southwestern Bell and its subsidiaries. Mr. Riddle attended Fort Hays State
University.

     STEVEN A. SCHUMM, 47, Executive Vice President, Assistant to the
President.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1998, Mr. Schumm was
managing partner of the St. Louis office of Ernst & Young LLP, where he was a
partner for 14 of 24 years. He served as one of 10 members of the firm's
National Tax Committee. Mr. Schumm earned a B.S. degree from Saint Louis
University.

     CURTIS S. SHAW, 51, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary.  Prior to joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1997, Mr. Shaw served
as corporate counsel to NYNEX since 1988. He has over 25 years of experience as
a corporate lawyer, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures,
public offerings, financings, and federal securities and antitrust law. Mr. Shaw
received a B.A. from Trinity College and a J.D. from Columbia University School
of Law.

     STEPHEN E. SILVA, 40, Senior Vice President -- Corporate Development and
Technology.  From 1983 until joining Charter Investment, Inc. in 1995, Mr. Silva
served in various management positions at U.S. Computer Services, Inc. He is a
member of the board of directors of High Speed Access Corp.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report:

     (1)  Financial Statements.

        A listing of the financial statements, notes and reports of independent
        public accountants required by Item 8 begins on page F-1 of this Annual
        Report.

     (2)  Financial Statement Schedules.

        No financial statement schedules are required to be filed by Items 8 and
        14(d) because they are not required or are not applicable, or the
        required information is set forth in the applicable financial statements
        or notes thereto.

     (3)  Exhibits (listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item
          601 in Regulation S-K).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

     On November 29, 1999, the Registrant filed a current report on Form 8-K
     related to the acquisition of cable systems of Fanch Cablevision L.P. and
     affiliates on November 12, 1999 and the acquisition of Avalon Cable LLC on
     November 15, 1999, reported in part I, Item 2 thereof, as follows:

     1.    Charter Communications Holding Company, acquired certain equity
        interest and assets of cable systems serving approximately 538,000
        customers for an aggregate purchase price of $2.4 billion, and

     2.    Charter Communications Holding Company, completed its acquisition of
        Avalon for an aggregate purchase price of $845 million including assumed
        debt of approximately $273.3 million.

     On November 29, 1999, the Registrant filed a current report on Form 8-K
     related to the acquisition of Falcon Communications, L.P. and affiliates on
     November 12, 1999, reported in part I, Item 2 thereof, as follows:

     1.    Charter Communications Holding Company, acquired certain equity
        interest and assets of cable systems serving approximately 1,004,000
        customers in exchange for cash of approximately $1.2 billion, $550
        million of equity in Charter Communications Holding Company and $1.7
        billion of assumed debt.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Charter Communications, Inc. has duly caused this Annual
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.,
                                          Registrant

                                          By: /s/ Jerald L. Kent
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Jerald L. Kent
                                          President and
                                          Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 28, 2000



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Charter
Communications, Inc. and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX





















- ---------------

   + Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for
     confidential treatment.

 (1) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 2 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter
     Communications Holdings Capital Corporation filed on June 22, 1999 (File
     No. 333-77499).

 (2) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 4 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter
     Communications Holdings Capital Corporation filed on July 22, 1999 (File
     No. 333-77499).

 (3) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 4 to the registration statement
     on Form S-1 of Charter Communications, Inc. filed on 11/1/99 (File No.
     333-83887).

 (4) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 3 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter
     Communications Holdings Capital Corporation filed on July 2, 1999 (File No.
     333-77499).

 (5) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 6 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter
     Communications Holdings Capital Corporation filed on August 27, 1999 (File
     No. 333-77499).

 (6) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 3 to the registration statement
     on Form S-1 of Charter Communications, Inc. filed on 10/18/99 (File No.
     333-83887).

 (7) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 5 to the registration Statement
     on Form S-1 of Charter Communications, Inc. filed on 11/4/99 (File No.
     333-83887).

 (8) Incorporated by reference to the report on Form 8-K of Charter
     Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter Communications Holdings Capital
     Corporation filed on January 18, 2000 (File No. 333-77499).

 (9) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 1 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Avalon Cable of Michigan LLC, Avalon Cable of Michigan Inc.,
     Avalon Cable of New England LLC and Avalon Cable Finance Inc. filed on May
     28, 1999 (File No. 333-75453).

(10) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 2 to the registration statement
     on Form S-1 of Charter Communications, Inc. filed on September 28, 1999
     (File No. 333-83887).

(11) Incorporated by reference to the quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by
     Falcon Communications, L.P. and Falcon Funding Corporation on August 13,
     1999 (File Nos. 333-60776 and 333-55755).

(12) Incorporated by reference to the report on Form 8-K of CC VII Holdings, LLC
     and Falcon Funding Corporation filed on November 26, 1999 (File No.
     033-60776).


(13) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 5 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter
     Communications Holdings Capital Corporation filed on August 10, 1999 (File
     No. 333-77499).

(14) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Forms S-4 and
     S-1 of Renaissance Media Group LLC, Renaissance Media (Tennessee) LLC,
     Renaissance Media (Louisiana) LLC and Renaissance Media Capital Corporation
     filed on June 12, 1998 (File No. 333-56679).

(15) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Form S-1 of
     Rifkin Acquisition Capital Corp. and Rifkin Acquisition Partners, L.L.L.P.
     filed on April 2, 1996 (File No. 333-3084).

(16) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Form S-4 of
     Bresnan Communications Group LLC and Bresnan Capital Corporation filed on
     May 3, 1999 (File No. 333-77637).

(17) Incorporated by reference to the report on Form 8-K of Charter
     Communications, Inc. filed on November 29, 1999 (File No. 333-83887).

(18) Incorporated by reference to the report on Form 8-K of Charter
     Communications, Inc. filed on November 29, 1999 (File No. 333-83887).

(19) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 1 to the registration statement
     on Form S-4 of Avalon Cable LLC, Avalon Cable Holdings Finance, Inc.,
     Avalon Cable of Michigan Holdings, Inc. and Avalon Cable of Michigan, Inc.
     filed on May 28, 1999 (File No. 333-75415).

(20) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Form S-4 of
     Falcon Holding Group, L.P. filed on April 18, 1993 (File No. 33-60776).

(21) Incorporated by reference to the report on Form 8-K of Charter
     Communications, Inc. filed on February 29, 2000 (File No. 333-83887).

(22) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Form S-4 of
     Charter Communications Holdings, LLC and Charter Communications Holdings
     Capital Corporation filed on January 25, 2000 (File No. 333-77499).


                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                       F-1




                                       F-2




                                       F-3


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Charter
Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity
and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from
December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the
financial statements of Charter Communications VI Operating Company, LLC and
subsidiaries, and CC VII -- Falcon Systems, as of December 31, 1999, and for the
periods from the dates of acquisition through December 31, 1999, which
statements on a combined basis reflect total assets and total revenues of 31
percent and 6 percent, respectively, of the related consolidated totals of the
Company. Those statements were audited by other auditors whose reports have been
furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included
for those entities, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the reports of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Charter Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24,
1998, through December 31, 1998, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
 March 2, 2000

                                       F-4


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Charter Communications VI
Operating Company, LLC

     We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of Charter Communications VI
Operating Company, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, member's equity and cash flows for the
period from inception (November 9, 1999) to December 31, 1999 (not presented
separately herein). These financial statements are the responsibility of
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Charter
Communications VI Operating Company, LLC and subsidiaries at December 31, 1999,
and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the period
from November 9, 1999 to December 31, 1999 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.
                                                 /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 11, 2000

                                       F-5


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Sole Member
CC VII Holdings, LLC

     We have audited the combined balance sheet of the CC VII -- Falcon Systems
as of December 31, 1999, and the related combined statements of operations and
parent's investment and cash flows for the period from November 13, 1999
(commencement date) to December 31, 1999 (not presented separately herein).
These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined
financial statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of the CC
VII -- Falcon Systems at December 31, 1999 and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for the period from November 13, 1999 (commencement date) to
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Los Angeles, California
March 2, 2000

                                       F-6


                 CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                       F-7


                 CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                   (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                       F-8


                 CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                       F-9


                 CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                      F-10


                 CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION:

Charter Communications, Inc.

     On July 22, 1999, Charter Investment, Inc. (Charter Investment), a company
controlled by Paul G. Allen, formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Charter
Communications, Inc. (Charter), a Delaware corporation, with a nominal initial
investment.

     On November 12, 1999, Charter sold 195.5 million shares of Class A common
stock in an initial public offering and 50,000 shares of high vote Class B
common stock to Mr. Allen. The net proceeds from the offerings of approximately
$3.55 billion were used to purchase membership units of Charter Communications
Holding Company, LLC (Charter Holdco), except for a portion of the proceeds that
were retained by Charter to acquire a portion of the equity interests of Avalon
Cable of Michigan Holdings, Inc. (Avalon). In exchange for the contribution of
the net proceeds from the offerings and equity interests of Avalon, Charter
received 195.55 million membership units of Charter Holdco on November 12, 1999,
representing a 100% voting interest and an approximate 40.6% economic interest.

     Prior to November 12, 1999, Charter Holdco was owned 100% by Charter
Investment and Vulcan Cable III Inc. (Vulcan Cable), both entities controlled by
Mr. Allen. Subsequent to November 12, 1999, Mr. Allen controls Charter through
his ownership of all of the high vote Class B common stock and Charter controls
Charter Holdco through its ownership of all the voting interests. Charter's
purchase of 50,000 membership units of Charter Holdco was accounted for as a
reorganization of entities under common control similar to a pooling of
interests. Accordingly, beginning December 23, 1998, the date Mr. Allen first
controlled Charter Holdco, the assets and liabilities of Charter Holdco are
reflected in the consolidated financial statements of Charter at Mr. Allen's
basis and minority interest is recorded representing that portion of the
economic interests not owned by Charter. For financial reporting purposes,
50,000 of the membership units previously issued by Charter Holdco to companies
controlled by Mr. Allen are considered held by Charter effective December 23,
1998, representing an economic interest of less than 1%.

     Charter is a holding company whose sole asset is a controlling equity
interest in Charter Holdco, an indirect owner of cable systems. Charter and
Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the Company.

     The Company owns and operates cable systems serving approximately 6.1
million (unaudited) customers, including customers from the Bresnan acquisition
(see Note 21) completed in February 2000. The Company offers a full range of
traditional cable television services and has begun to offer digital cable
television services, interactive video programming and high-speed Internet
access.

Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC

     Charter Holdco, a Delaware limited liability company, was formed in
February 1999 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Investment. Charter
Investment through its wholly owned subsidiary, Charter Communications
Properties Holdings, LLC (CCPH), commenced operations with the acquisition of a
cable system on September 30, 1995.

     Effective December 23, 1998, through a series of transactions, Mr. Allen
acquired approximately 94% of Charter Investment for an aggregate purchase price
of $2.2 billion, excluding $2.0 billion in debt assumed (the "Paul Allen
Transaction"). In conjunction with the Paul Allen Transaction, Charter
Investment acquired, for fair value from unrelated third parties, all of the
interests it did not already own in CharterComm Holdings, LLC (CharterComm
Holdings) and CCA Group (comprised of CCA Holdings Corp., CCT Holdings Corp. and
Charter Communications Long Beach, Inc.), all cable television operating
companies, for $2.0 billion, excluding $1.8 billion in debt assumed. Charter
Investment previously managed and owned minority interests

                                      F-11


in these companies. These acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting and accordingly, results of operations of CharterComm
Holdings and CCA Group are included in the financial statements from the date of
acquisition. In February 1999, Charter Investment transferred all of its cable
television operating subsidiaries to a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter
Communications Holdings, LLC (Charter Holdings), Charter Communications
Operating, LLC (Charter Operating). Charter Holdings is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Holdco. This transfer was accounted for as a
reorganization of entities under common control similar to a pooling of
interests.

     As a result of the change in ownership of CCPH, CharterComm Holdings and
CCA Group, Charter Holdco has applied push-down accounting in the preparation of
its consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, on December 23, 1998,
Charter Holdco increased its members' equity by $2.2 billion to reflect the
amounts paid by Mr. Allen and Charter Investment. The purchase price was
allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their relative
fair values, including amounts assigned to franchises of $3.6 billion.

     On April 23, 1998, Mr. Allen and a company controlled by Mr. Allen,
(collectively, the "Mr. Allen Companies") purchased substantially all of the
outstanding partnership interests in Marcus Cable Company, L.L.C. (Marcus Cable)
for $1.4 billion, excluding $1.8 billion in assumed liabilities. The owner of
the remaining partnership interest retained voting control of Marcus Cable. In
February 1999, Marcus Cable Holdings, LLC (Marcus Holdings) was formed, and Mr.
Allen's interests in Marcus Cable were transferred to Marcus Holdings on March
15, 1999. On March 31, 1999, Mr. Allen purchased the remaining partnership
interests in Marcus Cable, including voting control. On April 7, 1999, Marcus
Holdings was merged into Charter Holdings and Marcus Cable was transferred to
Charter Holdings. For financial reporting purposes, the merger was accounted for
as an acquisition of Marcus Cable effective March 31, 1999, the date Mr. Allen
obtained voting control of Marcus Cable. Accordingly, the results of operations
of Marcus Cable have been included in the consolidated financial statements from
April 1, 1999. The assets and liabilities of Marcus Cable have been recorded in
the consolidated financial statements using historical carrying values reflected
in the accounts of the Mr. Allen Companies. Total member's equity of Charter
Holdco increased by $1.3 billion as a result of the Marcus Cable acquisition.
Previously, on April 23, 1998, the Mr. Allen Companies recorded the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed of Marcus Cable based on their relative fair
values.

     The consolidated financial statements of Charter Holdco include the
accounts of Charter Operating and CCPH, the accounts of CharterComm Holdings and
CCA Group and their subsidiaries since December 23, 1998 (date acquired by
Charter Investment), and the accounts of Marcus Cable since March 31, 1999. All
subsidiaries are indirect wholly owned by Charter Holdco. All material
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. These investments are
carried at cost that approximates market value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, including all direct and
certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television
transmission and distribution facilities, and the cost of new customer
installations. The costs of disconnecting a customer are charged to expense in
the period incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to
expense as incurred, while equipment replacement and betterments are
capitalized.

                                      F-12


     Depreciation is provided on the straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets as follows:



Franchises

     Costs incurred in obtaining and renewing cable franchises are deferred and
amortized over the lives of the franchises. Costs relating to unsuccessful
franchise applications are charged to expense when it is determined that the
efforts to obtain the franchise will not be successful. Franchise rights
acquired through the purchase of cable systems represent management's estimate
of fair value and are generally amortized using the straight-line method over a
period of 15 years. The period of 15 years is management's best estimate of the
useful lives of the franchises and assumes substantially all of those franchises
that expire during the period will be renewed by the Company. Accumulated
amortization related to franchises was $650.5 million and $5.3 million, as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Amortization expense related to
franchises for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from
December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, was $520.0 million and $5.3
million, respectively.

Deferred Financing Costs

     Costs related to borrowings are deferred and amortized to interest expense
using the effective interest method over the terms of the related borrowings. As
of December 31, 1999, others assets include $120.7 million of deferred financing
costs, net of accumulated amortization of $10.3 million.

Impairment of Assets

     If facts and circumstances suggest that a long-lived asset may be impaired,
the carrying value is reviewed. If a review indicates that the carrying value of
such asset is not recoverable based on projected undiscounted net cash flows
related to the asset over its remaining life, the carrying value of such asset
is reduced to its estimated fair value.

Revenues

     Cable television revenues from basic and premium services are recognized
when the related services are provided.

     Installation revenues are recognized to the extent of direct selling costs
incurred. The remainder, if any, is deferred and amortized to income over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable system. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, no installation revenue has been
deferred, as direct selling costs have exceeded installation revenue.

     Local governmental authorities impose franchise fees on the Company ranging
up to a federally mandated maximum of 5.0% of gross revenues. Such fees are
collected on a monthly basis, from the Company's customers and are periodically
remitted to local franchise authorities. Franchise fees collected and paid are
reported as revenues and expenses.

Channel Launch Payments

     The Company receives upfront payments from certain programmers to launch
and promote new cable television channels. A portion of these payments
represents reimbursement of advertising costs paid by the Company to promote the
new channels. These reimbursements have been immaterial. The remaining portion
is being amortized as an offset to programming expense over the respective terms
of the program agreements which range from one to 20 years. For the year ended
December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998, through December
31, 1998, the Company amortized and recorded as a reduction of

                                      F-13


programming costs $3.4 million and $12, respectively. As of December 31, 1999,
the unamortized portion of payments received totaled $13.4 million and is
included in other long-term liabilities.

Direct Response Advertising

     The Company expenses the production costs of advertising as incurred,
except for direct response advertising, which is deferred and amortized over its
expected period of future benefits. Direct response advertising consists
primarily of direct mailings and radio, newspaper and cross-channel television
advertisements that include a phone number for use in ordering the Company's
products and services. The deferred advertising costs are amortized to
advertising expense over the periods during which the future benefits are
expected to be received. The periods range from two to four years depending on
the type of service the customer subscribes to and represents the period the
customer is expected to remain connected to the cable system. As of December 31,
1999, $700 of deferred advertising costs is included in other assets.
Advertising expense was $30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 1999,
including amortization of deferred advertising costs totaling $87.

Investments and Other Comprehensive Income

     Investments in equity securities are accounted for in accordance with SFAS
No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The
Company owns common stock of WorldGate Communications, Inc. (WorldGate) that is
classified as "available for sale" and reported at market value with unrealized
gains and losses recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income. Based on
quoted market prices, the investment was valued at $5.4 million as of December
31, 1999, and is included in other assets. Comprehensive loss for the year ended
December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998, through December
31, 1998, was $64.8 million and $2, respectively.

Interest Rate Hedge Agreements

     The Company manages fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate
hedge agreements, as required by certain debt agreements. Interest rate swaps,
caps and collars are accounted for as hedges of debt obligations, and
accordingly, the net settlement amounts are recorded as adjustments to interest
expense in the period incurred. Premiums paid for interest rate caps are
deferred, included in other assets, and are amortized over the original term of
the interest rate agreement as an adjustment to interest expense.

     The Company's interest rate swap agreements require the Company to pay a
fixed rate and receive a floating rate thereby creating fixed rate debt.
Interest rate caps and collars are entered into by the Company to reduce the
impact of rising interest rates on floating rate debt.

     The Company's participation in interest rate hedging transactions involves
instruments that have a close correlation with its debt, thereby managing its
risk. Interest rate hedge agreements have been designated for hedging purposes
and are not held or issued for speculative purposes.

Income Taxes

     Substantially all of the taxable income, gains, losses, deductions and
credits of Charter Holdco are passed through to its partners, Charter
Investment, Vulcan Cable and Charter. Prior to November 12, 1999, income taxes
were the responsibility of the owners of Charter Investment and Vulcan Cable and
are not provided for in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Beginning November 12, 1999, Charter is responsible for its share of taxable
income (loss) of Charter Holdco allocated to Charter in accordance with
partnership tax rules and regulations. The tax basis of Charter's investment in
Charter Holdco is not materially different than the carrying value of the
investment for financial reporting purposes as of December 31, 1999.

     Charter Holdco's limited liability company agreement provides that through
the end of 2003, tax losses of Charter Holdco that would otherwise have been
allocated to Charter will instead be allocated to the membership units held by
Vulcan Cable and Charter Investment. At the time Charter first becomes
profitable (as determined under the applicable federal income tax rules), the
profits that would otherwise have been

                                      F-14


allocated to Charter will instead be allocated to the membership units held by
Vulcan Cable and Charter Investment until the tax benefits are fully restored.
Management does not expect Charter Holdco to generate tax profits in the
foreseeable future.

Segments

     In 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. Segments have been identified based upon
management responsibility. The individual segments have been aggregated into one
segment, cable services.

Loss per Common Share

     For purposes of the loss per common share calculation for the period from
December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, Mr. Allen's 50,000 shares of high
vote Class B common stock are considered to be outstanding for the entire
period. Basic loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by
50,000 shares for 1998 and 29,811,202 shares for 1999, representing the weighted
average common shares outstanding during 1999. Diluted loss per common share
equals basic loss per common share for the periods presented, as the effect of
stock options is anti-dilutive because the Company generated net losses. All
membership units of Charter Holdco are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into
common stock of Charter at the option of the holders. Should the holders
exchange units for shares, the effect would not be dilutive.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United Sates requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

3. ACQUISITIONS:

     During 1999, the Company acquired cable systems in 11 separate transactions
for an aggregate purchase price, of $7.6 billion, net of cash acquired,
excluding debt assumed of $2.5 billion. In connection with two of the
acquisitions, Charter Holdco issued equity interests totaling $683.3 million.
The purchase prices were allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their relative fair values, including amounts assigned to franchises of
$9.7 billion. The allocation of the purchase prices for these acquisitions are
based, in part, on preliminary information, which is subject to adjustment upon
obtaining complete valuation information. Management believes that finalization
of the purchase prices and allocation will not have a material impact on the
consolidated results of operations or financial position of the Company.

     The above acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting, and accordingly, results of operations of the acquired assets have
been included in the financial statements from the dates of acquisition.

     Unaudited pro forma operating results of the Company as though the
acquisitions discussed above, including the Paul Allen Transaction and the
acquisition of Marcus Holdings, and the initial public offering of common stock
and the March 1999 refinancing of debt discussed herein, had occurred on January
1, 1998,

                                      F-15


with adjustments to give effect to amortization of franchises, interest expense,
minority interest and certain other adjustments are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma financial information has been presented for
comparative purposes and does not purport to be indicative of the results of
operations had these transactions been completed as of the assumed date or which
may be obtained in the future.

4. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS:

     Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is summarized as follows:



5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

     Property, plant and equipment consists of the following at December 31:



     For the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24,
1998, through December 31, 1998, depreciation expense was $225.0 million and
$2.8 million, respectively.

                                      F-16


6. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES:

     Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following at December
31:



     The liability for pending transfer of cable system represents the fair
value of a cable system to be transferred upon obtaining necessary regulatory
approvals in connection with the transaction with InterMedia Capital Partners IV
L. P., InterMedia Partners and their affiliates. Such approvals were
subsequently obtained and the system assets were transferred in March 2000.

                                      F-17


7. LONG-TERM DEBT:

     Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:



     In March 1999, Charter Holdings and Marcus Holdings extinguished
substantially all existing long-term debt, excluding borrowings under its credit
agreements, and refinanced substantially all existing credit agreements at
various subsidiaries with a new credit agreement entered into by Charter
Operating (the "Charter Operating Credit Facilities").

Charter Holdings Notes

     In March 1999, Charter Holdings and Charter Communications Holdings Capital
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter Holdings, (collectively, the
"Issuers") issued $600.0 million 8.250% Senior Notes due 2007 (the "8.250%
Senior Notes") for net proceeds of $598.4 million, $1.5 billion 8.625% Senior
Notes due 2009 (the "8.625% Senior Notes") for net proceeds of $1,495.4 million,
and $1,475.0 million 9.920% Senior Discount Notes due 2011 (the "9.920% Senior
Discount Notes") for net proceeds of $905.5 million, (collectively with the
8.250% Senior Notes and the 8.625% Senior Notes, referred to as the "Charter
Holdings Notes").

     The 8.250% Senior Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. Interest is
payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1, beginning October 1,
1999 until maturity.

     The 8.625% Senior Notes are redeemable at the option of the Issuers at
amounts decreasing from 104.313% to 100% of par value beginning on April 1,
2004, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the date of

                                      F-18


redemption. At any time prior to April 1, 2002, the Company may redeem up to 35%
of the aggregate principal amount of the 8.625% Senior Notes at a redemption
price of 108.625% of the principal amount under certain conditions. Interest is
payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1, beginning October 1,
1999, until maturity.

     The 9.920% Senior Discount Notes are redeemable at the option of the
Issuers at amounts decreasing from 104.960% to 100% of accreted value beginning
April 1, 2004. At any time prior to April 1, 2002, the Issuers may redeem up to
35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 9.920% Senior Discount Notes at a
redemption price of 109.920% of the accreted value under certain conditions.
Thereafter, cash interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and
October 1 beginning April 1, 2004, until maturity. The discount on the 9.920%
Senior Discount Notes is being accreted using the effective interest method. The
unamortized discount was $497.2 million at December 31, 1999.

     The Charter Holdings Notes rank equally with current and future unsecured
and unsubordinated indebtedness (including accounts payables of the Company).
The Issuers are required to make an offer to repurchase all of the Charter
Holdings Notes, at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal or 101% of
the accreted value, together with accrued and unpaid interest, upon a change of
control of the Company.

Renaissance Notes

     In connection with the acquisition of Renaissance Media Group LLC
(Renaissance) during the second quarter of 1999, the Company assumed $163.2
million principal amount at maturity of senior discount notes due April 2008
(the "Renaissance Notes"). As a result of the change in control of Renaissance,
the Company was required to make an offer to repurchase the Renaissance Notes at
101% of their accreted value. In May 1999, the Company made an offer to
repurchase the Renaissance Notes pursuant to this requirement, and the holders
of the Renaissance Notes tendered an amount representing 30% of the total
outstanding principal amount at maturity for repurchase. These notes were
repurchased using a portion of the proceeds from the Charter Holdings Notes.

     As of December 31, 1999, $114.4 million aggregate principal amount at
maturity of Renaissance Notes with an accreted value of $83.0 million remain
outstanding. Interest on the Renaissance Notes shall be paid semi-annually at a
rate of 10% per annum beginning on October 15, 2003.

     The Renaissance Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole
or in part, at any time on or after April 15, 2003, initially at 105% of their
principal amount at maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest, declining to
100% of the principal amount at maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on
or after April 15, 2006. In addition, at any time prior to April 15, 2001, the
Company may redeem up to 35% of the original principal amount at maturity with
the proceeds of one or more sales of membership units at 110% of their accreted
value, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the redemption date, provided that
after any such redemption, at least $106 million aggregate principal amount at
maturity remains outstanding.

Rifkin Notes

     The Company acquired Rifkin Acquisition Partners L.L.L.P. and InterLink
Communications, Partners, LLLP (collectively, "Rifkin") in September 1999 and
assumed Rifkin's 11.125% senior subordinated notes due 2006 (the "Rifkin Notes")
together with a $3.0 million promissory note payable to Monroe Rifkin,. Interest
on the Rifkin Notes is payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each
year. In September 1999, the Company commenced an offer to repurchase any and
all of the outstanding Rifkin Notes, for cash at a premium over the principal
amounts. In conjunction with this tender offer, the Company sought and obtained
the consent of a majority in principal amount of the note holders of the
outstanding Rifkin Notes to proposed amendments to the indenture governing the
Rifkin Notes, which eliminated substantially all of the restrictive covenants.
In October 1999, the Company repurchased a portion of the Rifkin Notes with a
total outstanding principal amount of $124.1 million for a total of $140.6
million, including a consent fee to the holders who delivered timely consents
amending the indenture, and repurchased the promissory note issued to Monroe
Rifkin for $3.4 million. These notes were paid using borrowings from

                                      F-19


the Charter Operating Credit Facilities. At December 31, 1999, $900 aggregate
principal of Rifkin Notes remain outstanding.

Avalon Notes

     The Company acquired CC V Holdings, LLC (Avalon) (formerly known as Avalon
Cable LLC) in November 1999 and assumed Avalon's 11.875% Senior Discount Notes
Due 2008 (the "Avalon 11.875% Notes") and 9.375% Subordinated Notes Due 2008
(the "Avalon 9.375% Notes"). As of December 31, 1999, $196.0 million aggregate
principal amount of the Avalon 11.875% Notes with an accreted value of $124.8
million and $150.0 million principal amount of the Avalon 9.375% Notes were
outstanding. After December 1, 2003, cash interest on the Avalon 11.875% Notes
will be payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 2004.

     On December 3, 1999, the Company commenced a change of control offer with
respect to the Avalon 9.375% Notes and a change of control offer with respect to
the Avalon 11.875% Notes at purchase prices of 101% of principal amount or
accreted value, as applicable. In January 2000, the Company completed the
repurchase of the Avalon 9.375% Notes with a total outstanding principal amount
of $134.0 million for a total of $137.4 million. In addition to the change of
control repurchase, the Company repurchased the remaining outstanding principal
amount of $16.0 million in the open market for $16.3 million. Also in January
2000, the Company repurchased a portion of the Avalon 11.875% Notes with a total
outstanding principal amount of $16.3 million for a total of $10.5 million. The
repurchase of the Avalon 9.375% Notes and the Avalon 11.875% Notes was funded by
a portion of the cash proceeds from the issuance of additional notes by Charter
Holdings in January 2000 (the "January 2000 Charter Holdings Notes"). Avalon
11.875% Notes with a total principal amount at maturity of $179.8 million and an
accreted value of $116.4 million remain outstanding after the repurchases.

Falcon Debentures

     The Company acquired CC VII Holdings, LLC (Falcon) (formerly known as
Falcon Communications, L.P.) in November 1999 and assumed Falcon's 8.375% Senior
Debentures Due 2010 (the "Falcon 8.375% Debentures") and 9.285% Senior Discount
Debentures Due 2010 (the "Falcon 9.285% Debentures", collectively, with the
Falcon 8.375% Debentures, the "Falcon Debentures"). As of December 31, 1999,
$375.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Falcon 8.375% Debentures and
$435.3 million aggregate principal amount of the Falcon 9.285% Debentures, with
an accreted value of $323.0 million were outstanding.

     On December 10, 1999, the Company commenced change of control offers and
offered to repurchase the Falcon Debentures at purchase prices of 101% of
principal amount, plus unpaid and accrued interest, or accreted value, as
applicable. In February 2000, the Company completed the repurchase of the Falcon
8.375% Debentures with a total outstanding principal amount of $317.4 million
for a total of $328.6 million. In addition to the change of control repurchase,
the Company repurchased the Falcon 8.375% Debentures with a total outstanding
principal amount of $57.6 million in the open market for $59.4 million. Also, in
February 2000, the Company repurchased the Falcon 9.285% Debentures with an
aggregate principal amount of $230.0 million for a total of $173.8 million. In
addition to the change of control repurchase, the Company repurchased the Falcon
9.285% Debentures with an aggregate principal amount of $205.3 million in the
open market for $154.3 million. The repurchase of all the Falcon Debentures was
funded by a portion of the proceeds from the January 2000 Charter Holdings
Notes.

Helicon Notes

     The Company acquired Helicon I, L.P. and affiliates (Helicon) in July 1999
and assumed Helicon's 11% Senior Secured Notes due 2003 (the "Helicon Notes").
On November 1, 1999, the Company redeemed all of the Helicon Notes at a purchase
price equal to 103% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest, for $124.8
million using borrowings from the Charter Operating Credit Facilities.

                                      F-20


Charter Operating Credit Facilities

     The Charter Operating Credit Facilities provide for two term facilities,
one with a principal amount of $1.0 billion that matures September 2007 (Term
A), and the other with the principal amount of $1.85 billion that matures March
2008 (Term B). The Charter Operating Credit Facilities also provide for a $1.25
billion revolving credit facility with a maturity date of September 2007 and at
the options of the lenders, supplemental credit facilities, in the amount of
$500.0 million available until March 18, 2002. Amounts under the Charter
Operating Credit Facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar
rate, as defined, plus a margin of up to 2.75% (8.22% to 8.97% as of December
31, 1999). A quarterly commitment fee of between 0.25% and 0.375% per annum is
payable on the unborrowed balance of Term A and the revolving credit facility.
As of December 31, 1999, the unused availability was $1.2 billion. In March
2000, the credit agreement was amended to increase the amount of the
supplemental credit facility to $1.0 billion. In connection with this amendment,
$600.0 million of the supplemental credit facility (the "Incremental Term Loan")
was drawn down. The Incremental Term Loan maturity date is September 18, 2008.

Avalon Credit Facilities

     In connection with the Avalon acquisition, the Company entered into a new
credit agreement (the "Avalon Credit Facilities"). The Avalon Credit Facilities
have maximum borrowings of $300.0 million, consisting of a revolving facility in
the amount of $175.0 million that matures May 15, 2008, and a Term B loan in the
amount of $125.0 million that matures on November 15, 2008. The Avalon Credit
Facilities also provide for, at the options of the lenders, supplemental credit
facilities in the amounts of $75 million available until December 31, 2003. All
amounts mature in June 2008. Amounts under the Avalon Credit Facilities bear
interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar rate, as defined, plus a margin up
to 2.75% (7.995% to 8.870% as of December 31, 1999). A quarterly commitment fee
of between 0.250% and 0.375% per annum is payable on the unborrowed balance. The
Company borrowed $170.0 million under the Avalon Credit Facilities to fund a
portion of the Avalon purchase price. As of December 31, 1999, unused
availability was $ 130.0 million.

Fanch Credit Facilities

     In connection with the acquisition of cable systems of Fanch Cablevision
L.P. and affiliates (Fanch), the Company entered into a new credit agreement
(the "Fanch Credit Facilities"). The Fanch Credit Facilities provide for two
term facilities, one with a principal amount of $450.0 million that matures May
2008 (Term A), and the other with the principal amount of $400.0 million that
matures November 2008 (Term B). The Fanch Credit Facilities also provide for a
$350.0 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of May 2008 and at
the options of the lenders, supplemental credit facilities, in the amount of
$300.0 million available until December 31, 2004. Amounts under the Fanch Credit
Facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar rate, as defined,
plus a margin of up to 2.75% (8.12% to 8.87% as of December 31, 1999). A
quarterly commitment fee of between 0.250% and 0.375% per annum is payable on
the unborrowed balance. The Company used $850.0 million of the credit facilities
to fund a portion of the Fanch purchase price. As of December 31, 1999, unused
availability was $ 350.0 million.

Falcon Credit Facilities

     In connection with the Falcon acquisition, the existing Falcon credit
agreement (the "Falcon Credit Facilities") was amended to provide for two term
facilities, one with a principal amount of $200.0 million that matures June 2007
(Term B), and the other with the principal amount of $300.0 million that matures
December 2007 (Term C). The Falcon Credit Facilities also provide for a $646.0
million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of December 2006 and at
the options of the lenders, supplemental credit facilities in the amounts of
$700.0 million with a maturity date of December 2007. At December 31, 1999,
$110.0 million was outstanding under the supplemental credit facilities. Amounts
under the Falcon Credit Facilities bear interest at the Base Rate or the
Eurodollar rate, as defined, plus a margin of up to 2.5% (7.57% to 8.73% as of
December 31, 1999). A quarterly commitment fee of between 0.25% and 0.375% per
annum is payable on the unborrowed balance. As of December 31, 1999, unused
availability was $ 390.5 million. However, debt covenants limit the amount that
can be borrowed to $342.0 million at December 31, 1999.
                                      F-21


     The indentures governing the debt agreements require issuers of the debt
and/or its subsidiaries to comply with various financial and other covenants,
including the maintenance of certain operating and financial ratios. These debt
instruments also contain substantial limitations on, or prohibitions of
distributions, additional indebtedness, liens, asset sales and certain other
items. As a result of limitations and prohibitions of distributions,
substantially all of the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are
restricted for distribution to Charter Holdings, Charter Holdco and Charter.

     Based upon outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 1999, the amortization
of term loans, scheduled reductions in available borrowings of the revolving
credit facilities, and the maturity dates for all senior and subordinated notes
and debentures, aggregate future principal payments on the total borrowings
under all debt agreements at December 31, 1999, are as follows:



8. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

     A summary of debt and the related interest rate hedge agreements at
December 31, 1999, is as follows:



                                      F-22


     A summary of debt and the related interest rate hedge agreements at
December 31, 1998, is as follows:



     As the long-term debt under the credit agreements bears interest at current
market rates, their carrying amount approximates market value at December 31,
1999 and 1998. The fair values of the notes and the debentures are based on
quoted market prices.

     The weighted average interest pay rate for the Company's interest rate swap
agreements was 8.06% and 7.66% at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
weighted average interest rate for the Company's interest rate cap agreements
was 9.0% and 8.55% at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The weighted
average interest rate for the Company's interest rate collar agreements were
9.13% and 7.74% for the cap and floor components, respectively, at December 31,
1999, and 8.61% and 7.31%, respectively, at December 31, 1998.

     The notional amounts of interest rate hedge agreements do not represent
amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the Company's
exposure through its use of interest rate hedge agreements. The amounts
exchanged are determined by reference to the notional amount and the other terms
of the contracts.

     The fair value of interest rate hedge agreements generally reflects the
estimated amounts that the Company would (receive) or pay (excluding accrued
interest) to terminate the contracts on the reporting date, thereby taking into
account the current unrealized gains or losses of open contracts. Dealer
quotations are available for the Company's interest rate hedge agreements.

     Management believes that the sellers of the interest rate hedge agreements
will be able to meet their obligations under the agreements. In addition, some
of the interest rate hedge agreements are with certain of the participating
banks under the Company's credit facilities, thereby reducing the exposure to
credit loss. The Company has policies regarding the financial stability and
credit standing of major counterparties. Nonperformance by the counterparties is
not anticipated nor would it have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

9. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:

     At December 31, 1999, 1.5 billion shares of $.001 par value Class A common
stock, 750 million shares of $.001 par value Class B common stock, and 250
million shares of $.001 par value preferred stock are authorized. At December
31, 1999, 221.7 million, 50,000 and no shares of Class A common stock, Class B
common stock and preferred stock, respectively, were issued and outstanding. The
221.7 million shares of Class A common stock includes 26.8 million shares
classified as redeemable securities (see Note 16). At December 31, 1998, there
were 750 million share authorized and 50,000 shares of Class B common stock
issued and outstanding.

10. INCOME TAXES:

     Certain indirect subsidiaries of Charter Holdings are Corporations and file
separate federal and state income tax returns. Results of operations from these
subsidiaries are not material to the consolidated results of

                                      F-23


operations of the Company. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31,
1999, represents taxes assessed by certain state jurisdictions. Deferred income
tax assets and liabilities are not material.

     Charter files separate federal and state income tax returns and is
responsible for its share of taxable income (loss) of Charter Holdco as
determined by partnership tax rules and regulations and Charter Holdco's limited
liability company agreement (see Note 2). Management does not expect Charter to
pay any income taxes in the foreseeable future. Any net deferred income tax
assets will be offset entirely by a valuation allowance because of current and
expected future losses.

11. REVENUES:

     Revenues consist of the following:



12. OPERATING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES:

     Operating, general and administrative expenses consist of the following:



13. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

     Charter Investment provides management services to the Company including
centralized customer billing services, data processing and related support,
benefits administration and coordination of insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for medical, dental and workers' compensation claims.
Certain costs for services are billed and charged directly to the Company's
operating subsidiaries and are included in operating costs. These billings are
allocated based on the number of basic customers. Such costs totaled $16.5
million and $128 for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from
December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, respectively. All other costs
incurred by Charter Investment on behalf of the Company are recorded as expenses
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and are included in
corporate expense charges-related party. Management believes that costs incurred
by Charter Investment on the

                                      F-24


Company's behalf and included in the accompanying financial statements are not
materially different than costs the Company would have incurred as a stand-alone
entity.

     Charter Investment utilizes a combination of excess insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for its medical, dental and workers' compensation
claims. Charges are made to the Company as determined by independent actuaries
at the present value of the actuarially computed present and future liabilities
for such benefits. Medical coverage provides for $1.0 million aggregate stop
loss protection and a loss limitation of $100 per person per year. Workers'
compensation coverage provides for $1.0 million aggregate stop loss protection
and a loss limitation of $250 per person per year.

     The Company is charged a management fee as stipulated in the management
agreement between Charter Investment and Charter. To the extent management fees
charged to the Company are greater (less) than the corporate expenses incurred
by Charter Investment, the Company records distributions to (capital
contributions from) Charter Investment. For the year ended December 31, 1999,
the Company recorded distributions of $10.9 million, a portion of which have
been allocated to minority interest. For the period from December 24, 1998,
through December 31, 1998, the management fee charged to the Company
approximated the corporate expenses incurred by Charter Investment on behalf of
the Company. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, management fees currently payable
of $9.2 million and $473, respectively, are included in payables to related
party. For the period from December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, the
management fee charged to the Company approximated the corporate expenses
incurred by Charter Investment and Charter on behalf of the Company. The credit
facilities and indebtedness prohibit payments of management fees in excess of
3.5% of revenues until repayment of such indebtedness. Any amount in excess of
3.5% of revenues owed to Charter Investment based on the management agreement is
recorded as deferred management fees-related party.

     Charter, Mr. Allen and certain affiliates of Mr. Allen own equity interests
or warrants to purchase equity interests in various entities that provide
services or programming to the Company, including High Speed Access Corp. (High
Speed Access), WorldGate, Wink Communications, Inc. (Wink), ZDTV, LLC (ZDTV),
USA Networks, Inc. (USA Networks) and Oxygen Media Inc. (Oxygen Media). In
addition, certain officers or directors of the Company also serve as directors
of High Speed Access and USA Networks. The Company and its affiliates do not
hold controlling interests in any of these companies.

     Certain of the Company's cable customers receive cable modem-based Internet
access through High Speed Access and TV-based Internet access through WorldGate.
For the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998,
through December 31, 1998, revenues attributable to these services were less
than 1% of total revenues.

     The Company receives programming and certain interactive features embedded
into programming for broadcast via its cable systems from Wink, ZDTV, USA
Networks and Oxygen Media. The Company pays a fee for the programming service
generally based on the number of customers receiving the service. Such fees for
the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998,
through December 31, 1998, were approximately 1% of total operating costs. In
addition, the Company receives commissions from USA Networks for home shopping
sales generated by its customers. Such revenues for the year ended December 31,
1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, were
less than 1% of total revenues.

14. MINORITY INTEREST AND EQUITY INTERESTS OF CHARTER HOLDCO:

     Minority interest represents total members' equity of Charter Holdco
multiplied by 59.4% as of December 31, 1999, and 99.96% as of December 31, 1998,
the ownership percentages of Charter Holdco not owned by Charter. Members'
equity of Charter Holdco was $9.1 billion as of December 31, 1999, and $2.2
billion as of December 31, 1998. Gains (losses) arising from issuances by
Charter Holdco of its membership units are recorded as capital transactions
thereby increasing (decreasing) stockholders' equity and (decreasing) increasing
minority interest on the consolidated balance sheets.

                                      F-25


     Changes to minority interest consist of the following:



     The preferred equity interests in Charter Holdco held by the Rifkin sellers
were exchangeable into Class A common stock of Charter at the option of the
Rifkin sellers only at the time of the initial public offering. In November
1999, preferred equity interests of $130.3 million were exchanged into common
stock of Charter. The membership units of Charter Holdco held by the Falcon
sellers were exchangeable into Class A common stock of Charter. The units are
also puttable to Mr. Allen for cash. In November 1999, membership units of $43.4
million were put to Mr. Allen and $506.6 million were exchanged into the Class A
common stock of Charter. For a two-year period, equity held by the Rifkin and
Falcon sellers may be put to Mr. Allen for cash.

     Pursuant to a membership interests purchase agreement, as amended, Vulcan
Cable contributed $500.0 million in cash on August 10, 1999, to Charter Holdco,
contributed an additional $180.7 million in certain equity interests acquired in
connection with the acquisition of Rifkin in September 1999, to Charter Holdco,
and contributed $644.3 million in September 1999 to Charter Holdco. All funds
and equity interests were contributed to Charter Holdings. Concurrently with
closing of the initial public offering, Vulcan Cable contributed $750 million in
cash to Charter Holdco.

15. OPTION PLAN:

     In accordance with an employment agreement between Charter Investment and
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter and a related option
agreement with the President and Chief Executive Officer, an option to purchase
7,044,127 Charter Holdco membership interests, was issued to the President and
Chief Executive Officer. The option vests over a four-year period from the date
of grant and expires ten years from the date of grant.

     In February 1999, Charter Holdings adopted an option plan providing for the
grant of options. The plan was assumed by Charter Holdco. The option plan
provides for grants of options to employees, officers and directors of Charter
Holdco and its affiliates and consultants who provide services to Charter
Holdco. Options granted vest over five years from the grant date, commencing 15
months after the date of grant. Options not exercised accumulate and are
exercisable, in whole or in part, in any subsequent period, but not later than
ten years from the date of grant.

                                      F-26


     Membership units received upon exercise of the options are automatically
exchanged for shares of Class A common stock of Charter on a one-for-one basis.

     A summary of the activity for the Company's option plan for the year ended
December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 23, 1998, through December
31, 1998, is as follows:



     In February 2000, the Company granted 5.7 million options at $19.47 per
share.

     The Company uses the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, to
account for the option plans. Option compensation expense of $80.0 million and
$845 for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24,
1998, to December 31, 1998, respectively, has been recorded in the consolidated
financial statements since the exercise prices were less than the estimated fair
values of the underlying membership interests on the date of grant. Estimated
fair values were determined by the Company using the valuation inherent in the
Paul Allen Transaction and valuations of public companies in the cable
television industry adjusted for factors specific to the Company. Compensation
expense is being recorded over the vesting period of each grant that varies from
four to five years. As of December 31, 1999, deferred compensation remaining to
be recognized in future periods totaled $79.4 million. No stock option
compensation expense was recorded for the options granted on November 8, 1999,
since the exercise price is equal to the estimated fair value of the underlying
membership interests on the date of grant. Since the membership units are
exchangeable into Class A common stock of Charter on a one-for-one basis, the
estimated fair value was equal to the initial offering price of Class A common
stock.

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS 123), requires pro forma disclosure of the impact
on earnings as if the compensation costs for these

                                      F-27


plans had been determined consistent with the fair value methodology of this
statement. The Company's net loss would have been increased to the following
unaudited pro forma amounts under SFAS 123:



     The fair value of each option granted is estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted average
assumptions were used for grants during the year ended December 31, 1999, and
for the period from December 24, 1998, through December 31, 1998, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 5.5% and 4.8%; expected volatility of 43.8% and
43.7%; and expected lives of 10 years. The valuations assume no dividends are
paid.

16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

     The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating leases. Leases and rental costs charged to expense for the year ended
December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998, through December
31, 1998, were $11.2 million and $70, respectively. As of December 31, 1999,
future minimum lease payments are as follows:



     The Company also rents utility poles in its operations. Generally, pole
rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the Company anticipates that such
rentals will recur. Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the
year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24, 1998, through
December 31, 1998, was $14.3 million and $137, respectively.

Litigation

     The Company is a party to lawsuits and claims that arose in the ordinary
course of conducting its business. In the opinion of management, after
consulting with legal counsel, the outcome of these lawsuits and claims will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position
or results of operations.

Redeemable Securities

     As previously disclosed in Charter's Registration Statement on Form S-1, as
amended, the Rifkin and Falcon sellers who own membership units of Charter
Holdco, including those sellers that exchanged their units for common stock of
Charter, and certain Helicon sellers who purchased Class A common stock in
November 1999, may have rescission rights arising out of possible violations of
Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the
offers and sales of these equity interests. Accordingly, the maximum potential
cash obligation related to the rescission rights, estimated at $750.9 million,
has been

                                      F-28


excluded from stockholders' equity or minority interest and classified as
"redeemable securities" on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1999.
One year after the dates of issuance of these equity interests (when these
rescission rights will have expired), the Company will reclassify the respective
amounts to stockholders' equity or minority interest, as applicable.

Regulation in the Cable Television Industry

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable television systems. The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) has principal responsibility for implementing the policies of
the Cable Acts. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of
judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation
and regulations continue to change, and the Company cannot predict the impact of
future developments on the cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable television
systems and have resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and
local or state franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC
regulations have established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. During 1999, the
amounts refunded by the Company have been insignificant. The Company may be
required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Company believes that it has complied in all material respects with the
provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Company is unable to justify its basic rates. As of
December 31, 1999, approximately 18% of the Company's local franchising
authorities are certified to regulate basic tier rates. The Company is unable to
estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if any, that may be payable by the
Company in the event certain of its rates are successfully challenged by
franchising authorities or found to be unreasonable by the FCC. The Company does
not believe that the amount of any such refunds would have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the
Company.

     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulated rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC has taken the position that it will
still adjudicate pending CPST complaints but will strictly limit its review, and
possible refund orders, to the time period predating the sunset date, March 31,
1999. The Company does not believe any adjudications regarding their pre-sunset
complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

     A number of states subject cable television systems to the jurisdiction of
centralized state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a
character similar to that of a public utility. State governmental agencies are
required to follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and thus, state
regulation of cable television rates is not allowed to be more restrictive than
the federal or local regulation.

17. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

     The Company's employees may participate in 401(k) plans (the "401(k)
Plans"). Employees that qualify for participation can contribute up to 15% of
their salary, on a before tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution limit as
determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company matches 50% of the first
5% of participant contributions. The Company made contributions to the 401(k)
Plans totaling $2.9 million and

                                      F-29


$20 for the year ended December 31, 1999, and for the period from December 24,
1998, through December 31, 1998, respectively.

18. ACCOUNTING STANDARD NOT YET IMPLEMENTED:

     The Company is required to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards Board No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities (SFAS No. 133) on January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133 establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument
(including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its
fair value and that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Special
accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to
offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement, and requires
that a company must formally document, designate and assess the effectiveness of
transactions that receive hedge accounting. The Company has not yet quantified
the impact of adopting SFAS No. 133 on the consolidated financial statements nor
has the Company determined the timing of the adoption of SFAS No. 133. However,
SFAS No. 133 could increase the volatility in earnings (losses).

19. PARENT COMPANY ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

     As the result of limitations on and prohibition of distributions,
substantially all of the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are
restricted for distribution to Charter, the parent company. The following
parent-only financial statements of Charter account for the investment in
Charter Holdco under the equity method of accounting. The financial statements
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the
Company and notes thereto.

               CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-30


               CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



               CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-31


20. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

     Year ended December 31, 1999:



21. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS:

     On January 6, 2000, Charter Holdings issued the January 2000 Charter
Holdings Notes with a principal amount of $1.5 billion. The January 2000 Charter
Holdings Notes are comprised of $675.0 million 10.00% Senior Notes due 2009,
$325.0 million 10.25% Senior Notes due 2010, and $532.0 million 11.75% Senior
Discount Notes due 2010. The net proceeds were approximately $1.3 billion, after
giving effect to discounts, commissions and expenses. The proceeds from the
January 2000 Charter Holdings Notes were used to finance the repurchases of debt
assumed in certain transactions.

     On February 14, 2000, Charter Holdco and Charter Holdings completed the
acquisition of Bresnan Communications Company Limited Partnership (Bresnan).
Prior to the acquisition, Charter Holdco assigned a portion of its rights to
purchase Bresnan to Charter Holdings. Charter Holdco and Charter Holdings
purchased 52% of Bresnan from certain sellers for cash and certain sellers
contributed 18% of Bresnan to Charter Holdco for 14.8 million Class C common
membership units of Charter Holdco, an approximate 2.6% equity interest in
Charter Holdco. Charter Holdco then transferred its ownership interest to
Charter Holdings. Thereafter, Charter Holdings and certain sellers contributed
all of the outstanding interests in Bresnan to CC VIII, LLC (CC VIII), a
subsidiary of Charter Holdings and Bresnan was dissolved. In exchange for the
contribution of their interests in Bresnan, the sellers received approximately
24.2 million Class A preferred membership units in CC VIII representing 30% of
the equity of CC VIII and are entitled to a 2% annual return on their preferred
membership units. The purchase price for Bresnan was approximately $3.1 billion
subject to adjustment and was comprised of $1.1 billion in cash, $384.6 million
and $629.5 million in equity in Charter Holdco and CC VIII, respectively, and
approximately $1.0 billion in assumed debt. All the membership units received by
the sellers are exchangeable on a one-for-one basis for Class A common stock of
Charter. The Bresnan cable systems acquired are located in Michigan, Minnesota,
Wisconsin and Nebraska, and serve approximately 686,000 (unaudited) customers.

     In March 2000, Charter repurchased all of the outstanding Bresnan 9.25%
Senior Discount Notes Due 2009 with an accreted value of $192.1 million and the
Bresnan 8.00% Senior Notes Due 2009 with a principal amount of $170.0 million
for a total of $369.7 million. The notes were repurchased using a portion of the
proceeds of the January 2000 Charter Holdings Notes.

                                      F-32


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Charter Communications Properties Holdings, LLC:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations,
changes in shareholder's investment and cash flows of Charter Communications
Properties Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries for the period from January 1, 1998,
through December 23, 1998, and for the year ended December 31, 1997. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the results of the operations and the cash flows of
Charter Communications Properties Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries for the period
from January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and for the year ended December
31, 1997, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
February 5, 1999

                                      F-33


        CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS PROPERTIES HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                      F-34


        CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS PROPERTIES HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDER'S INVESTMENT
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-35


        CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS PROPERTIES HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                      F-36


        CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS PROPERTIES HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION:

     Charter Communications Properties Holdings, LLC (CCPH), a Delaware limited
liability company, formerly Charter Communications Properties Holdings, Inc.,
through its wholly owned cable television operating subsidiary, Charter
Communications Properties, LLC (CCP), commenced operations with the acquisition
of a cable television system on September 30, 1995. Prior to February 19, 1999,
CCPH was wholly owned by Charter Investment, Inc. (Charter Investment).

     Effective December 23, 1998, as part of a series of transactions, through
which Paul G. Allen acquired Charter Investment, Mr. Allen acquired CCPH for an
aggregate purchase price of $211 million, excluding $214 million in debt assumed
(the "Paul Allen Transaction"). In conjunction with the Paul Allen Transaction,
CCPH was converted from a corporation to a limited liability company. Also, in
conjunction with the Paul Allen Transaction, Charter Investment for fair value
acquired from unrelated third parties all of the interest it did not already own
in CharterComm Holdings, LLC (CharterComm Holdings) and CCA Group (comprised of
CCA Holdings, Corp., CCT Holdings Corp. and Charter Communications Long Beach,
Inc.), all cable television operating companies, for $2.0 billion, excluding
$1.8 billion in debt assumed. Charter Investment previously managed and owned
minority interests in these companies. In February 1999, Charter Investment
transferred all of its cable television operating subsidiaries to a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (Charter Holdings), Charter
Communications Operating, LLC (Charter Operating). Charter Holdings was a wholly
owned subsidiary of Charter Investment. The transfer was accounted for as a
reorganization of entities under common control similar to a pooling of
interests.

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
CCPH and CCP, its wholly owned cable operating subsidiary (collectively, the
"Company"). The accounts of CharterComm Holdings and CCA Group are not included
since these companies were not owned and controlled by Charter Investment prior
to December 23, 1998.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. These investments are
carried at cost that approximates market value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, including all direct and
certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable transmission
and distribution facilities, and the cost of new customer installations. The
costs of disconnecting a customer are charged to expense in the period incurred.
Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred,
while equipment replacement and betterments are capitalized.

     Depreciation is provided on the straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets as follows:



     For the period from January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and for the
year ended December 31, 1997, depreciation expense was $6.2 million and $3.9
million, respectively.

                                      F-37


Franchises

     Costs incurred in obtaining and renewing cable franchises are deferred and
amortized over the lives of the franchises. Costs relating to unsuccessful
franchise applications are charged to expense when it is determined that the
efforts to obtain the franchise will not be successful. Franchise rights
acquired through the purchase of cable systems represent management's estimate
of fair value and are generally amortized using the straight-line method over a
period of 15 years. The period of 15 years is management's best estimate of the
useful lives of the franchises and assumes substantially all of those franchises
that expire during the period will be renewed by the Company.

Other Assets

     Debt issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense using the
effective interest method over the term of the related debt. The interest rate
cap costs are being amortized over the terms of the agreement, which
approximates three years.

Impairment of Assets

     If facts and circumstances suggest that a long-lived asset may be impaired,
the carrying value is reviewed. If a review indicates that the carrying value of
such asset is not recoverable based on projected undiscounted net cash flows
related to the asset over its remaining life, the carrying value of such asset
is reduced to its estimated fair value.

Revenues

     Cable television revenues from basic and premium services are recognized
when the related services are provided.

     Installation revenues are recognized to the extent of direct selling costs
incurred. The remainder, if any, is deferred and amortized to income over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable system. As of December 23, 1998, and December 31, 1997, no installation
revenue has been deferred, as direct selling costs have exceeded installation
revenue.

     Fees collected from programmers to guarantee carriage are deferred and
amortized to income over the life of the contracts. Local governmental
authorities impose franchise fees on the Company ranging up to a federally
mandated maximum of 5.0% of gross revenues. Such fees are collected on a monthly
basis from the Company's customers and are periodically remitted to local
franchise authorities. Franchise fees collected and paid are reported as
revenues and expenses.

Interest Rate Hedge Agreements

     The Company manages fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate
hedge agreements, as required by certain debt agreements. Interest rate swaps,
caps and collars are accounted for as hedges of debt obligations, and
accordingly, the net settlement amounts are recorded as adjustments to interest
expense in the period incurred. Premiums paid for interest rate caps are
deferred, included in other assets, and are amortized over the original term of
the interest rate agreement as an adjustment to interest expense.

     The Company's interest rate swap agreements require the Company to pay a
fixed rate and receive a floating rate thereby creating fixed rate debt.
Interest rate caps and collars are entered into by the Company to reduce the
impact of rising interest rates on floating rate debt.

     The Company's participation in interest rate hedging transactions involves
instruments that have a close correlation with its debt, thereby managing its
risk. Interest rate hedge agreements have been designated for hedging purposes
and are not held or issued for speculative purposes.

                                      F-38


Income Taxes

     The Company filed a consolidated income tax return with Charter Investment.
Income taxes were allocated to the Company in accordance with the tax-sharing
agreement between the Company and Charter Investment.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

3. ACQUISITION:

     In 1998, the Company acquired a cable system for an aggregate purchase
price, net of cash acquired, of $228.4 million, comprised of $167.5 million in
cash and $60.9 million in a note payable to the seller. The excess of the cost
of properties acquired over the amounts assigned to net tangible assets at the
date of acquisition was $207.6 million and is included in franchises.

     The above acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting, and accordingly, results of operations of the acquired assets have
been included in the financial statements from the dates of acquisition. The
purchase price was allocated to tangible and intangible assets based on
estimated fair values at the acquisition date.

     Unaudited pro forma operating results as though the acquisition discussed
above, excluding the Paul Allen Transaction, had occurred on January 1, 1997,
with adjustments to give effect to amortization of franchises, interest expense
and certain other adjustments are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma information has been presented for comparative
purposes and does not purport to be indicative of the results of operations had
the transaction been completed as of the assumed date or which may be obtained
in the future.

4. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS:

     Activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is summarized as follows:



                                      F-39


5. SALE OF FT. HOOD SYSTEM:

     In February 1997, the Company sold the net assets of the Ft. Hood system,
which served customers in Texas, for an aggregate sales price of approximately
$12.5 million. The sale of the Ft. Hood system resulted in a loss of
approximately $1.4 million, which is included in operating, general and
administrative costs in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations
for the year ended December 31, 1997.

6. INCOME TAXES:

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future
tax consequence attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
basis. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted
tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred income tax expense or benefit is
the result of changes in the liability or asset recorded for deferred taxes. A
valuation allowance must be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset
for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.

     No current provision (benefit) for income taxes was recorded. The effective
income tax rate is less than the federal rate of 35% primarily due to providing
a valuation allowance on deferred income tax assets.

7. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

     Charter Investment provides management services to the Company including
centralized customer billing services, data processing and related support,
benefits administration and coordination of insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for medical, dental and workers' compensation claims.
Certain costs for services are billed and charged directly to the Company's
operating subsidiaries and are included in operating costs. These billings are
determined based on the number of basic customers. Such costs totaled $437 and
$220, respectively, for the period from January 1, 1998, through December 23,
1998, and the year ended December 31, 1997. All other costs incurred by Charter
Investment on behalf of the Company are expensed in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements and are included in corporate expense
allocations related party. The cost of these services is allocated based on the
number of basic customers. Management considers these allocations to be
reasonable for the operations of the Company.

     Charter Investment utilized a combination of excess insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for its medical, dental and workers' compensation
claims. Charges are made to the Company as determined by independent actuaries,
at the present value of the actuarially computed present and future liabilities
for such benefits. Medical coverage provides for $2.4 million aggregate stop
loss protection and a loss limitation of $100 per person per year. Workers'
compensation coverage provides for $800 aggregate stop loss protection and a
loss limitation of $150 per person per year.

     The Company is charged a management fee based on percentages of revenues as
stipulated in the management agreement between Charter Investment and the
Company. For the period from January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and the
year ended December 31, 1997, the management fee charged to the Company
approximated the corporate expenses incurred by Charter Investment on behalf of
the Company.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

     The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating leases. Leases and rental costs charged to expense for the period from
January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and for the year ended December 31,
1997, were $278 and $130, respectively.

     The Company also rents utility poles in its operations. Generally, pole
rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the Company anticipates that such
rentals will recur. Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the
period from January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and for the year ended
December 31, 1997, was $421 and $271, respectively.

                                      F-40


Litigation

     The Company is a party to lawsuits that arose in the ordinary course of
conducting its business. In the opinion of management, after consulting with
legal counsel, the outcome of these lawsuits will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

Regulation in the Cable Television Industry

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable systems. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has
principal responsibility for implementing the policies of the Cable Acts. Many
aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and
administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation and regulations continue to
change, and the Company cannot predict the impact of future developments on the
cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable systems and have
resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and local or state
franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC regulations have
established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. As of December 31,
1998, the amount refunded by the Company has been insignificant. The Company may
be required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Company believes that it has complied in all material respects with the
provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Company is unable to justify its basic rates. The Company
is unable to estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if any, that may be
payable by the Company in the event certain of its rates are successfully
challenged by franchising authorities or found to be unreasonable by the FCC.
The Company does not believe that the amount of any such refunds would have a
material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of
the Company.

     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulates rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC has taken the position that it will
still adjudicate pending CPST complaints but will strictly limit its review, and
possible refund orders, to the time period predating the sunset date, March 31,
1999. The Company does not believe any adjudications regarding their pre-sunset
complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

     A number of states subject cable systems to the jurisdiction of centralized
state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a character
similar to that of a public utility. State governmental agencies are required to
follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and thus, state regulation of
cable television rates is not allowed to be more restrictive than the federal or
local regulation. The Company is subject to state regulation in Connecticut.

9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

401(k) Plan

     The Company's employees may participate in the Charter Communications, Inc.
401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Employees that qualify for participation can
contribute up to 15% of their salary, on or before

                                      F-41


tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution limit as determined by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Company contributes an amount equal to 50% of the first 5%
of contributions by each employee. The Company contributed $74 and $29 for the
period from January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, and for the year ended
December 31, 1997, respectively.

Appreciation Rights Plan

     Certain employees of Charter participated in the 1995 Charter
Communications, Inc. Appreciation Rights Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan permitted
Charter Investment to grant 1,500,000 units to certain key employees, of which
1,251,500 were outstanding at December 31, 1997. Units received by an employee
vest at a rate of 20% per year, unless otherwise provided in the participant's
Appreciation Rights Unit Agreement. The appreciation rights entitled the
participants to receive payment, upon termination or change in control of
Charter Investment, of the excess of the unit value over the base value (defined
as the appreciation value) for each vested unit. The unit value was based on
adjusted equity, as defined in the Plan. Deferred compensation expense was based
on the appreciation value since the grant date and was being amortized over the
vesting period.

     As a result of the acquisition of Charter Investment by Mr. Allen, the Plan
was terminated, all outstanding units became 100% vested and all amounts were
paid by Charter Investment in 1999. The cost of this plan was allocated to the
Company based on the number of basic customers. The Company considers this
allocation to be reasonable for the operations of the Company. For the period
January 1, 1998, through December 23, 1998, the Company expensed $3,800,
included in corporate expense allocation-related party and increased
shareholder's investment for the cost of this plan.

10. ACCOUNTING STANDARD NOT YET IMPLEMENTED:

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted SFAS No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 133
establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability
measured at its fair value and that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are
met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and
losses to offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement, and
requires that a company must formally document, designate and assess the
effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting. SFAS No. 137,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133 -- An Amendment of FASB Statement No.
133, has delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 133 to fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2000. The Company has not yet quantified the impact of adopting
SFAS No. 133 on the consolidated financial statements nor has determined the
timing of its adoption of SFAS No. 133. However, SFAS No. 133 could increase
volatility in earnings (loss).

                                      F-42


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Marcus Cable Holdings, LLC:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations,
members' deficit and cash flows of Marcus Cable Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries
for the three months ended March 31, 1999. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations of Marcus
Cable Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries and their cash flows for the three months
ended March 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
March 6, 2000

                                      F-43


                  MARCUS CABLE HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-44


                  MARCUS CABLE HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF MEMBERS' DEFICIT
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-45


                  MARCUS CABLE HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-46


                  MARCUS CABLE HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1.  ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Marcus Cable Holdings, LLC (Marcus Holdings), a Delaware limited liability
company, was formed in February 1999 as parent of Marcus Cable Company, L.L.C.
(MCCLLC), formerly Marcus Cable Company, L.P. (MCCLP). MCCLP was formed as a
Delaware limited partnership and was converted to a Delaware limited liability
company on June 9, 1998. Marcus Holdings and its subsidiaries (collectively, the
"Company") derive their primary source of revenues by providing various levels
of cable television programming and services to residential and business
customers. The Company's operations are conducted through Charter Cable
Operating Company, LLC, formerly Marcus Cable Operating Company, L.L.C., a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company operates cable television
systems primarily in Texas, Wisconsin, Indiana, California and Alabama.

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
MCCLLC and its subsidiary limited liability companies and corporations,
representing the financial statements of the Company for the period presented.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

     On April 23, 1998, Vulcan Cable, Inc. and Paul G. Allen (collectively
referred to as "Vulcan") acquired all of the outstanding limited partnership
interest and substantially all of the general partner interest in MCCLP for cash
payments of $1,392,000 (the "Vulcan Acquisition"). Under the terms of the
purchase agreement, the owner of the remaining 0.6% general partner interest in
the Company (the "Minority Interest"), which represents 100% of the voting
control of the Company, could cause Vulcan to purchase the 0.6% general partner
interest under certain conditions, or Vulcan could cause the Minority Interest
to sell its interest to Vulcan under certain conditions at a fair value of not
less than $8,000. On March 31, 1999, Vulcan acquired voting control of the
Company by its acquisition of the Minority Interest for cash consideration.

     Effective December 23, 1998, through a series of transactions, Mr. Allen
acquired approximately 94% of Charter Communications, Inc. (Charter) (renamed
Charter Investment, Inc.). Beginning in October 1998, Charter began to manage
the operations of the Company.

     In March 1999, Charter transferred all of its cable television operating
subsidiaries to a subsidiary, Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (Charter
Holdings) in connection with the issuance of Senior Notes and Senior Discount
Notes totaling $3.6 billion. These operating subsidiaries were then transferred
to Charter Communications Operating, LLC (Charter Operating). On April 7, 1999,
the cable television operating subsidiaries of the Company were transferred to
Charter Operating subsequent to the purchase by Mr. Allen of the Minority
Interest.

     As a result of the Vulcan Acquisition, the Company recognized severance and
stay-on bonus compensation of $16,034 for the year ended December 31, 1998. As
of December 31, 1998, 35 employees and officers of the Company had been
terminated and $13,634 had been paid under severance and bonus arrangements. By
March 31, 1999, 50 additional employees were terminated and the remaining
balance of $2,400 was paid in April 1999.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

                                      F-47


     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, including all direct and
certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television
transmission and distribution facilities, and the cost of new customer
installation. The costs of disconnecting a customer are charged to expense in
the period incurred. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to
expense as incurred and equipment replacements and betterments are capitalized.

     Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets as follows:



     Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 1999 was $33,696.

     FRANCHISES

     Costs incurred in obtaining and renewing cable television franchises are
deferred and amortized over the estimated lives of the franchises. Costs
relating to unsuccessful franchise applications are charged to expense when it
is determined that the efforts to obtain the franchise will not be successful.
Franchise rights acquired through the purchase of cable television systems
represent management's estimate of fair value and are amortized using the
straight-line method over a period of 15 years. The period of 15 years is
management's best estimate of the useful lives of the franchises and assumes
substantially all of those franchises that expire during the period will be
renewed by the Company. Amortization expense for the three months ended March
31, 1999 was $17,992.

     OTHER ASSETS

     Debt issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the
related debt.

     IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS

     If facts and circumstances suggest that a long-lived asset may be impaired,
the carrying value is reviewed. If a review indicates that the carrying value of
such asset is not recoverable based on projected undiscounted cash flows related
to the asset over its remaining life, the carrying value of such asset is
reduced to its estimated fair value.

     REVENUES

     Cable television revenues from basic and premium services are recognized
when the related services are provided.

     Installation revenues are recognized to the extent of direct selling costs
incurred. The remainder, if any, is deferred and amortized to income over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable television system. As of March 31, 1999, no installation revenue has been
deferred as direct selling costs exceeded installation revenue.

     INCOME TAXES

     Income taxes are the responsibility of the individual members and are not
provided for in the accompanying financial statements. The Company's subsidiary
corporations are subject to federal income tax but have had no operations since
inception and therefore, no taxable income.

                                      F-48


     USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

3.  MEMBERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)

     Upon completion of the Vulcan Acquisition, Vulcan owned 99.4% of MCCLP
through direct ownership of all LP Units and through 80% ownership of Marcus
Cable Properties, Inc. ("MCPI"), the general partner of Marcus Cable Properties,
L.P. ("MCPLP"), the general partner of MCCLP. The Minority Interest owned the
voting common stock, or the remaining 20% of MCPI.

     On June 9, 1998, MCCLP was converted into a Delaware limited liability
company with two members: Vulcan Cable, Inc., with 96.2% ownership, and Marcus
Cable Properties, L.L.C. ("MCPLLC") (formerly MCPLP), with 3.8% ownership.
Vulcan Cable, Inc. owns approximately 25.6% and MCPI owns approximately 74.4% of
MCPLLC, with Vulcan's interest in MCPI unchanged. As there was no change in
ownership interests, the historical partners' capital balances at June 9, 1998
were transferred to and became the initial equity of MCCLLC, and thus the
accompanying statement of members' equity has been presented as if the
conversion of MCCLP into MCCLLC occurred on April 23, 1998, the date of the
Vulcan Acquisition (see Note 1).

     As of March 31, 1999, MCCLLC has 100 issued and outstanding membership
units. Income and losses of MCCLLC are allocated to the members in accordance
with their ownership interests. Members are not personally liable for
obligations of MCCLLC.

4.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company and Charter entered into a management agreement on October 6,
1998 whereby Charter began to manage the day-to-day operations of the Company.
In consideration for the management consulting services provided by Charter,
Marcus paid Charter an annual fee equal to 3% of the gross revenues of the cable
system operations plus reimbursement for out of pocket costs and expenses
incurred by Charter in performing services under the management agreement. For
the three months ended March 31, 1999, management fees under this agreement were
$4,381. In connection with the transfer of the Company's operating subsidiaries
to Charter Operating, the annual fee paid by Marcus to Charter increased to
3.5%.

5.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

     The Company sponsored a 401(k) plan for its employees whereby employees
that qualified for participation under the plan could contribute up to 15% of
their salary, on a before tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution limit as
determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company matched participant
contributions up to a maximum of 2% of a participant's salary. As a result of
the Vulcan Acquisition, participants became fully vested in Company matching
contributions.

     In connection with Vulcan's acquisition of Charter, the Marcus Plan's
assets were frozen as of December 23, 1998 and employees became fully vested in
company matching contributions after the Vulcan Acquisition. Effective January
1, 1999, the Company's employees with two months of service are eligible to
participate in the Charter Communications, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "Charter
Plan"). Employees that qualify for participation in the Charter Plan can
contribute up to 15% of their salary, on a before tax basis, subject to a
maximum contribution limit as determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The
Company contributes an amount equal to 50% of the first 5% of contributions by
each employee. For the three months ended March 31, 1999, the Company made
contributions to the Charter Plan of $237.

                                      F-49


6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     LEASES

     The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating leases. Lease and rental costs charged to expense for the three months
ended March 31, 1999 were $584. The Company also rents utility poles in its
operations. Generally, pole rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the
Company anticipates that such rentals will recur. Rent expense for pole
attachments for the three months ended March 31, 1999 was $955.

     LITIGATION

     In Alabama, Indiana, Maryland, Texas and Wisconsin, customers have filed
putative class action lawsuits on behalf of all of the Company's customers
residing in those states who are or were customers, and who have been charged a
processing fee for delinquent payment of their cable bill. The plaintiffs
challenge the legality of the processing fee and seek declaratory judgment,
injunctive relief and unspecified damages. The Company is in the process of
finalizing a global settlement of these cases, which settlement must be approved
by a court. Unless a global settlement is consummated and approved, the Company
intends to vigorously defend the actions. At this stage, the Company is not able
to project the final costs of settlement, the expenses of defending the actions
or the potential outcome of the actions, including the impact on the
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     The Company is also party to lawsuits, which are generally incidental to
its business. In the opinion of management, after consulting with legal counsel,
the outcome of these lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

     REGULATION IN THE CABLE TELEVISION INDUSTRY

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable television systems. The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) has principal responsibility for implementing the policies of
the Cable Acts. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of
judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation
and regulations continue to change, and the Company cannot predict the impact of
future developments on the cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable television
systems and have resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and
local or state franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC
regulations have established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. As of December 31,
1998, the amount refunded by the Company has been insignificant. The Company may
be required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Company believes that it has complied in all material respects with the
provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Company is unable to justify its basic rates. The Company
is unable to estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if any, that may be
payable by the Company in the event certain of its rates are successfully
challenged by franchising authorities or found to be unreasonable by the FCC.
The Company does not believe that the amount of any such refunds would have a
material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of
the Company.

                                      F-50


     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulates rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC is currently developing permanent
regulations to implement the rate deregulation provisions of the 1996 Telecom
Act. The Company cannot predict the ultimate effect of the 1996 Telecom Act on
the Company's financial position or results of operations.

     The FCC may further restrict the ability of cable television operators to
implement rate increases or the United States Congress may enact legislation
that could delay or suspend the scheduled March 1999 termination of CPST rate
regulation. This continued rate regulation, if adopted, could limit the rates
charged by the Company.

     A number of states subject cable television systems to the jurisdiction of
centralized state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a
character similar to that of a public utility. State governmental agencies are
required to follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and thus, state
regulation of cable television rates is not allowed to be more restrictive than
the federal or local regulation.

7.  LONG-TERM DEBT

     In March 1999, concurrent with the issuance of Senior Notes and Senior
Discount Notes (see Note 1), Charter and the Company extinguished all long-term
debt, excluding borrowings of Charter and the Company under their respective
credit agreements, and refinanced all existing credit agreements at various
subsidiaries of Charter and the Company with a new credit agreement entered into
by Charter Operating. The excess of the amount paid over the carrying value of
the Company's long-term debt, net of unamortized debt issuance costs, was
recorded as Extraordinary item -- loss on early extinguishment of debt in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

8.  ACCOUNTING STANDARD NOT IMPLEMENTED

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Boards adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 133 establishes
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument
(including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be
recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its
fair value and that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Special
accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to
offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement, and requires
that a company must formally document, designate and assess the effectiveness of
transactions that receive hedge accounting. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No.
137, is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
has not yet quantified the impacts of adopting SFAS No. 133 on its consolidated
financial statements nor has it determined the timing or method of its adoption
of SFAS No. 133. However, SFAS No. 133 could increase volatility of earnings
(loss).

                                      F-51


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors of
  Renaissance Media Group LLC

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Renaissance
Media Group LLC (the "Company") as of April 30, 1999 and the related
consolidated statements of operations, changes in members' equity, and cash
flows for the four months ended April 30, 1999. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
the Company at April 30, 1999, and the consolidated results of its operations
and its cash flows for the four months then ended in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

New York, New York
June 4, 1999
except for Note 11, as to which the date is
June 29, 1999

                                      F-52


                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-53


                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-54


                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC
              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN MEMBERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-55


                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-56


                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

1.  ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Renaissance Media Group LLC ("Group") a wholly owned subsidiary of
Renaissance Media Holdings LLC ("Holdings"), was formed in March 1998 to own and
operate cable television systems in small and medium sized markets, which
provide programming, and other related services, to subscribers through its
hybrid coaxial and fiber optic distribution plant for a monthly fee. Group and
its wholly owned subsidiaries, Renaissance Media (Louisiana) LLC ("Louisiana"),
Renaissance Media (Tennessee) LLC ("Tennessee"), and Renaissance Media LLC
("Media") are collectively referred to as the "Company". On April 9, 1998, the
Company acquired six cable television systems (the "Acquisition") from TWI
Cable, Inc., a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"). Prior to the
Acquisition, the Company had no operations other than start-up related
activities.

     On February 23, 1999, Holdings, Charter Communications, Inc. ("Charter"),
now known as Charter Investment, Inc. and Charter Communications, LLC ("Buyer"
or "CC LLC") executed a purchase agreement (the "Charter Purchase Agreement"),
providing for Holdings to sell and Buyer to purchase, all of the outstanding
limited liability company membership interests in Group held by Holdings (the
"Charter Transaction") subject to certain covenants and restrictions pending
satisfaction of certain conditions prior to closing. The purchase price was
$459,000, consisting of $348,000 in cash and $111,000 in assumed debt. On April
30, 1999, the Charter Transaction was consummated.

     These financial statements have been prepared as of and for the four months
ended April 30, 1999 immediately prior to the consummation of the Charter
Transaction.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     During 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No.
133"). SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring
that every derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value and that changes in the derivative's
fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting
criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's
gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged item in the income
statement, and requires that a company must formally document, designate and
assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting. SFAS No.
137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Deferral
of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133 -- An Amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133" has delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 133 to fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2000. The adoption of SFAS No. 133 is not
expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     A significant portion of the customer base is concentrated within the local
geographical area of each of the individual cable television systems. The
Company generally extends credit to customers and the ultimate collection of
accounts receivable could be affected by the local economy. Management performs
continuous credit evaluations of its customers and may require cash in advance
or other special arrangements from certain
                                      F-57

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

customers. Management does not believe that there is any significant credit risk
which could have a material effect on the Company's financial condition.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash and cash equivalents include cash and investments in short-term,
highly liquid securities, which have maturities when purchased of three months
or less.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at purchased and capitalized
cost. Capitalized internal costs principally consist of employee costs and
interest on funds borrowed during construction. Capitalized labor, materials and
associated overhead amounted to approximately $721 for the four months ended
April 30, 1999. Replacements, renewals and improvements to installed cable plant
are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
Depreciation expense for the four months ended April 30, 1999 amounted to
$3,434.

     Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method
over the following estimated service lives:



     Property, plant and equipment at April 30, 1999 consisted of:



CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Cable television franchise costs include the assigned fair value, at the
date of acquisition, of the franchises from purchased cable television systems.
Intangible assets include goodwill, deferred financing and other intangible
assets. Cable television franchises and intangible assets are amortized using
the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:



                                      F-58

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

     Intangible assets at April 30, 1999 consisted of:



     The Company reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets, including
property, plant and equipment, cable television franchises and intangible
assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. To the extent the estimated future cash inflows
attributable to the asset, less estimated future cash outflows, is less than the
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the
carrying value of such asset is greater than its fair value.

REVENUES AND COSTS

     Subscriber fees are recorded as revenue in the period the related services
are provided and advertising revenues are recognized in the period the related
advertisements are exhibited. Rights to exhibit programming are purchased from
various cable networks. The costs of such rights are generally expensed as the
related services are made available to subscribers.

ADVERTISING COSTS

     Advertising costs are expensed upon the first exhibition of the related
advertisements and are recorded net of marketing credits earned from launch
incentive and cooperative advertising programs.

     During the four months ended April 30, 1999 the company earned marketing
credits in excess of advertising expense incurred. Advertising expense and
marketing credits amounted to $263 and $306, respectively, for the four months
ended April 30, 1999.

ESTIMATES USED IN FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

3.  ACQUISITIONS

BAYOU VISION, INC.

     On February 3, 1999, Media acquired the cable television assets of Bayou
Vision, Inc. and Gulf South Cable, Inc. serving approximately 1,950 subscribers
in the Villages of Estherwood, Morse and Mermentau and Acadia and Livingston
Parish, Louisiana. The cash purchase price was approximately $2,700 and was paid
out of available Company funds.

                                      F-59

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

4.  DEBT

     As of April 30, 1999, debt consisted of:



- ---------------
(a) On April 9, 1998, the Company issued $163,175 principal amount at maturity,
    $100,012 initial accreted value, of 10% senior discount notes due 2008 (the
    "Notes"). The Notes pay no cash interest until April 15, 2003. From and
    after April 15, 2003 the Notes will bear interest, payable semi-annually in
    cash, at a rate of 10% per annum on April 15 and October 15 of each year,
    commencing October 15, 2003. The Notes are due on April 15, 2008. The fair
    market value of the Notes at April 30, 1999 was $116,262. See Note 11
    regarding the offer to repurchase the Notes.

(b) On April 9, 1998, Media entered into a credit agreement among Morgan Stanley
    & Co. Incorporated as Placement Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc.,
    as Syndication Agent, the Lenders, CIBC Inc., as Documentation Agent and
    Bankers Trust Company as Administrative Agent (the "Credit Agreement"). The
    aggregate commitments under the Credit Agreement total $150,000, consisting
    of a $40,000 revolver (the "Revolver"), $60,000 Tranche A Term Loans and
    $50,000 Tranche B Term Loans (collectively the "Term Loans"). The Revolver
    and Term Loans are collateralized by a first lien position on all present
    and future assets and the member's interest of Media, Louisiana and
    Tennessee. The Credit Agreement provides for interest at varying rates based
    upon various borrowing options and the attainment of certain financial
    ratios and for commitment fees of 1/2% on the unused portion of the
    revolver. Management believes the terms are comparable to those that could
    be obtained from third parties. The effective interest rate, including
    commitment fees and amortization of related deferred financing costs and the
    interest-rate cap, for the four months ended April 30, 1999 was 7.58%. See
    Note 11 regarding the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Credit
    Agreement upon consummation of the Charter Transaction. The Credit Agreement
    and the indenture pursuant to which the Notes were issued contain
    restrictive covenants on the Company regarding additional indebtedness,
    investment guarantees, loans, acquisitions, dividends and merger or sale of
    the subsidiaries and require the maintenance of certain financial ratios.

5.  INTEREST RATE CAP AGREEMENT

     The Company purchases interest rate cap agreements that are designed to
limit its exposure to increasing interest rates and are designated to its
floating rate debt. The strike price of these agreements exceeds the current
market levels at the time they are entered into. The interest rate indices
specified by the agreements have been and are expected to be highly correlated
with the interest rates the Company incurs on its floating rate debt. Payments
to be received as a result of the specified interest rate index exceeding the
strike price are accrued in other assets and are recognized as a reduction of
interest expense (the accrual accounting method). The cost of these agreements
is included in other assets and amortized to interest expense ratably during the
life of the agreement. Upon termination of interest rate cap agreements, any
gain is deferred in other liabilities and amortized over the remaining term of
the original contractual life of the agreement as a reduction of interest
expense.

     The Company purchased an interest rate cap agreement from Morgan Stanley
Capital Services Inc. The carrying value as of April 30, 1999 was $34. The fair
value of the interest rate cap was $0 as of April 30, 1999.

                                      F-60

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

     The following table summarizes the interest rate cap agreement:



6.  TAXES

     For the four months ended April 30, 1999, the credit for taxes has been
calculated on a separate company basis. The components of the credit for taxes
are as follows:



     The Company's current state tax credit results from overpayment in 1998 of
franchise tax in Tennessee and Mississippi and tax on capital in New York.

     The Company has a net operating loss ("NOL") carry-forward for income tax
purposes which is available to offset future taxable income. This NOL totals
approximately $22,324 and will expire in the year 2018 and 2019 at $14,900 and
$7,424 respectively. The Company has established a valuation allowance to offset
the entire potential future tax benefit of the NOL carry-forward and, therefore,
has recognized no deferred tax asset with respect to the NOL.

     Louisiana and Tennessee have elected to be treated as corporations for
federal income tax purposes and have not recorded any tax benefit for their
losses as the realization of these losses by reducing future taxable income in
the carry forward period is uncertain at this time.

7.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

(A)  Transactions with Morgan Stanley entities

     In connection with the Acquisition, Media entered into the Credit Agreement
with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
(collectively the "Morgan Stanley Entities") acted as the Placement Agent for
the Notes. In connection with these services the Morgan Stanley Entities
received customary fees and expense reimbursement comparable to that of a third
party exchange.

(B)  Transactions with Time Warner and related parties

     In connection with the Acquisition, Media entered into an agreement with
Time Warner (the "Time Warner Agreement"), pursuant to which Time Warner managed
the Company's programming in exchange for providing the Company access to
certain Time Warner programming arrangements (the "Programming Arrangements").
Management believes that programming rates made available to the Company through
its

                                      F-61

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

relationship with Time Warner are lower than rates that the Company could obtain
separately. Such volume rates will not continue to be available after the
Charter Transaction.

     For the four months ended April 30, 1999, the Company incurred
approximately $2,716 in costs under the Programming Arrangements. In addition,
the Company has incurred programming costs of approximately $958 for programming
services owned directly or indirectly by Time Warner entities for the four
months ended April 30, 1999.

(C)  Transactions with board member

     The Company has utilized the law firm of one of its board members for legal
services for the Acquisition, financing agreements and various ongoing legal
matters. These fees totaled approximately $154 for the four months ended April
30, 1999.

8.  ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses as of April 30, 1999 consist of the following:



9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

     The Company sponsors a defined contribution plan which covers substantially
all employees (the "Plan"). The Plan provides for contributions from eligible
employees up to 15% of their compensation subject to Internal Revenue Code
limitations. The Company's contribution to the Plan is limited to 50% of each
eligible employee's contribution up to 10% of his or her compensation. The
Company has the right in any year to set the amount of the Company's
contribution percentage. Company matching contributions to the Plan for the four
months ended April 30, 1999 were approximately $54. All participant
contributions and earnings are fully vested upon contribution and Company
contributions and earnings vest 20% per year of employment with the Company,
becoming fully vested after five years.

     In connection with the Charter Transaction, the Plan's assets were frozen
as of April 30, 1999, and employees became fully vested. Effective July 1, 1999,
the Company's employees with two months of service are eligible to participate
in the Charter Communications, Inc. 401(k) Plan.

10.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

(A)  Leases

     The Company had rental expense under various lease and rental agreements
primarily for offices, tower sites and warehouses of approximately $59 for the
four months ended April 30, 1999. In addition, the Company rents utility poles
in its operations generally under short term arrangements, but the Company

                                      F-62

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

expects these arrangements to recur. Total rent expense for utility poles was
approximately $272 for the four months ended April 30, 1999.

     Future minimum annual rental payments under noncancellable leases are as
follows:



(B)  Employment Agreements

     Media entered into employment agreements with six senior executives, who
are also investors in Holdings, for the payment of salaries and bonuses. In
connection with the Charter Transaction, the employment agreements with the six
senior executives were terminated with no liability to the Company.

(C)  Other Agreements

     In exchange for certain flexibility in establishing cable rate pricing
structures for regulated services that went into effect on January 1, 1996, Time
Warner agreed with the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") to invest in
certain upgrades to its cable infrastructure (consisting primarily of materials
and labor in connection with the plant upgrades up to 750 MHz) by November 30,
2000. This agreement with the FCC (the "FCC Agreement") has been assumed by the
Company as part of the Acquisition and did not terminate as a result of the
Charter Transaction. The Company has agreed to invest approximately $25,100 in
upgrades to its cable infrastructure in accordance with the FCC Agreement.

     The Company has spent approximately $3,650 on such upgrades as of April 30,
1999.

11.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     The Charter Transaction was consummated at the close of business on April
30, 1999. In connection with the closing of the Charter Transaction, all amounts
outstanding under the Credit Agreement, including accrued interest and unpaid
fees, were paid in full and the Credit Agreement was terminated. The effects of
the debt repayment and the CC LLC capital contribution will be reflected in the
consolidated financial statements of the Company for periods subsequent to April
30, 1999.

     In connection with the closing of the Charter Transaction, the Time Warner
Agreement was terminated on April 30, 1999 and Media paid Time Warner $650 for
deferred marketing credits owed to program providers under the Programming
Arrangements. See Note 7 (Transactions with Time Warner and related parties).

     On May 28, 1999, as a result of the Charter Transaction (i.e., change of
control) and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the indenture
governing the Notes, the Company made an offer (the "Tender Offer") to purchase
any and all of the Notes at 101% of their accreted value, plus accrued and
unpaid interest, if any, through June 28, 1999. The Tender Offer expired on June
23, 1999, whereby 48,762 notes ($1,000 face amount at maturity) were validly
tendered and accepted for purchase. On June 28, 1999, Charter Communications
Operating, LLC, the indirect parent of Group, paid a sum of $34,223 for all of
the Notes

                                      F-63

                          RENAISSANCE MEDIA GROUP LLC

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

validly tendered. Accordingly, the Company recorded this payment for the
extinguishment of debt as a capital contribution.

12.  MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (UNAUDITED)

     Effective May 1, 1999, the Company is charged a management fee equal to
3.5% of revenues, as stipulated in the previous management agreement between
Charter and Charter Communications Operating, LLC ("CCO"), the indirect parent
of Group. To the extent that management fees charged to the Company are
greater/(less) than the proportionate share (based on basic subscribers) of
corporate expenses incurred by Charter on behalf of the Company, Group will
record distributions to/(capital contributions from) Charter. On November 12,
1999, Charter and CCO entered into a revised management agreement eliminating
the 3.5% management fee and entitling Charter to reimbursement from CCO of all
of its costs incurred in connection with the performance of its services under
the revised management agreement.

                                      F-64


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Greater Media, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying combined statements of income, changes in
net assets and cash flows of Greater Media Cablevision Systems (see Note 1)
(collectively, the "Combined Systems") included in Greater Media, Inc., for the
nine months ended June 30, 1999. These combined financial statements are the
responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these combined financial statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations of the Combined
Systems and their cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 1999, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
March 6, 2000

                                      F-65


                       GREATER MEDIA CABLEVISION SYSTEMS

                          COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-66


                       GREATER MEDIA CABLEVISION SYSTEMS

                  COMBINED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-67


                       GREATER MEDIA CABLEVISION SYSTEMS

                        COMBINED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-68


                       GREATER MEDIA CABLEVISION SYSTEMS
                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Organization, Basis of Presentation and Operations

     Greater Media Cablevision Systems is comprised of the following
Massachusetts-based cable television systems: Auburn, Boylston, Chicopee,
Dudley, East Longmeadow, Easthampton, Grafton, Hampden, Holden, Leicester,
Ludlow, Millbury, Northborough, Northbridge, Oxford, Paxton, Southampton,
Southborough, Southbridge, Spencer, Sturbridge, Upton, Webster, West Boylston,
West Brookfield, Westborough, Wilbraham and Worcester (the "Combined Systems").
The Combined Systems are wholly-owned by Greater Media Cablevision, Inc. (the
"Company"). The combined financial statements do not include the accounts of
Greater Philadelphia Cablevision, Inc. or Greater Philadelphia Cablevision
Limited Partnership, which are also wholly-owned by the Company. The Company is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Greater Media, Inc. (the "Parent"). On June 30,
1999, Charter Communications Entertainment I, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of
Charter Communications Holdings Company, LLC purchased the Combined Systems for
an aggregate purchase price of $500 million plus a working capital adjustment
(the "Charter Sale"). Effective with this change of ownership, the Combined
Systems will be managed by Charter Investment, Inc.

     Significant intercompany accounts and transactions between the Combined
Systems have been eliminated in the combined financial statements.

     The Combined Systems primarily provide cable television services to
subscribers in central and western Massachusetts.

Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Maintenance and repair costs are expensed when incurred. For financial
reporting purposes, depreciation is provided on the straight-line method based
on the following estimated useful lives:



     Depreciation expense for the nine months ended June 30, 1999, was $7,343.

Intangible Assets

     Intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill, which is amortized over
forty years, and costs incurred in obtaining and renewing cable franchises,
which are amortized over the life of the respective franchise agreements.
Amortization expense for the nine months ended June 30, 1999, was $55.

Revenues

     Cable television revenues from basic and premium services are recognized
when the related services are provided.

                                      F-69


Segments

     Segments have been identified based upon management responsibility. The
Company operates in one segment, cable services.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. INCOME TAXES

     The Combined Systems are included in the consolidated federal income tax
return of the Parent. The Parent is responsible for tax payments applicable to
the Combined Systems. The combined financial statements reflect a provision in
lieu of income taxes as if the Combined Systems were filing on a separate
company basis. Accordingly, the Combined Systems have included the provision in
lieu of income taxes as a component of net assets.

     The provision in lieu of income taxes approximates the amount of tax
computed using U.S. statutory rates, after reflecting state income tax expense.

3. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company and each of its subsidiaries are guarantors of the Parent's
debt.

     The combined statements include charges for certain corporate expenses
incurred by the Parent on behalf of the Combined Systems. Such charges amounted
to $3,175 for the nine months ended June 30, 1999. Management believes that this
cost is reasonable and reflects costs of doing business that the Combined
Systems would have incurred on a stand-alone basis.

4. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

401(k) Plan

     The Combined Systems' employees participate in the Greater Media, Inc.
401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Employees that qualify for participation can
contribute up to 12% of their salary, on a before tax basis, subject to a
maximum contribution limit as determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The
Combined Systems' contribute an amount equal to 50% of the participant's
contribution, limited to the lessor of 3% of the participant's compensation or
$1 per year. In connection with the Charter Sale, all employees became fully
vested. Following the Charter Sale, the Company's 401(k) plan was merged into
Charter Communication, Inc.'s.

     The Combined Systems expense relating to the 401(k) Plan for the nine
months ended June 30, 1999, was $123.

PENSION

     Certain employees of the Combined Systems participate in a pension plan
sponsored by the Parent. The Combined Systems allocable share of the pension
expense amounted to $57 for the nine months ended June 30, 1999. As a result of
the Charter Sale, the Combined Systems' employees became fully vested with
respect to their plan benefits. No additional benefits will accrue to such
employees in the future. In addition, the Parent is responsible for the
allocable pension liability and will continue to administer the plan on behalf
of the Combined Systems' employees.

                                      F-70


5. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Leases

     The Combined Systems lease certain facilities and equipment under
noncancelable operating leases. Rent expense incurred for the nine months ended
June 30, 1999, was $249.

     The Company also rents utility poles in its operations. Generally, pole
rentals are cancelable on short notice, but the Company anticipates that such
rentals will recur. Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the
nine months ended June 30, 1999, was $479.

Litigation

     The Combined Systems are a party to lawsuits that arise in the ordinary
course of conducting its business. In the opinion of management, after
consulting with legal counsel, the outcome of these lawsuits will not have a
material adverse effect on the Combined Systems' combined financial position or
results of operations.

Regulation in the Cable Television Industry

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable television systems. The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) has principal responsibility for implementing the policies of
the Cable Acts. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of
judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation
and regulations continue to change, and the Combined Systems cannot predict the
impact of future developments on the cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable television
systems and have resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and
local or state franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC
regulations have established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. The Combined Systems
may be required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Combined Systems believe that it has complied in all material respects
with the provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Combined Systems are unable to justify its basic rates. The
Combined Systems are unable to estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if
any, that may be payable by the Combined Systems in the event certain of its
rates are successfully challenged by franchising authorities or found to be
unreasonable by the FCC. The Combined Systems do not believe that the amount of
any such refunds would have a material adverse effect on the financial position
or results of operations of the Combined Systems.

     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulated rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC has taken the position that it will
still adjudicate pending CPST complaints but will strictly limit its review, and
possible refund orders, to the time period predating the sunset date, March 31,
1999. The Combined Systems do not believe any adjudications regarding their
pre-sunset complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Combined
Systems' financial position or results of operations.

     A number of states subject cable television systems to the jurisdiction of
centralized state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a
character similar to that of a public utility. State governmental agencies are
required to follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and thus, state
regulation of cable television rates is not allowed to be more restrictive than
the federal or local regulation.

                                      F-71


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Helicon Partners I, L.P.:

     We have audited the accompanying combined statements of operations, changes
in net assets and cash flows of Helicon Partners I, L.P. and affiliates for the
seven months ended July 30, 1999. These combined financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations of Helicon Partners
I, L.P. and affiliates and their cash flows for the seven months ended July 30,
1999 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
March 6, 2000

                                      F-72


                    HELICON PARTNERS I, L.P. AND AFFILIATES
                        COMBINED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-73


                    HELICON PARTNERS I, L.P. AND AFFILIATES
               COMBINED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS' DEFICIT



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-74


                    HELICON PARTNERS I, L.P. AND AFFILIATES

                        COMBINED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined statements.
                                      F-75


                    HELICON PARTNERS I, L.P. AND AFFILIATES

                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS

     Helicon Partners I, L.P. ("the Partnership") was organized as a limited
partnership under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Partnership owns all of
the limited partnership interests in THGLP, representing a 99% ownership, and
Baum Investment, Inc. ("Baum"), the general partner of THGLP, owns the 1%
general partnership interest in THGLP. The Partnership also owns a 99% interest
and THGLP owns a 1% interest in HPI Acquisition Co., LLC ("HPIAC"). The
Partnership also owns an 89% limited partnership interest and Baum a 1% general
partnership interest in Helicon OnLine, L.P. ("HOL"). The Partnership, THGLP,
HPIAC and HOL are referred to collectively herein as the Company.

     The Company operates in one business segment offering cable television
services in the states of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Louisiana, Vermont, New Hampshire, Georgia and Tennessee. The Company
also offers to customers advanced services, such as paging and private data
network systems, including dial up access and a broad range of Internet access
services in Pennsylvania and Vermont, dedicated high speed access, high speed
cable modem access, world wide web design, and hosting services.

     On July 30, 1999, Charter-Helicon, LLC ("Charter-Helicon"), acquired a 1%
interest in THGLP previously owned by Baum and became the General Partner of
THGLP. Concurrently, Charter-Helicon and Charter Communications, LLC ("CC-LLC"),
parent of Charter-Helicon, acquired all of the partnership interests of the
Partnership. These transactions are collectively referred to as the
"Helicon/Charter Deal" herein. In connection with the Helicon/Charter Deal,
$228,985,000 of cash was paid to the equity holders; Baum retained a $25,000,000
limited liability company membership interest in Charter-Helicon; debt of
$197,447,000 was repaid; debt of $115,000,000 was assumed; and other costs
totaling $4,285,000 were incurred by CC-LLC.

     The post-closing process associated with the Helicon/Charter Deal has not
been finished. Accordingly, the accompanying combined financial statements may
not give effect to all adjustments arising from the change of ownership of the
Company.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Combination

     The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of the
Partnership, THGLP, HPIAC and HOL, which have been combined because of common
ownership and control. They also reflect the accounts of THGLP's subsidiary,
Helicon Capital Corp., which has nominal assets and no operations since its
incorporation. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in combination.

Partnership Profits, Losses and Distributions

     Under the terms of the partnership agreements of the Partnership and THGLP,
profits, losses and distributions will be made to the general and Class A
Limited Partners pro-rata based on their respective partnership interest.
Holders of Preferred Limited Partnership Interests are entitled to an aggregate
preference on liquidation of $6,250,000 plus cumulative in-kind distributions of
additional Preferred Limited Partnership interests at an annual rate of 12%.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

                                      F-76


Revenue Recognition

     Revenue is recognized as services are provided to subscribers. Subscription
revenues billed in advance for services are deferred and recorded as income in
the period in which services are rendered.

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the respective
assets.

Intangible Assets and Deferred Costs

     Intangible assets and deferred costs are carried at cost and are amortized
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the respective
assets. When changes in events or circumstances warrant, the Company reviews the
amortization periods of their intangible assets and deferred costs. The Company
evaluates whether there has been a permanent impairment in the value of these
assets by considering such factors including the projected undiscounted cash
flows, current market conditions and changes in the cable television industry
that would impact the recoverability of such assets.

Income Taxes

     No provision for Federal or state income taxes has been made in the
accompanying combined financial statements since any liability for such income
taxes is that of the partners and not of the Company.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

3. ACQUISITIONS

     On January 7, 1999, THGLP acquired cable television systems serving
subscribers in the North Carolina counties of Carter, Johnson and Unicol. The
aggregate purchase price was $5,228,097 and was allocated to the net assets
acquired, which included property, plant and equipment and intangible assets,
based on their estimated fair values.

     On March 1, 1999, HPIAC acquired a cable television system serving
subscribers in the communities of Abbeville, Donalds and Due West, South
Carolina. The aggregate purchase price was $723,356 and was allocated to the net
assets acquired, which included property, plant and equipment, and intangible
assets, based on their estimated fair value.

     The operating results relating to the above acquisitions are included in
the accompanying combined financial statements from the acquisition dates
forward. Pro forma operating results for 1999 as though the acquisitions had
occurred on January 1, 1999, would not be materially different than historical
operating results.

4. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

     Amounts due from/to affiliates result from management fees, expense
allocations and temporary non-interest bearing loans. The affiliates are related
to the Company through common ownership. Effective upon the execution of the
Charter/Helicon Deal, Charter Investment, Inc. is the manager of the Company's
operations.

                                      F-77


     The Partnership was managed by Helicon Corp., an affiliated management
company. During the seven months ended July 30, 1999, the Partnership was
charged a management fee of $2,511,416. Management fees are calculated based on
the gross revenues of the systems.

5. SENIOR SECURED NOTES

     THGLP and HCC (the "Issuers"), through a private placement offering, issued
$115,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 11% Senior Secured Notes due 2003
(the "Senior Secured Notes"), secured by substantially all the assets of THGLP.
Interest is payable on a semi-annual basis in arrears on November 1 and May 1.
The discount on the Senior Secured Notes is being amortized over the term of the
Senior Secured Notes so as to result in an effective interest rate of 11% per
annum.

6. LOANS PAYABLE TO BANKS

     On January 5, 1999, THGLP entered into a $12,000,000 Senior Subordinated
Loan Agreement with Paribas Capital Funding, LLC (the "1999 Credit Facility").
Initial borrowings of $7,000,000 under the 1999 Credit Facility financed the
acquisition of certain cable television systems in North Carolina. On February
19, 1999, the Company borrowed the remaining $5,000,000 available under the 1999
Credit Facility. Interest on the 1999 Credit Facility is payable at 11.5% per
annum. On July 30, 1999, the amounts outstanding were repaid and the 1999 Credit
Facility was terminated in connection with the Helicon/Charter Deal.

7. REDEEMABLE PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS

     In April 1996, the Partnership sold to unrelated investors, $34,000,000
aggregate principal amount of 12% Subordinated Notes (the "Subordinated Notes")
and warrants (the "Warrants") to purchase 2,419.1 units of Class B Limited
Partnership Interests (the "Units").

     The Subordinated Notes are subordinated to the senior indebtedness of the
Partnership and are due April 1, 2004. Interest is payable semi-annually on each
October 1 and April 1 in cash or through the issuance of additional Subordinated
Notes, at the option of the Partnership. In the past, the Partnership has
elected to satisfy interest due through the issuance of additional Subordinated
Notes. The Partnership issued $2,706,044 of additional Subordinated Notes to pay
interest due in April 1999.

     Holders of the Warrants had the right to acquire the Units at any time for
a price of $1,500 per Unit. The Partnership estimated the Net Equity Value of
the Warrants to be approximately $43,250,000 at December 31, 1998. The Net
Equity Value, pursuant to the terms of the agreement, is the estimated amount of
cash that would be available for distribution to the Partnership interests upon
a sale of all the assets of the Partnership and its subsequent dissolution and
liquidation. Such estimate as of December 31, 1998 reflects the amount that the
holders of the Warrants have agreed to accept for their interests assuming a
proposed sale of all of the interests of the Partnership is consummated. The
increase in the Net Equity Value over the original carrying value of the
Warrants is being accreted evenly over the period beginning with the date of the
increase through September 2001. Such accretion is being reflected in the
accompanying financial statements as an increase in the carrying value of the
Warrants and the corresponding reduction in the carrying value of the capital
accounts of the General and Class A Limited Partners.

     Immediately prior to the closing of the Helicon/Charter Deal. Baum
contributed $3,628, 250 to exercise the Warrants and received 2,419.1 Units.
This transaction triggered the acceleration of the accretion of the Units to
their estimated Net Equity Value. Upon the close of the Charter/Helicon Deal,
the holders received $43,250,000 in exchange for the Units.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Leases

     The Company leases telephone and utility poles on an annual basis. The
leases are self-renewing. Pole rental expenses for the seven months ended July
30, 1999 was $687.

                                      F-78


     The Company utilizes certain office space under operating lease agreements,
which expire at various dates through August 2013 and contain renewal options.
Office rent expense was $192 for the seven months ended July 30, 1999.

Litigation

     The Company is a party to lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of
conducting its business. In the opinion of management, after consulting with
legal counsel, the outcome of these lawsuits will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's combined financial position or results of operations.

Regulation in the Cable Television Industry

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable television systems. The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) has principal responsibility for implementing the policies of
the Cable Acts. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of
judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation
and regulations continue to change, and the Company cannot predict the impact of
future developments on the cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable television
systems and have resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and
local or state franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC
regulations have established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. The Company may be
required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Company believes that it has complied in all material respects with the
provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Company is unable to justify its basic rates. The Company
is unable to estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if any, that may be
payable by the Company in the event certain of its rates are successfully
challenged by franchising authorities or found to be unreasonable by the FCC.
The Company does not believe that the amount of any such refunds would have a
material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of
the Company.

     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulated rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC has taken the position that it will
still adjudicate pending CPST complaints but will strictly limit its review, and
possible refund orders, to the time period predating the sunset date, March 31,
1999. The Company does not believe any adjudications regarding their pre-sunset
complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position or results of operations.

     A number of states subject cable television systems to the jurisdiction of
centralized state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a
character similar to that of a public utility. State governmental agencies are
required to follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and thus, state
regulation of cable television rates is not allowed to be more restrictive than
the federal or local regulation.

                                      F-79


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Partners of
Rifkin Cable Income Partners L.P.

     In our opinion, the accompanying balance sheet and the related statements
of operations, of equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Rifkin Cable Income Partners L.P. (the
"Partnership") at September 13, 1999, and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Partnership's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States, which require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.

     On September 13, 1999, all of the Partnership's interest were sold to
Charter Communications, LLC. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to that transaction and do not reflect any adjustments
related thereto.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 15, 2000

                                      F-80


                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                                 BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-81


                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                            STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-82


                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                              STATEMENT OF EQUITY



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-83


                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                            STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-84


                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

ORGANIZATION

     Rifkin Cable Income Partners L.P. (the "Partnership") was originally formed
in 1986 as a limited partnership under the laws of the State of Delaware. The
Partnership owns, operates and develops cable television systems in Missouri and
New Mexico.

ACQUISITION BY INTERLINK COMMUNICATIONS PARTNERS, LLLP AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Effective December 31, 1998, Interlink Communications Partners, LLLP
("ICP") acquired all of the Partnership's limited partner interest, and agreed
to purchase all of the Partnership's interest for $21.7 million. This
transaction was accounted for as a purchase; as such, assets and liabilities
were written up to their fair value, resulting in an increase to property, plant
and equipment and franchise costs of $6.4 million and $11.7 million,
respectively.

     Effective April 1, 1999, ICP completed the purchase of the remaining
general partner interest in the Partnership and the Partnership was merged into
ICP and ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. The Partnership's financial
statements subsequent to that date represent a divisional carve-out from ICP.
These financial statements include all the direct costs of operating its
business; however, certain assets, liabilities and costs not specifically
related to the Partnership's activities were allocated and reflected in the
financial position as of September 13, 1999, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999.
Allocations from ICP include amounts for debt, interest expense and management
expense. Both debt and interest expense were allocated pro rata based on the
Partnership's percentage of subscribers to total ICP subscribers. Management
expense was allocated in accordance with the management agreement (Note 2). In
addition, receivables and payables to ICP are presented in the accompanying
financial statements net as amounts due to/from interpartnership. Management
believes these allocations were made on a reasonable basis. Nonetheless, the
financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect what the
financial position and results of operations of the Partnership would have been
as a stand-alone entity.

ACQUISITION BY CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, LLC

     On February 12, 1999, ICP signed a letter of intent to sell all of ICP's
partnership interest to Charter Communications Holdings, LLC ("Charter"). On
April 26, 1999, ICP signed a definitive Purchase and Sales Agreement with
Charter for the sale of the individual partner's interest. The sales transaction
closed on September 13, 1999. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to the transaction and do not reflect any related
adjustments.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, which in
the case of assets constructed includes amounts for material, labor, overhead
and capitalized interest, if applicable. Upon sale or retirement of an asset,
the related costs and accumulated depreciation were removed from the accounts
and any gain or loss is recognized.

     Depreciation expense is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:



                                      F-85

                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FRANCHISE COSTS

     Franchise costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the
remaining lives of the franchises as of the date they were acquired, ranging
from 1 to 18 years. The carrying value is assessed for recoverability by
management based on an analysis of undiscounted expected future cash flows. The
Partnership's management believes that there has been no impairment thereof as
of September 13, 1999.

INCOME TAXES

     No provision for federal or state income taxes is necessary in the
financial statements of the Partnership, because as a partnership, it is not
subject to federal or state income tax as the tax effect of its activities
accrues to the partners.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Customer fees are recorded as revenue in the period the service is
provided. The cost to acquire the rights to the programming generally is
recorded when the product is initially available to be viewed by the customer.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES

     Advertising and promotion expenses are charged to income during the year in
which they are incurred and were not significant for the period shown.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2.  MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

     The Partnership has a management agreement with R & A Management, LLC
("RML"). The management agreement provides that RML shall act as manager of the
Partnership's CATV systems, and shall be entitled to annual compensation of 5%
of the Partnership's CATV revenues, net of certain CATV programming costs. The
result of this transaction included the conveyance of the Rifkin management
agreement ("Rifkin Agreement") to RML ("RML Agreement"). Expenses incurred
pursuant to this agreement and the RML Agreement are disclosed in total on the
Statement of Operations.

3.  DEBT

     The Partnership has an interpartnership debt with ICP. Borrowings,
including both principal and interest, at September 13, 1999 were $15,621,000
and had an effective interest rate of 8.68%.

     ICP has a term loan and revolving loan agreement with a bank. The amount of
the term loan is $150,000,000, and requires varying quarterly payments plus
interest commencing September 30, 2001 and continuing through March 31, 2007. On
February 1, 1999, the term loan agreement was amended to increase the loan
amount to $250,000,000. On July 16, 1999, the term loan agreement was amended
again to increase the loan amount to $290,000,000. The interest rate on the term
loan is generally the bank's prime rate plus 0% to 1.50%. The weighted average
effective rate at September 13, 1999 was 8.74%.

     The revolving loan agreement provided for borrowing up to $100,000,000 at
the Company's discretion. At September 13, 1999, $91,000,000 had been drawn
against the $100,000,000 commitment. The revolving credit agreement expires on
March 31, 2007. The revolver bears an interest rate at the bank's prime rate
plus 0% to
                                      F-86

                       RIFKIN CABLE INCOME PARTNERS, L.P.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.50% or LIBOR plus 1.25% to 2.75%. The specific rate is dependent upon the
leverage ratio of ICP, which is recalculated quarterly. The weighted average
effective interest rate at September 13, 1999 was 8.5%.

     The term loan and revolving loan agreement are collateralized by
substantially all assets of ICP and its consolidated entities, including the
Partnership.

4.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Partnership leases certain real and personal property under
noncancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under these
arrangements at September 13, 1999, were as follows:



     Total rent expense for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 was
$60,870, including $38,239 relating to cancelable pole rental agreements.

5.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Partnership has a 401(k) plan for its employees that have been employed
by the Partnership for at least one year. Employees of the Partnership can
contribute up to 15% of their salary, on a before-tax basis, with a maximum 1999
contribution of $10,000 (as set by the Internal Revenue Service). The
Partnership matches participant contributions up to a maximum of 50% of the
first 3% of a participant's salary contributed. All participant contributions
and earnings are fully vested upon contribution and Partnership contributions
and earnings vest 20% per year of employment with the Partnership, becoming
fully vested after five years. The Partnership's matching contributions for the
period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 were $3,850.

6.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Partnership has a number of financial instruments, none of which are
held for trading purposes. The following method and assumptions were used by the
Partnership to estimate the fair values of financial instruments as disclosed
herein:

     Cash, customer accounts receivable, other receivables, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities and customer deposits and prepayments: The carrying value
amount approximates fair value because of the short period to maturity.

     The interest rate on debt is adjusted at least quarterly; therefore, the
carrying value of debt approximates its fair value.

7.  LITIGATION

     The Partnership could possibly be named as defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising from the normal course of business. In all such cases, the
Partnership will vigorously defend itself against the litigation and, where
appropriate, will file counterclaims. Although the eventual outcome of potential
lawsuits cannot be predicted, it is management's opinion that any such lawsuit
will not result in liabilities that would have a material affect on the
Partnership's financial position or results of operations.

                                      F-87


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Partners of
Rifkin Acquisition Partners, L.L.L.P.

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
consolidated statements of operations, partners' capital and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Rifkin Acquisition
Partners, L.L.L.P. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at September 13, 1999,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the period from
January 1, 1999 through September 13, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Partnership has
changed its method of accounting for start up costs in fiscal 1999.

     On September 13, 1999, all of the Partnership's interest were sold to
Charter Communications, LLC. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to that transaction and do not reflect any adjustments
related thereto.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 15, 2000

                                      F-88


                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-89


                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-90


                      RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PARTNERS' CAPITAL



     The partners' capital accounts for financial reporting purposes vary from
the tax capital accounts.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-91


                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-92


                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

GENERAL INFORMATION

     Rifkin Acquisition Partners, L.L.L.P. ("the Partnership") was formed
pursuant to the laws of the State of Colorado. The Partnership and its
subsidiaries are hereinafter referred to on a consolidated basis as the
"Company." The Company owns, operates, and develops cable television systems in
Georgia, Tennessee and Illinois. Rifkin Acquisition Management, L.P., an
affiliate of R & A Management LLC (Note 4), is the general partner of the
Partnership ("General Partner").

     The Partnership operates under a limited liability limited partnership
agreement (the "Partnership Agreement") which establishes contribution
requirements, enumerates the rights and responsibilities of the partners and
advisory committee, provides for allocations of income, losses and distributions
and defines certain items relating thereto. The Partnership Agreement provides
that net income or loss, certain defined capital events and cash distributions,
all as defined in the Partnership Agreement, are generally allocated 99% to the
limited partners and 1% to the General Partner.

ACQUISITION BY CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, LLC

     On February 12, 1999, the Company signed a letter of intent for the
partners to sell all of their partnership interests to Charter Communications,
LLC ("Charter"). On April 26, 1999, the Company signed a definitive Purchase and
Sale Agreement with Charter for the sale of the individual partners' interest.
The sales transaction closed on September 13, 1999. These statements represent
the Company just prior to the transaction and do not reflect any adjustment
related thereto.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the following
entities:



     All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

     REVENUE AND PROGRAMMING

     Customer fees are recorded as revenue in the period the service is
provided. The cost to acquire the rights to the programming generally is
recorded when the product is initially available to be viewed by the customer.

     ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES

     Advertising and promotion expenses are charged to income during the year in
which they are incurred and were not significant for the period shown.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, which in
the case of assets constructed, includes amounts for material, labor, overhead
and interest, if applicable. Upon sale or retirement of an asset, the related
costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gain or
loss is recognized. Capitalized interest was not significant for the period
shown.

                                      F-93

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Depreciation expense is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:



     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.

FRANCHISE COSTS

     Franchise costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the
remaining lives of the franchises as of the date they were acquired, ranging
from one to twenty years. The carrying value of franchise costs is assessed for
recoverability by management based on an analysis of undiscounted future
expected cash flows from the underlying operations of the Company. Management
believes that there has been no impairment thereof as of September 13, 1999.

OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Certain loan costs have been deferred and are amortized to interest expense
utilizing the straight-line method over the remaining term of the related debt.
Use of the straight-line method approximates the results of the application of
the interest method. The net amounts remaining at September 13, 1999 were
$5,481,111.

REDEEMABLE PARTNERS' INTERESTS

     The Partnership Agreement provides that if a certain partner dies or
becomes disabled, that partner (or his personal representative) shall have the
option, exercisable by notice given to the partners at any time within 270 days
after his death or disability (except that if that partner dies or becomes
disabled prior to August 31, 2000, the option may not be exercised until August
31, 2000 and then by notice by that partner or his personal representative given
to the partners within 270 days after August 31, 2000) to sell, and require the
General Partner and certain trusts controlled by that partner to sell, and the
Partnership to purchase, up to 50% of the partnership interests owned by any of
such partners and certain current and former members of management of R&A
Management LLC that requests to sell their interest, for a purchase price equal
to the fair market value of those interests determined by appraisal in
accordance with the Partnership Agreement. Accordingly, the current fair value
of such partnership interests have been reclassified outside of partners'
capital.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

     Effective January 1, 1999, the Company adopted, the Accounting Standards
Executive Committee's Statement of Position 98-5 ("SOP 98-5") Reporting on the
Costs of Start-Up Activities, which requires the Company to expense all start up
costs related to organizing a new business. During the first quarter of 1999,
the Company wrote off the net book value of organization costs capitalized in
prior years resulting in the recognition of a cumulative effect of accounting
change of $111,607.

                                      F-94

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2.  INCOME TAXES

     Although the Partnership is not a taxable entity, two corporations (the
"Subsidiaries") are included in the consolidated financial statements. These
subsidiaries are required to pay taxes on their taxable income, if any.

     The following represents a reconciliation of pre-tax losses as reported in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
and the losses attributable to the partners and included in their individual
income tax returns for the period from January 1, 1999 through September 13,
1999:



     The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method. Under
this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities
and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect
when the differences are expected to reverse.

     As a result of a change in control in 1995, the book value of the Company's
net assets was increased to reflect their fair market value. In connection with
this revaluation, a deferred income tax liability in the amount of $22,801,000
was established to provide for future taxes payable on the revised valuation of
the net assets. A deferred tax benefit of $1,975,000 was recognized for the
period from January 1, 1999 through September 13, 1999, reducing the liability
to $5,967,000.

     Deferred tax asset (liability) was comprised of the following at September
13, 1999:



     As of September 13, 1999, the Subsidiaries have net operating loss
carryforwards ("NOLs") for income tax purposes of $34,589,000 substantially all
of which are limited. The NOLs will expire at various times between the years
2000 and 2018. It is the opinion of management that the NOLs will be released
from this limitation prior to their expiration dates and, as such, have not been
limited in their calculation of deferred taxes. As the result of the sale of the
Partnership's interest to Charter, a change in control, as defined in Section
382 of the Internal Revenue Code, has occurred which may limit Charter's ability
to utilize these NOLs.

                                      F-95

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The benefit for taxes differs from the amount which would be computed by
applying the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% to the Company's pre-tax
loss before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle as a result of
the following for the period January 1, 1999 through September 13, 1999:



3.  NOTES PAYABLE

     Debt consisted of the following at September 13, 1999:



     The notes and loans are collateralized by substantially all of the assets
of the Company.

     On January 26, 1996, the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, RACC (the
"Issuers"), co-issued $125,000,000 of 11 1/8% Senior Subordinated Notes (the
"Notes") to institutional investors. These notes were subsequently exchanged on
June 18, 1996 for publicly registered notes with identical terms. Interest on
the Notes is payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. The
Notes, which mature on January 15, 2006, can be redeemed in whole or in part, at
the Issuers' option, at any time on or after January 15, 2001, at redeemable
prices contained in the Notes plus accrued interest. At September 13, 1999, all
of the Notes were outstanding (see also Note 8).

     The Company has a $25,000,000 Tranche A term loan with a financial
institution. This loan requires quarterly payments of $1,875,000 plus interest
commencing on March 31, 2000. Any unpaid balance is due March 31, 2003. The
agreement requires what it defines as excess proceeds from the sale of a cable
system to be used to retire Tranche A term debt. As a result of the Company
selling its assets in the State of Michigan in a prior year, there was
$3,425,000 in excess proceeds which were used to pay principal. The interest
rate on the Tranche A term loan is either the bank's prime rate plus .25% to
1.75% or LIBOR plus 1.5% to 2.75%.

     The specific rate is dependent upon the senior funded debt ratio which is
recalculated quarterly. The weighted average effective interest rate at
September 13, 1999 was 7.23%.

     In addition, the Company has a $40,000,000 Tranche B term loan, which
requires principal payments of $2,000,000 on March 31, 2002, $18,000,000 on
March 31, 2003, and $20,000,000 on March 31, 2004. The Tranche B term loan bears
an interest rate of 9.75% and is payable quarterly.

     The Company also has a reducing revolving loan providing for borrowing up
to $20,000,000 at the Company's discretion, subject to certain restrictions, and
an additional $60,000,000 available to finance acquisitions subject to certain
restrictions. The additional financing amount available at September 13, 1999
was $40,000,000. At September 13, 1999, the full $20,000,000 available had been
borrowed, and $26,500,000 had been drawn against the $40,000,000 commitment. The
amount available for borrowing will decrease

                                      F-96

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

annually during its term with changes over the three years following September
13, 1999 as follows: 1999 -- $2,500,000 reduction per quarter and 2000 through
2002 -- $3,625,000 reduction per quarter. Any unpaid balance is due on March 31,
2003. The revolving loan bears an interest rate of either the bank's prime rate
plus .25% to 1.75% or LIBOR plus 1.5% to 2.75%. The specific rate is dependent
upon the senior funded debt ratio which is recalculated quarterly. The weighted
average effective interest rates at September 13, 1999 was 8.92%. The reducing
revolving loan includes a commitment fee of 1/2% per annum on the unborrowed
balance.

     Certain mandatory prepayments may also be required on the Tranche A term
loan, the Tranche B term loan, and the reducing revolving credit based on the
Company's cash flow calculations, proceeds from the sale of a cable system or
equity contributions. Optional prepayments are allowed, subject to certain
restrictions. The related loan agreement contains covenants limiting additional
indebtedness, dispositions of assets, investments in securities, distribution to
partners, management fees and capital expenditures. In addition, the Company
must maintain certain financial levels and ratios. At September 13, 1999, the
Company was in compliance with these covenants.

     The Company also has $3,000,000 of senior subordinated debt payable to a
Rifkin Partner. The debt has a scheduled maturity, interest rate and interest
payment schedule identical to that of the Notes, as discussed above.

     Based on the outstanding debt as of September 13, 1999, the minimum
aggregate maturities for the four years following 1999 are: $13,500,000 in 2000,
$22,000,000 in 2001, $23,075,000 in 2002, $29,500,000 in 2003 and $20,000,000 in
2004.

     Subsequent to September 13, 1999, $124.1 million of the $125 million in
notes outstanding were purchased by Charter Communication and will be reflected
as intercompany payable between Charter and RAP. The remaining $900,000 of
outstanding notes were delisted and are no longer public.

4.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company has a management agreement with R & A Management LLC ("RML").
The management agreement provides that RML shall manage the Company's CATV
systems and shall be entitled to annual compensation of 3.5% of the Company's
revenue. Expenses incurred pursuant to this agreement are disclosed in total in
the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

     Certain Partnership expenses were paid by Charter and are reflected as
Payables to affiliates in the accompanying financial statements.

5.  COMMITMENTS AND RENTAL EXPENSE

     The Company leases certain real and personal property under noncancelable
operating leases expiring through the year 2007. Future minimum lease payments
under such noncancelable leases as of September 13, 1999 are:



                                      F-97

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Total rental expense and the amount included therein which pertains to
cancelable pole rental agreements were as follows for the period indicated:



6.  COMPENSATION PLANS AND RETIREMENT PLANS

EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

     The Company maintains an Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") in which
certain Rifkin executive officers and key employees, and certain key employees
of the Company are eligible to participate. Plan participants in the aggregate,
have the right to receive (i) cash payments of up to 2.0% of the aggregate value
of all partnership interests of the Company (the "Maximum Incentive
Percentage"), based upon the achievement of certain annual Operating Cash Flow
(as defined in the Plan) targets for the Company for each of the calendar years
1996 through 2000, and (ii) an additional cash payment equal to up to 0.5% of
the aggregate value of all partnership interests of the Company (the "Additional
Incentive Percentage"), based upon the achievement of certain cumulative
Operating Cash Flow targets for the Company for the five-year period ended
December 31, 2000. Subject to the achievement of such annual targets and the
satisfaction of certain other criteria based on the Company's operating
performance, up to 20% of the Maximum Incentive Percentage will vest in each
such year; provided, that in certain events vesting may accelerate. Payments
under the Plan are subject to certain restrictive covenants contained in the
Notes.

     No amounts are payable under the Plan except upon (i) the sale of
substantially all of the assets or partnership interests of the Company or (ii)
termination of a Plan participant's employment with Rifkin or the Company, as
applicable, due to (a) the decision of the Advisory Committee to terminate such
participant's employment due to disability, (b) the retirement of such
participant with the Advisory Committee's approval or (c) the death of such
Participant. The value of amounts payable pursuant to clause (i) above will be
based upon the aggregate net proceeds received by the holders of all of the
partnership interests in the Company, as determined by the Advisory Committee,
and the amounts payable pursuant to clause (ii) above will be based upon the
Enterprise Value determined at the time of such payment. For purposes of the
Plan, Enterprise Value generally is defined as Operating Cash Flow for the
immediately preceding calendar year times a specified multiple and adjusted
based on the Company's working capital.

     The amount expensed for the period January 1, 1999 through September 13,
1999 relating to this plan was $7,440,964. The incentive accrual is recorded in
accounts payable and accrued liabilities in the accompanying financial
statements.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Company has a 401(k) plan for employees that have been employed by the
Company for at least one year. Employees of the Company can contribute up to 15%
of their salary, on a before-tax basis, with a maximum 1999 contribution of
$10,000 (as set by the Internal Revenue Service). The Company matches
participant contributions up to a maximum of 50% of the first 3% of a
participant's salary contributed. All participant contributions and earnings are
fully vested upon contribution and Company contributions and earnings vest 20%
per year of employment with the Company, becoming fully vested after five years.
The Company's matching contribution for the period from January 1, 1999 through
September 13, 1999 was $61,178.

                                      F-98

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Company has a number of financial instruments, none of which are held
for trading purposes. The following method and assumptions were used by the
Company to estimate the fair values of financial instruments as disclosed
herein:

     Cash, customer accounts receivable, other receivables, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities and customer deposits and prepayments: The carrying value
amount approximates fair value because of the short period to maturity.

     Debt: The fair value of bank debt is estimated based on interest rates for
the same or similar debt offered to the Company having the same or similar
remaining maturities and collateral requirements. The fair value of public
Senior Subordinated Notes is based on the market quoted trading value. The fair
value of the Company's debt is estimated at $247,637,500 and is carried on the
balance sheet at $236,075,000.

8.  SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     CEM, CEI and CEC (collectively, the "Guarantors") are all wholly owned
subsidiaries of the Company and, together with RACC, constitute all of the
Partnership's direct and indirect subsidiaries. Each of the Guarantors provides
a full, unconditional, joint and several guaranty of the obligations under the
Notes discussed in Note 6. Separate financial statements of the Guarantors are
not presented because management has determined that they would not be material
to investors.

     The following present summarized financial information of the Guarantors on
a combined basis as of September 13, 1999 and for the period January 1, 1999
through September 13, 1999.

BALANCE SHEET



                                      F-99

                     RIFKIN ACQUISITION PARTNERS, L.L.L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



9.  LITIGATION

     The Company could possibly be named as defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising from the normal course of business. In all such cases, the
Company will vigorously defend itself against the litigation and, where
appropriate, will file counterclaims. Although the eventual outcome of potential
lawsuits cannot be predicted, it is management's opinion that any such lawsuit
will not result in liabilities that would have a material affect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

                                      F-100


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Partners of
Indiana Cable Associates, Ltd.

     In our opinion, the accompanying balance sheet and the related statements
of operations, of equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Rifkin Cable Income Partners L.P. (the
"Partnership") at September 13, 1999, and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Partnership's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States, which require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.

     On September 13, 1999, all of the Partnership's interest were sold to
Charter Communications, LLC. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to that transaction and do not reflect any adjustments
related thereto.

/S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

DENVER, COLORADO
  FEBRUARY 15, 2000

                                      F-101


                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                                 BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-102


                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                            STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



The accompany notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-103


                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                              STATEMENT OF EQUITY



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-104


                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                            STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
                                      F-105


                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

ORGANIZATION

     Indiana Cable Associates, Ltd. (the "Partnership"), a Colorado limited
partnership, was originally organized in March 1987 for the purpose of acquiring
and operating cable television systems and related operations in Indiana and
Illinois.

ACQUISITION BY INTERLINK COMMUNICATIONS PARTNERS, LLLP AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Effective December 31, 1998, Interlink Communications Partners, LLLP
("ICP") acquired all of the Partnership's limited partner interest, and agreed
to purchase all of the general Partners' interest for $23.1 million. This
transaction was accounted for as a purchase; as such, assets and liabilities
were written up to their fair value, resulting in an increase to property, plant
and equipment and franchise costs of $7.0 million and $16.8 million,
respectively.

     Effective April 1, 1999, ICP completed the purchase of the remaining
general partner interest in the Partnership and the Partnership was merged into
ICP and ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. The Partnership's financial
statements subsequent to that date represent a divisional carve-out from ICP.

     These financial statements include all the direct costs of operating its
business; however, certain assets, liabilities and costs not specifically
related to the Partnership's activities were allocated and reflected in the
financial position as of September 13, 1999, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999.
Allocations from ICP include amounts for debt, interest expense and management
expense. Both debt and interest expense were allocated pro rata based on the
Partnership's percentage of subscribers to total ICP subscribers. Management
expense was allocated in accordance with the management agreement (Note 2). In
addition, receivables and payables to ICP are presented in the accompanying
financial statements net as amounts due to/from interpartnership. Management
believes these allocations were made on a reasonable basis. Nonetheless, the
financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect what the
financial position and results of operations of the Partnership would have been
as a stand-alone entity.

ACQUISITION BY CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, LLC

     On February 12, 1999, ICP signed a letter of intent to sell all of ICP's
partnership interest to Charter Communications Holdings, LLC ("Charter"). On
April 26, 1999, ICP signed a definitive Purchase and Sales Agreement with
Charter for the sale of the individual partner's interest. The sales transaction
closed on September 13, 1999. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to the transaction and do not reflect any related
adjustments.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, which in
the case of assets constructed, include amounts for material, labor, overhead
and capitalized interest, if applicable. Upon sale or retirement of an asset,
the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and
any gain or loss is recognized.

     Depreciation expense is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:



                                      F-106

                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

FRANCHISE COSTS

     Franchise costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the
remaining lives of the franchises as of the date they were acquired, ranging
from 2 to 10 years. The carrying value is assessed for recoverability by
management based on an analysis of undiscounted expected future cash flows. The
Partnership's management believes that there has been no impairment thereof as
of September 13, 1999.

INCOME TAXES

     No provision for federal or state income taxes is necessary in the
financial statements of the Partnership, because as a partnership, it is not
subject to federal or state income tax as the tax effect of its activities
accrues to the partners.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Customer fees are recorded as revenue in the period the service is
provided. The cost to acquire the rights to the programming generally is
recorded when the product is initially available to be viewed by the customer.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES

     Advertising and promotion expenses are charged to income during the year in
which they are incurred and were not significant for the period shown.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2.  MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

     The Partnership has a management agreement with R & A Management, LLC
("RML"). The management agreement provides that RML shall manage the Partnership
and shall receive annual compensation equal to 5% of gross revenues and an
additional 5% if a defined cash flow level is met. The result of this
transaction included the conveyance of the Rifkin management agreement (the
"Rifkin Agreement") to RML (the "RML Agreement"). Expenses incurred pursuant to
this agreement are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

3.  DEBT

     The Partnership has interpartnership debt with ICP. Borrowings, including
both principal and interest, at September 13, 1999 were $24,003,000 and had an
effective interest rate of 8.68%.

     ICP has a term loan and revolving loan agreement with a bank. The amount of
the term loan is $150,000,000, and requires varying quarterly payments plus
interest commencing September 30, 2001 and continuing through March 31, 2007. On
February 1, 1999, the term loan agreement was amended to increase the loan
amount to $250,000,000. On July 16, 1999, the term loan agreement was amended
again to increase the loan amount to $290,000,000. The interest rate on the term
loan is generally the bank's prime rate plus 0% to 1.50%. The weighted average
effective rate at September 13, 1999 was 8.74%.

     The revolving loan agreement provided for borrowing up to $100,000,000 at
the Company's discretion. At September 13, 1999, $91,000,000 had been drawn
against the $100,000,000 commitment. The revolving credit
                                      F-107

                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

agreement expires on March 31, 2007. The revolver bears an interest rate at the
bank's prime rate plus 0% to 1.50% or LIBOR plus 1.25% to 2.75%. The specific
rate is dependent upon the leverage ratio of ICP, which is recalculated
quarterly. The weighted average effective interest rate at September 13, 1999
was 8.5%.

     The term loan and revolving loan agreement are collateralized by
substantially all assets of ICP and its consolidated entities, including the
Partnership.

4.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Partnership leases certain real and personal property under
noncancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under these
arrangements at September 13, 1999, were as follows:



     Total rent expense for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 was
$77,802, including $43,253 relating to cancelable pole rental agreements.

5.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Partnership has a 401(k) plan for its employees that have been employed
by the Partnership for at least one year. Employees of the Partnership can
contribute up to 15% of their salary, on a before-tax basis, with a maximum 1999
contribution of $10,000 (as set by the Internal Revenue Service). The
Partnership matches participant contributions up to a maximum of 50% of the
first 3% of a participant's salary contributed. All participant contributions
and earnings are fully vested upon contribution and Partnership contributions
and earnings vest 20% per year of employment with the Partnership, becoming
fully vested after five years. The Partnership's matching contributions for the
period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 were $10,524.

6.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Partnership has a number of financial instruments, none of which are
held for trading purposes. The following method and assumptions were used by the
Partnership to estimate the fair values of financial instruments as disclosed
herein:

     Cash, customer accounts receivable, other receivables, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities and customer deposits and prepayments: The carrying value
amount approximates fair value because of the short period to maturity.

     The interest rate on debt is adjusted at least quarterly; therefore, the
carrying value of debt approximates its fair value.

7.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Certain Partnership expenses were paid by Charter and are reflected as
Payables to affiliates in the accompanying financial statements.

                                      F-108

                         INDIANA CABLE ASSOCIATES, LTD.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)

8.  LITIGATION

     The Partnership could possibly be named as defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising from the normal course of business. In all such cases, the
Partnership will vigorously defend itself against the litigation and, where
appropriate, will file counterclaims. Although the eventual outcome of potential
lawsuits cannot be predicted, it is management's opinion that any such lawsuit
will not result in liabilities that would have a material affect on the
Partnership's financial position or results of operations.

                                      F-109


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Partners of
R/N South Florida Cable Management Limited Partnership

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of equity and of cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of R/N South Florida
Cable Management Limited Partnership and its subsidiaries (the "Partnership") at
September 13, 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Partnership's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

     On September 13, 1999, all of the Partnership's interest were sold to
Charter Communications, LLC. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to that transaction and do not reflect any adjustments
related thereto.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 15, 2000

                                      F-110


             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-111


             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-112


             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-113


             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                      F-114


             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNT POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND ORGANIZATION

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
R/N South Florida Cable Management Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") and
its substantially wholly owned subsidiary, Rifkin/ Narragansett South Florida
CATV Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"). Each partnership is a
Florida Limited Partnership. The Partnership was originally organized in 1988
for the purpose of being the general partner to the Operating Partnership which
is engaged in the installation, ownership, operation and management of cable
television systems in Florida.

ACQUISITION BY INTERLINK COMMUNICATIONS PARTNERS, LLLP AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Effective December 31, 1998, Interlink Communications Partners, LLLP
("ICP") acquired all of the Partnership's limited partner interest, and agreed
to purchase all of the Partnership's interest for $74.2 million. This
transaction was accounted for as a purchase; as such, assets and liabilities
were written up to their fair value, resulting in an increase to property, plant
and equipment and franchise costs of $5.0 million $77.1 million, respectively.

     Effective July 1, 1999, ICP completed the purchase of the remaining general
partner interest in the Partnership and the Partnership was merged into ICP and
ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. The Partnership's financial
statements subsequent to that date represent a divisional carve-out from ICP.
These financial statements include all the direct costs of operating its
business; however, certain assets, liabilities and costs not specifically
related to the Partnership's activities were allocated and reflected in the
financial position as of September 13, 1999, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999.
Allocations from ICP include amounts for debt, interest expense and management
expense. Both debt and interest expense were allocated pro rata based on the
Partnership's percentage of subscribers to total ICP subscribers. Management
expense was allocated in accordance with the management agreement (Note 2). In
addition, receivables and payables to ICP are presented in the accompanying
financial statements net as amounts due to/from interpartnership. Management
believes these allocations were made on a reasonable basis. Nonetheless, the
financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect what the
financial position and results of operations of the Partnership would have been
as a stand-alone entity.

ACQUISITION BY CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS, LLC

     On February 12, 1999, ICP signed a letter of intent to sell all of ICP's
partnership interest to Charter Communications Holdings, LLC ("Charter"). On
April 26, 1999, ICP signed a definitive Purchase and Sales Agreement with
Charter for the sale of the individual partner's interest. The sales transaction
closed on September 13, 1999. These financial statements represent the
Partnership just prior to the transaction and do not reflect any related
adjustments.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, which in
the case of assets constructed, include amounts for material, labor, overhead
and capitalized interest, if applicable. Upon sale or retirement of an asset,
the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and
any gain or loss is recognized.

                                      F-115

             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Depreciation expense is calculated using the straight-line method of
depreciation over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:



FRANCHISE COSTS

     Franchise costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the
remaining lives of the franchises as of the date they were acquired, ranging
from 2 to 10 years. The carrying value is assessed for recoverability by
management based on an analysis of undiscounted expected future cash flows. The
Partnership's management believes that there has been no impairment thereof as
of September 13, 1999.

INCOME TAXES

     No provision for federal or state income taxes is necessary in the
financial statements of the Partnership, because as a partnership, it is not
subject to federal or state income tax as the tax effect of its activities
accrues to the partners.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Customer fees are recorded as revenue in the period the service is
provided. The cost to acquire the rights to the programming generally is
recorded when the product is initially available to be viewed by the customer.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES

     Advertising and promotion expenses are charged to income during the year in
which they are incurred and were not significant for the period shown.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

     The Partnership has a management agreement with R & A Management, LLC
("RML"). The management agreement provides that RML shall manage the Operating
Partnership and shall be entitled to annual compensation of 4% of gross
revenues. The result of this transaction included the conveyance of the Rifkin
management agreement (the "Rifkin Agreement") to RML (the "RML Agreement").
Expenses incurred pursuant to this agreement are disclosed in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

3. DEBT

     The Partnership has an interpartnership debt with ICP. Borrowings,
including both principal and interest, at September 13, 1999 were $60,960,000
and had an effective interest rate of 8.68%.

     ICP has a term loan and revolving loan agreement with a bank. The amount of
the term loan is $150,000,000, and requires varying quarterly payments plus
interest commencing September 30, 2001 and continuing through March 31, 2007. On
February 1, 1999, the term loan agreement was amended to increase

                                      F-116

             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the loan amount to $250,000,000. On July 16, 1999, the term loan agreement was
amended again to increase the loan amount to $290,000,000. The interest rate on
the term loan is generally the bank's prime rate plus 0% to 1.50%. The weighted
average effective rate at September 13, 1999 was 8.74%.

     The revolving loan agreement provided for borrowing up to $100,000,000 at
the Company's discretion. At September 13, 1999, $91,000,000 had been drawn
against the $100,000,000 commitment. The revolving credit agreement expires on
March 31, 2007. The revolver bears an interest rate at the bank's prime rate
plus 0% to 1.50% or LIBOR plus 1.25% to 2.75%. The specific rate is dependent
upon the leverage ratio of ICP, which is recalculated quarterly. The weighted
average effective interest rate at September 13, 1999 was 8.5%.

     The term loan and revolving loan agreement are collateralized by
substantially all assets of ICP and its consolidated entities, including the
Partnership.

4. LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Partnership leases certain real and personal property under
noncancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under these
arrangements at September 13, 1999, were as follows:



     Total rent expense for the period January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 was
$187,831, including $68,806 relating to cancelable pole rental agreements.

5. RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Operating Partnership has a 401(k) plan for its employees that have
been employed by the Operating Partnership for at least one year. Employees of
the Operating Partnership can contribute up to 15% of their salary, on a
before-tax basis, with a maximum 1999 contribution of $10,000 (as set by the
Internal Revenue Service). The Operating Partnership matches participant
contributions up to a maximum of 50% of the first 3% of a participant's salary
contributed. All participant contributions and earnings are fully vested upon
contribution and Operating Partnership contributions and earnings vest 20% per
year of employment with the Operating Partnership, becoming fully vested after
five years. The Operating Partnership's matching contributions for the period
January 1, 1999 to September 13, 1999 were $19,721.

6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Partnership has a number of financial instruments, none of which are
held for trading purposes. The following method and assumptions were used by the
Partnership to estimate the fair values of financial instruments as disclosed
herein:

     Cash, customer accounts receivable, other receivables, accounts payable and
accrued liabilities and customer deposits and prepayments: The carrying value
amount approximates fair value because of the short period to maturity.

     The interest rate on debt is adjusted at least quarterly; therefore, the
carrying value of debt approximates its fair value.

                                      F-117

             R/N SOUTH FLORIDA CABLE MANAGEMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7. LITIGATION

     The Partnership could possibly be named as defendant in various actions and
proceedings arising from the normal course of business. In all such cases, the
Partnership will vigorously defend itself against the litigation and, where
appropriate, will file counterclaims. Although the eventual outcome of potential
lawsuits cannot be predicted, it is management's opinion that any such lawsuit
will not result in liabilities that would have a material affect on the
Partnership's financial position or results of operations.

                                      F-118


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Partners of InterMedia Partners
and InterMedia Capital Partners IV, L.P.

     In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheets and the related
combined statements of operations, of changes in equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of InterMedia
Cable Systems (comprised of components of InterMedia Partners and InterMedia
Capital Partners IV, L.P.) at September 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for the nine-months ended
September 30, 1999 and for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of
InterMedia Partners and InterMedia Capital Partners IV, L.P.; our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

                                                  /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

San Francisco, California
January 6, 2000

                                      F-119


                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

                            COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.

                                      F-120


                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

                       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.

                                      F-121


                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

                    COMBINED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.

                                      F-122


                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

                       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



See accompanying notes to combined financial statements.

                                      F-123


                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

THE CHARTER TRANSACTIONS

     InterMedia Partners, a California limited partnership ("IP-I"), and
InterMedia Capital Partners IV, L.P., a California limited partnership,
("ICP-IV", together with IP-I, "InterMedia") are affiliated through common
control and management. Robin Media Group, Inc. , a Nevada corporation, ("RMG")
is a majority owned subsidiary of ICP-IV. On April 20, 1999 InterMedia and
certain of its affiliates entered into agreements (the "Agreements") with
affiliates of Charter Communications, Inc. ("Charter") to sell and exchange
certain of their cable television systems ("the Charter Transactions"). The
Charter Transactions closed on October 1, 1999.

     Specifically, ICP-IV and its affiliates sold certain of their cable
television systems in Tennessee and Gainesville, Georgia through a combination
of asset sales and the sale of their equity interests in RMG, and exchanged
their systems in and around Greenville and Spartanburg, South Carolina for
Charter systems located in Indiana, Kentucky, Utah and Montana. Immediately upon
Charter's acquisition of RMG, IP-I exchanged its cable television systems in
Athens, Georgia, Asheville and Marion, North Carolina and Cleveland, Tennessee
for RMG's cable television systems located in middle Tennessee.

     The cable systems retained by Charter upon consummation of the Charter
Transactions, together with RMG, are referred to as the "InterMedia Cable
Systems," or the "Systems."

PRESENTATION

     The accompanying combined financial statements represent the financial
position of the InterMedia Cable Systems as of September 30, 1999 and December
31, 1998 and 1997 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the years ended December 31, 1998
and 1997. The Systems being sold or exchanged do not individually or
collectively comprise a separate legal entity. Accordingly, the combined
financial statements have been carved-out from the historical accounting records
of InterMedia.

CARVE-OUT METHODOLOGY

     Throughout the periods covered by the combined financial statements, the
individual cable systems were operated and accounted for separately. However,
the Charter Transactions exclude certain systems (the "Excluded Systems") which
were operated as part of the Marion, North Carolina and western Tennessee
systems throughout the periods presented in the combined financial statements.
For purposes of carving out and excluding the results of operations and
financial position of the Excluded Systems from the combined financial
statements, management has estimated the revenues, expenses, assets and
liabilities associated with each Excluded System based on the ratio of each
Excluded System's basic subscribers to the total basic subscribers served by the
Marion, North Carolina and western Tennessee systems, respectively. Management
believes the basis used for these allocations is reasonable. The Systems'
results of operations are not necessarily indicative of future operating results
or the results that would have occurred if the Systems were a separate legal
entity.

     Management and consulting fees represent an allocation of management fees
charged to IP-I and ICP-IV by InterMedia Capital Management, a California
limited partnership ("ICM") and InterMedia Management, Inc. ("IMI"),
respectively. ICM is a limited partner of IP-I. IMI is the managing member of
each of the general partners of IP-I and ICP-IV. These fees are charged at a
fixed amount per annum and

                                      F-124

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

have been allocated to the Systems based upon the allocated contributed capital
of the individual systems as compared to the total contributed capital of
InterMedia's subsidiaries.

     As more fully described in Note 9 -- "Related Party Transactions," certain
administrative services are also provided by IMI and are charged to all
affiliates based on relative basic subscriber percentages.

CASH AND INTERCOMPANY ACCOUNTS

     Under InterMedia's centralized cash management system, cash requirements of
its individual operating units were generally provided directly by InterMedia
and the cash generated or used by the Systems was transferred to/from
InterMedia, as appropriate, through intercompany accounts. The intercompany
account balances between InterMedia and the individual operating units, except
RMG's intercompany note payable to InterMedia Partners IV, L.P. ("IP-IV"), as
described in Note 7 -- "Note Payable to InterMedia Partners IV, L.P.," are not
intended to be settled. Accordingly, the balances, other than RMG's note payable
to IP-IV, are included in equity and all net cash flows from operations,
investing activities and financing activities have been included in the Systems'
net (distributions) contributions to/from parent in the combined statements of
cash flows.

     IP-I and ICP-IV or its subsidiaries maintain all external debt to fund and
manage InterMedia's operations on a centralized basis. The combined financial
statements present only the debt and related interest expense of RMG, which was
assumed and repaid by Charter pursuant to the Charter Transactions. See Note
7 -- "Note Payable to InterMedia Partners IV, L.P." Debt, unamortized debt issue
costs and interest expense related to the financing of the cable systems not
owned by RMG have not been allocated to the InterMedia Cable Systems. As such,
the level of debt, unamortized debt issue costs and related interest expense
presented in the combined financial statements are not representative of the
debt that would be required or interest expense incurred if InterMedia Cable
Systems were a separate legal entity.

2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Cable television service revenue is recognized in the period in which
services are provided to customers. Deferred revenue generally represents
revenue billed in advance and deferred until cable service is provided.
Installation fees are recognized immediately into revenue to the extent of
direct selling costs incurred. Any fees in excess of such costs are deferred and
amortized into income over the period that customers are expected to remain
connected to the cable television system.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Additions to property and equipment, including new customer installations,
are recorded at cost. Self-constructed fixed assets include materials, labor and
overhead. Costs of disconnecting and reconnecting cable service are expensed.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.
Expenditures for major renewals and improvements are capitalized. Capitalized
fixed assets are written down to recoverable values whenever recoverability
through operations or sale of the systems becomes doubtful. Gains and losses on
disposal of property and equipment are included in the Systems' statements of
operations when the assets are sold or retired from service.

                                      F-125

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

     Depreciation is computed using the double-declining balance method over the
following estimated useful lives:



INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     The Systems have franchise rights to operate cable television systems in
various towns and political subdivisions. Franchise rights are being amortized
over the lesser of the remaining franchise lives or the base ten and twelve-year
terms of IP-I and ICP-IV, respectively. The remaining lives of the franchises
range from one to seventeen years.

     Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value of
net tangible and franchise assets acquired and liabilities assumed and is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over the base ten or twelve-year term of IP-I
and ICP-IV, respectively.

     Capitalized intangibles are written down to recoverable values whenever
recoverability through operations or sale of the systems becomes doubtful. Each
year, the Systems evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of their
intangible assets by assessing whether the projected cash flows, including
projected cash flows from sale of the systems, is sufficient to recover the
unamortized costs of these assets.

INCOME TAXES

     Income taxes reported in InterMedia Cable Systems' combined financial
statements represent the tax effects of RMG's results of operations. RMG as a
corporation is the only entity within InterMedia Cable Systems which reports a
provision/benefit for income taxes. No provision or benefit for income taxes is
reported by any of the other cable systems within the InterMedia Cable Systems
structure because these systems are currently owned by various partnerships,
and, as such, the tax effects of these cable systems' results of operations
accrue to the partners.

     RMG accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability approach which
requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the tax
consequences of temporary differences by applying enacted statutory tax rates
applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts and the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities.

USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

                                      F-126

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying value of receivables, payables, deferred revenue and accrued
liabilities approximates fair value due to their short maturity.

3.  SALE AND EXCHANGE OF CABLE PROPERTIES

SALE

     On December 5, 1997, RMG sold its cable television assets serving
approximately 7,400 (unaudited) basic subscribers in and around Royston and
Toccoa, Georgia. The sale resulted in a gain, calculated as follows:



EXCHANGE

     On December 31, 1998, certain of the Systems' cable television assets
located in and around western and eastern Tennessee ("Exchanged Assets"),
serving approximately 10,600 (unaudited) basic subscribers, plus cash of $398
were exchanged for other cable television assets located in and around western
and eastern Tennessee, serving approximately 10,000 (unaudited) basic
subscribers.

     The cable television assets received have been recorded at fair market
value, allocated as follows:



     The exchange resulted in a gain of $26,218 calculated as the difference
between the fair value of the assets received and the net book value of the
Exchanged Assets less cash paid of $398.

4.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets consist of the following:



                                      F-127

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

5.  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consist of the following:



6.  ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consist of the following:



7.  NOTE PAYABLE TO INTERMEDIA PARTNERS IV, L.P.

     RMG's note payable to IP-IV consists of the following:



     RMG's debt is outstanding under an intercompany revolving credit facility
executed with IP-IV. The revolving credit facility currently provides for
$1,200,000 of available credit.

     RMG's intercompany revolving credit facility requires repayment of the
outstanding principal and accrued interest on the earlier of (i) December 31,
2006, or (ii) acceleration of any of IP-IV's obligations to repay under its bank
debt outstanding under its revolving credit facility ("IP-IV Revolving Credit
Facility")

                                      F-128

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

and term loan agreement ("IP-IV Term Loan", together with the IP-IV Revolving
Credit Facility, the "IP-IV Bank Facility") dated July 30, 1996.

     On October 1, 1999, Charter assumed and repaid RMG's intercompany revolving
credit facility pursuant to the Charter Transactions.

     Interest rates under RMG's intercompany revolving credit facility are
calculated monthly and are referenced to those made available under the IP-IV
Bank Facility. Interest rates ranged from 6.21% to 6.96% during the nine months
ended September 30, 1999.

     Advances under the IP-IV Bank Facility are available under interest rate
options related to the base rate of the administrative agent for the IP-IV Bank
Facility ("ABR") or LIBOR. Interest rates on borrowings under the IP-IV Term
Loan vary from LIBOR plus 1.75% to LIBOR plus 2.00% or ABR plus 0.50% to ABR
plus 0.75% based on IP-IV's ratio of debt outstanding to annualized quarterly
operating cash flow ("Senior Debt Ratio"). Interest rates on borrowings under
the IP-IV Revolving Credit Facility also vary from LIBOR plus 0.625% to LIBOR
plus 1.50% or ABR to ABR plus 0.25% based on IP-IV's Senior Debt Ratio. The
IP-IV Bank Facility requires quarterly payment of fees on the unused portion of
the IP-IV Revolving Credit Facility of 0.375% per annum when the Senior Debt
Ratio is greater than 4.0:1.0 and at 0.25% when the Senior Debt Ratio is less
than or equal to 4.0:1.0.

     The terms and conditions of RMG's intercompany debt agreement are not
necessarily indicative of the terms and conditions which would be available if
the Systems were a separate legal entity.

8.  MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SHARES

     RMG has Redeemable Preferred Stock outstanding at September 30, 1999 and
December 31, 1998, which has an annual dividend of 10.0% and participates in any
dividends paid on the common stock at 10.0% of the dividend per share paid on
the common stock. The Redeemable Preferred Stock bears a liquidation preference
of $12,000 plus any accrued but unpaid dividends at the time of liquidation and
is mandatorily redeemable on September 30, 2006 at the liquidation preference
amount. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreements, upon consummation of the
Charter Transactions, Charter redeemed RMG's Redeemable Preferred Stock at the
liquidation preference amount.

9.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     ICM and IMI provide certain management services to IP-I and ICP-IV,
respectively, for per annum fixed fees, of which 20% per annum is deferred and
payable in each following year in order to support InterMedia's debt. Management
fees charged to InterMedia for the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the
years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 amounted to $4,059, $5,410 and $6,395,
respectively, of which $2,356, $3,147 and $2,870, respectively, has been charged
to the Systems.

     IMI has entered into agreements with both IP-I and ICP-IV to provide
accounting and administrative services at cost. Under the terms of the
agreements, the expenses associated with rendering these services are charged to
the Systems and other affiliates based upon relative basic subscriber
percentages. Management believes this method to be reflective of the actual
cost. IMI also pays on behalf of the Systems and other affiliates "pass through
costs" that are specifically identifiable to the Systems and other affiliates.
These include, but are not limited to programming fees and copyright fees.
During the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997, IMI administrative fees charged to the Systems totaled $3,093,
$3,657 and $4,153, respectively. Receivables from affiliates at September 30,
1999 and

                                      F-129

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

December 31, 1998 include $5,873 and $52, respectively, of advances to IMI, net
of administrative fees charged by IMI and operating expenses paid by IMI on
behalf of the Systems.

     IP-I is majority-owned, and ICP-IV is owned in part, by AT&T Broadband &
Internet Services ("AT&TBIS"), formerly Tele-Communications, Inc. As affiliates
of AT&TBIS, IP-I and ICP-IV are able to purchase programming services from a
subsidiary of AT&TBIS. Management believes that the overall programming rates
made available through this relationship are lower than the Systems could obtain
separately. Such volume rates may not continue to be available in the future
should AT&TBIS's ownership interest in InterMedia significantly decrease.
Program fees charged by the AT&TBIS subsidiary to the Systems for the nine
months ended September 30, 1999 and the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997
amounted to $26,352, $30,884 and $26,815, respectively. Payables to affiliates
include programming fees payable to the AT&TBIS subsidiary of $2,918 at December
31, 1998. There were no programming fees payable to the AT&TBIS subsidiary at
September 30, 1999.

     On January 1, 1998 an affiliate of AT&TBIS entered into agreements with
InterMedia to manage the Systems' advertising business and related services for
an annual fixed fees per advertising sales subscriber as defined by the
agreements. In addition to the annual fixed fee, AT&TBIS is entitled to varying
percentage shares of the incremental growth in annual cash flows from
advertising sales above specified targets. Management fees charged by the
AT&TBIS subsidiary for the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the year
ended December 31, 1998 amounted to $227 and $292, respectively. Receivables
from affiliates at September 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998 include $2,034 and
$3,437, respectively, of receivable from AT&TBIS for advertising sales.

     As part of its normal course of business the Systems are involved in
transactions with affiliates of InterMedia which own and operate cable
television systems. Such transactions include purchases and sales, at cost, of
inventories used in construction of cable plant. Receivables from affiliates at
September 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998 include $59 and $2,134, respectively,
of receivables from affiliated systems. Payables to affiliates at September 30,
1999 and December 31, 1998 include $2,265 and $208, respectively, of payables to
affiliated systems.

10.  CABLE TELEVISION REGULATION

     Cable television legislation and regulatory proposals under consideration
from time to time by Congress and various federal agencies have in the past, and
may in the future, materially affect the Systems and the cable television
industry.

     The cable industry is currently regulated at the federal and local levels
under the Cable Act of 1984, the Cable Act of 1992 ("the 1992 Act"), the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act") and regulations issued by the
Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") in response to the 1992 Act. FCC
regulations govern the determination of rates charged for basic, expanded basic
and certain ancillary services, and cover a number of other areas including
customer services and technical performance standards, the required transmission
of certain local broadcast stations and the requirement to negotiate
retransmission consent from major network and certain local television stations.
Among other provisions, the 1996 Act eliminated rate regulation on the expanded
basic tier effective March 31, 1999.

     Current regulations issued in conjunction with the 1992 Act empower the FCC
and/or local franchise authorities to order reductions of existing rates which
exceed the maximum permitted levels and to require refunds measured from the
date a complaint is filed in some circumstances or retroactively for up to one
year in other circumstances. Management believes it has made a fair
interpretation of the 1992 Act and related

                                      F-130

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FCC regulations in determining regulated cable television rates and other fees
based on the information currently available. However, complaints have been
filed with the FCC on rates for certain franchises and certain local franchise
authorities have challenged existing and prior rates. Further complaints and
challenges could be forthcoming, some of which could apply to revenue recorded
in 1999 and prior years. Management believes that the effect, if any, of these
complaints and challenges will not be material to the Systems' financial
position or results of operations.

     Many aspects of regulation at the federal and local levels are currently
the subject of judicial review and administrative proceedings. In addition, the
FCC is required to conduct rulemaking proceedings to implement various
provisions of the 1996 Act. It is not possible at this time to predict the
ultimate outcome of these reviews or proceedings or their effect on the Systems.

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Systems are committed to provide cable television services under
franchise agreements with remaining terms of up to seventeen years. Franchise
fees of up to 5% of gross revenues are payable under these agreements.

     Current FCC regulations require that cable television operators obtain
permission to retransmit major network and certain local television station
signals. The Systems have entered into long-term retransmission agreements with
all applicable stations in exchange for in-kind and/or other consideration.

     InterMedia has been named in purported and certified class actions in
various jurisdictions concerning late fee charges and practices. Certain cable
systems owned by InterMedia charge late fees to customers who do not pay their
cable bills on time. These late fee cases challenge the amount of the late fees
and the practices under which they are imposed. The plaintiffs raise claims
under state consumer protection statutes, other state statutes and common law.
The plaintiffs generally allege that the late fees charged by InterMedia's cable
systems, including the Systems in the States of Tennessee, South Carolina and
Georgia are not reasonably related to the costs incurred by the cable systems as
a result of the late payment. The plaintiffs seek to require cable systems to
reduce their late fees on a prospective basis and to provide compensation for
alleged excessive late fee charges for past periods. These cases are either at
the early stages of the litigation process or are subject to a case management
order that sets forth a process leading to mediation. Based upon the facts
available management believes that, although no assurances can be given as to
the outcome of these actions, the ultimate disposition of these matters should
not have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition of the Systems.

     In the Spring of 1999 the Tennessee Department of Revenue ("TDOR") proposed
legislation that was passed by the Tennessee State Legislature which replaced
the former Amusement Tax with a new sales tax on all cable service revenues in
excess of fifteen dollars per month effective September 1, 1999. The new tax is
computed at a rate approximately equal to the former effective tax rate.

     Prior to the passage of this legislation, the TDOR suggested that under its
interpretation of the former legislation it could assess, for prior periods up
to three years, additional taxes on expanded basic service revenue. Management
believes that based on subsequent correspondence with the TDOR that the TDOR
will not pursue additional taxes under the former amusement tax legislation.

     The Systems are subject to other claims and litigation in the ordinary
course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate outcome of any
existing litigation or other claims will not have a material effect on the
Systems' financial position or results of operations.

                                      F-131

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

     The Systems have entered into pole rental agreements and lease certain of
its facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. Minimum
rental commitments at September 30, 1999 for the next five years and thereafter
under non-cancelable operating leases related to the Systems are as follows:



     Rent expense, including pole rental agreements, for the nine months ended
September 30, 1999 and for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 was
$2,243, $2,817 and $2,828, respectively.

12.  INCOME TAXES

     Income tax benefit (expense) consists of the following:



     Deferred income taxes relate to temporary differences as follows:



     At December 31, 1998, RMG had net operating loss carryforwards for federal
income tax purposes aggregating $92,785, which expire through 2018. RMG is a
loss corporation as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Therefore, if certain substantial changes in RMG's ownership should occur, there
could be a significant annual limitation on the amount of loss carryforwards
which can be utilized.

     InterMedia's management has not established a valuation allowance to reduce
the deferred tax assets related to RMG's unexpired net operating loss
carryforwards. Due to an excess of appreciated asset value over

                                      F-132

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

the tax basis of RMG's net assets, management believes it is more likely than
not that the deferred tax assets related to unexpired net operating losses will
be realized.

     A reconciliation of the tax benefit (expense) computed at the statutory
federal rate and the benefit (expense) reported in the accompanying combined
statements of operations is as follows:



13.  CHANNEL LAUNCH REVENUE

     During 1997 and 1998, the Systems were credited with amounts representing
their share of payments received or to be received by InterMedia from certain
programmers to launch and promote their new channels. Of the total amount
credited, the Systems recognized advertising revenue of $434, $586 and $1,182
during the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively, for advertisements provided by the Systems to
promote the new channels. The remaining amounts credited to the Systems are
being amortized over the respective terms of the program agreements which range
between five to ten years. For the nine months ended September 30, 1999 and the
years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Systems amortized and recorded as
other service revenues $721, $956 and $894, respectively. Also, during 1998 the
Systems recorded a receivable from a programmer, of which $853 and $1,791
remained outstanding at September 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998, respectively,
for the launch and promotion of its new channel.

14.  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

     In connection with RMG's sale of its cable television assets located in
Royston and Toccoa, Georgia in December 1997, as described in Note 3 -- "Sale
and Exchange of Cable Properties," net cash proceeds received were as follows:



     In connection with the exchange of certain cable assets in and around
western and eastern Tennessee on December 31, 1998, as described in Note 3, the
Systems paid cash of $398.

     In December 1998, IP-IV contributed its 4.99% partner interest in a limited
partnership to RMG. The book value of the investment at the time of the
contribution was $1,147.

     Total accretion on RMG's Redeemable Preferred Stock for the nine months
ended September 30, 1999 and for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997
amounted to $750, $945 and $882, respectively.

                                      F-133

                            INTERMEDIA CABLE SYSTEMS
(COMPRISED OF COMPONENTS OF INTERMEDIA PARTNERS AND INTERMEDIA CAPITAL PARTNERS
                                   IV, L.P.)

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

15.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Systems participate in the InterMedia Partners Tax Deferred Savings
Plan which covers all full-time employees who have completed at least six months
of employment. The plan provides for a base employee contribution of 1% and a
maximum of 15% of compensation. The Systems' matching contributions under the
plan are at the rate of 50% of the employee's contribution, up to a maximum of
5% of compensation.

                                      F-134


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Audit Committee
  CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

     We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of Fanch Cable
Systems Sold to Charter Communications, Inc. (comprised of components of
TWFanch-one Co., components of TWFanch-two Co., Mark Twain Cablevision, North
Texas Cablevision LTD., Post Cablevision of Texas L.P., Spring Green
Communications L.P., Fanch Narragansett CSI L.P., Cable Systems Inc., ARH, and
Tioga), as of November 11, 1999 and December 31, 1998, and the related combined
statements of operations, net assets and cash flows for the period from January
1, 1999 through November 11, 1999 and for the years ended December 31, 1998 and
1997. These financial statements are the responsibility of Fanch Communications,
Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the financial
statements of North Texas Cablevision, LTD., Spring Green Communications L.P.,
Cable Systems Inc. and Fanch Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership, which
statements reflect total assets of $18,289,788 as of December 31, 1998 and total
revenues of $14,562,704 and $11,906,101 for the years ended December 31, 1998
and 1997. Those statements were audited by other auditors whose reports have
been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to data included
for North Texas Cablevision LTD., Spring Green Communications L.P., Cable
Systems Inc. and Fanch Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership, is based solely on
the reports of the other auditors.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the combined financial position of Fanch Cable Systems Sold to Charter
Communications, Inc. at November 11, 1999 and December 31, 1998, and the
combined results of its operations and its cash flows for the period from
January 1, 1999 through November 11, 1999 and the years ended December 31, 1998
and 1997 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States.

                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Denver, Colorado
January 28, 2000

                                      F-135


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Shareholders
  CABLE SYSTEMS, INC.

The Partners
  FANCH NARRAGANSETT CSI LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

     We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Cable Systems, Inc. and
Fanch Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the related statements of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     The accompanying combined financial statements have been prepared pursuant
to Section 5.04(a) of the Loan Agreement between Cable Systems, Inc., Fanch
Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership and Fleet National Bank. Generally accepted
accounting principles do not recognize consolidated financial statements when a
less than 50% ownership ratio exists between two companies. As a result, our
opinion is restricted to the individual company statements shown.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Cable Systems, Inc. and
Fanch Narragansett CSI Limited Partnership at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                          /s/ SHIELDS & CO.

March 9, 1999
Englewood, Colorado

                                      F-136


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Partners
  NORTH TEXAS CABLEVISION, LTD.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of North Texas
Cablevision, Ltd. as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and partners' deficit and cash flows for the years then
ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Partnership's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of North Texas Cablevision,
Ltd. at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

                                          /s/ SHIELDS & CO.

March 9, 1999
Englewood, Colorado

                                      F-137


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Partners
  SPRING GREEN COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

     We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Spring Green
Communications, L.P. as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related
statements of operations and partners' capital and cash flows from inception
November 3, 1997, through December 31, 1998. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Partnership's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Spring Green Communications,
L.P. at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of its operations and its
cash flows for the periods ended December 31, 1997, and 1998 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

                                          /s/ SHIELDS & CO.

March 10, 1999
Englewood, Colorado

                                      F-138


            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
                            COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS



See accompanying notes.

                                      F-139


            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
                       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



See accompanying notes.

                                      F-140


            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

                       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF NET ASSETS



See accompanying notes.

                                      F-141


            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

                       COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying notes.

                                      F-142


            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

                     NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               NOVEMBER 11, 1999

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

ACQUISITION BY CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The Fanch Cable Systems Sold to Charter Communications, Inc. are comprised
of the following entities: components of TWFanch-one Co., components of
TWFanch-two Co., Mark Twain Cablevision, North Texas Cablevision LTD., Post
Cablevision of Texas L.P., Spring Green Communications L.P., Fanch Narragansett
CSI L.P., Cable Systems Inc., ARH, and Tioga (the "Combined Systems"). The
Combined Systems were managed by Fanch Communications, Inc. (the "Management
Company").

     Pursuant to a purchase agreement, dated May 12, 1999 between certain
partners ("Partners") of the Combined Systems and Charter Communications, Inc.
("Charter"), the Partners of the Combined Systems entered into a distribution
agreement whereby the Partners will distribute and/or sell certain of their
cable systems to certain of their respective Partners. These Partners will then
sell the Combined Systems through a combination of asset sales and the sale of
equity and partnership interests to Charter.

     Accordingly, these combined financial statements of the Combined Systems
reflect the "carved out" financial position, results of operations, cash flows
and changes in net assets of the operations of the Combined Systems as if they
had been operating as a separate company. For purposes of determining the
financial statement amounts of the Combined Systems, management excluded certain
systems (the "Excluded Systems"). In order to exclude the results of operations
and financial position of the Excluded Systems from the combined financial
statements, management has estimated certain revenues, expenses, assets and
liabilities that are not specifically identified to systems based on the ratio
of each Excluded System's basic subscribers to the total basic subscribers
served by the respective partnerships. Management believes the basis used for
these allocations is reasonable. The Combined Systems' results of operations are
not necessarily indicative of future operating results or the results that would
have occurred if the Combined Systems were a separate legal entity.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

     The Combined Systems, operating in various states throughout the United
States, are principally engaged in operating cable television systems and
related activities under non-exclusive franchise agreements.

PRINCIPLES OF COMBINATION

     The accompanying combined financial statements include the accounts of the
Combined Systems, as if the Combined Systems were a single company. All material
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

CASH, INTERCOMPANY ACCOUNTS AND DEBT

     Under the Combined Systems' centralized cash management system, the cash
requirements of its individual operating units were generally subsidized by the
Management Company and the cash generated or used by the individual operating
units was transferred to/from the Management Company, as appropriate, through
the use of intercompany accounts. The resulting intercompany account balances
are included in net assets and all the net cash generated from (used in)
operations, investing activities and financing activities has been included in
the Combined Systems' net contributions by (payments to) the Management Company
in the combined statements of cash flows. The Management Company maintains
external debt to fund and manage operations on a centralized basis. Debt,
unamortized loan costs and interest expense of the Management Company have not
been allocated to the Combined Systems. As such, the debt, unamortized

                                      F-143

            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (CONTINUED)
loan costs, and related interest are not representative of the debt that would
be required or interest expense incurred if the Combined Systems were a separate
legal entity.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     The Combined Systems record additions to property, plant and equipment at
cost, which in the case of assets constructed includes amounts for material,
labor and overhead. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

     For financial reporting purposes, the Combined Systems use the
straight-line method of depreciation over the estimated useful lives of the
assets as follows:



INCOME TAXES

     The Combined Systems pay an immaterial amount of income taxes. Taxes are
paid for Cable Systems, Inc., Hornell, ARH, Tioga, and systems operating in the
State of Michigan. The majority of the Combined Systems are various partnerships
and, as such, the tax effects of the Combined Systems' results of operations
accrue to the partners.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
disclosures made in the accompanying notes to the financial statements. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Combined Systems recognize revenue when services have been delivered.
Revenues on long-term contracts are recognized over the term of the contract
using the straight-line method.

INTANGIBLES

     Intangibles are recorded at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are as follows:



     Amortization expense was $38,229,923, $25,955,253, and $44,595,992 for the
period from January 1, 1999 to November 11, 1999 and for the years ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Certain of the Combined Systems
changed the estimated useful life of goodwill from 7 and 10 years in 1997 to 20
years

                                      F-144

            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
effective January 1, 1998 to better match the amortization period to anticipated
economic lives of the franchises and to better reflect industry practice. This
change in estimate resulted in an increase in net income of approximately $20
million for the year ended December 31, 1998.

3. DISPOSAL OF ASSETS

     During the periods presented, various upgrades were performed on certain
plant locations. The cost and accumulated depreciation applicable to the plant
replaced has been estimated and recorded as a loss on disposal, which is
summarized as follows:



4. PURCHASE AND SALE OF SYSTEMS

     On March 30, 1997, the Combined Systems acquired cable television systems,
including plant and franchise and business licenses, serving communities in the
states of Pennsylvania and Virginia. The purchase price was $1.4 million, of
which $765,000 was allocated to property, plant and equipment and $635,000 was
allocated to intangible assets.

     Concurrent with the purchase of the systems in Pennsylvania on March 30,
1997, the Combined Systems sold certain of these assets, including plant and
franchise and business licenses, for $340,000. No gain or loss on this
transaction was recorded.

     On June 30, 1997, the Combined Systems acquired cable television systems,
including plant and franchise and business licenses, serving communities in the
State of Indiana. The purchase price was $6,345,408, of which $2,822,260 was
allocated to property, plant and equipment and $3,523,148 was allocated to
intangible assets.

     On November 3, 1997, the Combined Systems acquired substantially all of the
assets, including franchise and business licenses, for cable systems serving
various communities in Wisconsin. The purchase price was $8.7 million, of which
$3.9 million was allocated to property, plant and equipment and $4.8 million was
allocated to intangible assets.

     On June 12, 1998, the Combined Systems entered into an agreement to acquire
cable television systems, including plant and franchise and business licenses,
serving communities in the State of Michigan. The purchase price was $42
million, subject to purchase price adjustments. In connection with the
agreement, the Combined Systems received an additional $8.76 million in capital
contributions. The agreement was completed and the assets were transferred to
the Combined Systems on February 1, 1999. The Combined Systems recorded
approximately $11.7 million in property, plant and equipment and approximately
$30.3 million in intangible assets.

                                      F-145

            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. PURCHASE AND SALE OF SYSTEMS (CONTINUED)
     On July 8, 1998, the Combined Systems entered into an Asset Purchase
Agreement to acquire cable television systems, including plant and franchise and
business licenses, serving communities in the states of Maryland, Ohio and West
Virginia. The purchase price was $248 million, subject to purchase price
adjustments. The transaction was completed and the assets were transferred to
the Combined Systems on February 24, 1999. The Combined Systems recorded
approximately $39 million to property, plant and equipment and approximately
$209 million to intangible assets.

     On January 15, 1999, the Combined Systems entered into an agreement to
acquire cable television systems, including plant and franchise and business
licenses, serving communities in the State of Michigan from a related party. The
purchase price was $70 million, subject to purchase price adjustments. The
agreement was completed and the assets were transferred to the Combined Systems
on March 31, 1999. In connection with the agreement, the Combined Systems
received an additional $25 million in capital contributions. The Combined
Systems recorded approximately $14.4 million to property, plant and equipment
and approximately $55.6 million to intangible assets.

     On May 12, 1999, the Combined Systems entered into an agreement to acquire
the stock of ARH, Ltd. ARH, Ltd. is engaged in the business of owning and
operating cable television systems in Texas and West Virginia. The purchase
price was $50 million subject to purchase price adjustments. The transaction was
completed and the assets were transferred to the Combined Systems on June 22,
1999. The Combined Systems recorded approximately $3.9 million to property,
plant and equipment and approximately $46.1 million to intangible assets.

     Unaudited pro forma operating results as though the acquisitions discussed
above had occurred at the beginning of the periods, with adjustments to give
effect to amortization of franchises and certain other adjustments for the
period, are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma information has been presented for comparative
purposes and does not purport to be indicative of the results of operations had
these transactions been complete as of the assumed date or which may be obtained
in the future.

5. RELATED PARTIES

     The Combined Systems have entered into management agreements with the
Management Company whose sole stockholder is affiliated with several of the
Combined Systems. The Combined Systems have also entered into a management
agreement with an entity (the "Affiliated Company") that has ownership interest
in certain of the Combined Systems. The agreements provide that the Management
Company and the Affiliated Company will manage their respective systems and
receive annual compensation equal to 2.5% to 5% of the gross revenues from
operations from their respective systems. Management fees were $6,161,558,
$4,072,179, and $3,663,560 for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 11,
1999 and the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     A company affiliated with the Management Company provides subscriber
billing services for a portion of the Combined Systems' subscribers. The
Combined Systems incurred fees for monthly billing and related

                                      F-146

            FANCH CABLE SYSTEMS SOLD TO CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

               NOTES TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

5. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
services in the approximate amounts of $362,000, $507,000, and $535,000 for the
period from January 1, 1999 to November 11, 1999 and the years ended December
31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The Combined Systems purchase the majority of their programming through the
Affiliated Company. Fees incurred for programming were approximately
$38,356,000, $24,600,000, and $22,200,000 for the period from January 1, 1999 to
November 11, 1999 and the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The Management Company pays amounts on behalf of and receives amounts from
the Combined Systems in the ordinary course of business. Accounts receivable and
payable of the Combined Systems include amounts due from and due to the
Management Company.

6. COMMITMENTS

     The Combined Systems, as an integral part of their cable operations, have
entered into lease contracts for certain items including tower rental, microwave
service and office space. Rent expense, including office, tower and pole rent,
for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 11, 1999 and the years ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997 was approximately $3,110,000, $2,462,866, and
$2,238,394, respectively. The majority of these agreements are on month-to-month
arrangements and, accordingly, the Combined Systems have no material future
minimum commitments related to these leases.

7. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

     The Combined Systems each have a defined contribution plan (the "Plan")
which qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore,
each system of the Combined Systems participates in the respective plan.
Combined Systems contributions were approximately $497,000, $354,000, and
$297,000 for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 11, 1999 and the years
ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                                      F-147


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Partners
Falcon Communications, L.P.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Falcon
Communications, L.P. as of December 31, 1998 and November 12, 1999, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, partners' equity (deficit) and
cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1998 and
for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999 (date of disposition).
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Partnership's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Falcon Communications, L.P. at December 31, 1998 and November 12, 1999 and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two
years in the period ended December 31, 1998 and for the period from January 1,
1999 to November 12, 1999 (date of disposition), in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Los Angeles, California
March 2, 2000

                                      F-148


                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-149


                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-150


                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF PARTNERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-151


                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                      F-152


                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

FORM OF PRESENTATION

     Falcon Communications, L.P. ("FCLP"), a California limited partnership (the
"Partnership") and successor to Falcon Holding Group, L.P. ("FHGLP"), owned and
operated cable television systems serving small to medium-sized communities and
the suburbs of certain cities in 23 states through November 12, 1999. On
September 30, 1998, pursuant to a Contribution and Purchase Agreement dated as
of December 30, 1997, as amended (the "Contribution Agreement"), FHGLP acquired
the assets and liabilities of Falcon Video Communications, L.P. ("Falcon
Video"), in exchange for ownership interests in FHGLP. Simultaneously with the
closing of that transaction, in accordance with the Contribution Agreement,
FHGLP contributed substantially all of the existing cable television system
operations owned by FHGLP and its subsidiaries (including the Falcon Video
Systems) to the Partnership and TCI Falcon Holdings, LLC ("TCI") contributed
certain cable television systems owned and operated by affiliates of TCI (the
"TCI Systems") to the Partnership (the "TCI Transaction"). As a result,
Tele-Communications, Inc. held approximately 46% of the equity interest of the
Partnership and FHGLP owned the remaining 54% and served as the managing general
partner of the Partnership. The TCI Transaction has been accounted for as a
recapitalization of FHGLP into the Partnership and the concurrent acquisition by
the Partnership of the TCI systems. In March 1999, AT&T and Tele-Communications,
Inc. completed a merger under which Tele-Communications, Inc. became a unit of
AT&T called AT&T Broadband & Internet Services, which became a general partner
of FCLP as a result of a merger.

     On November 12, 1999, Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC
("Charter") acquired the Partnership in a cash and stock transaction valued at
approximately $3.6 billion, including assumption of liabilities. Upon closing of
the transaction, the Partnership was merged with CC VII Holdings, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company and successor to FCLP.

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Partnership and its subsidiary holding companies and cable television operating
partnerships and corporations, which include Falcon Cable Communications LLC
("Falcon LLC"), a Delaware limited liability company that serves as the general
manager of the cable television subsidiaries. Such statements reflect balances
immediately prior to the acquisition transaction. The assets contributed by
FHGLP in 1998 to the Partnership excluded certain immaterial investments,
principally FHGLP's ownership of 100% of the outstanding stock of Enstar
Communications Corporation ("ECC"), which is the general partner and manager of
fifteen limited partnerships operating under the name "Enstar." ECC's ownership
interest in the Enstar partnerships ranges from 0.5% to 5%. Upon the
consummation of the TCI Transaction, the management of the Enstar partnerships
was assigned to the Partnership by FHGLP. The consolidated statements of
operations and statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1998
include FHGLP's interest in ECC for the nine months ended September 30, 1998.
The effects of ECC's operations on all previous periods presented are
immaterial. On November 12, 1999, Charter acquired ECC.

     FHGLP also controlled, held varying equity interests in and managed certain
other cable television partnerships (the "Affiliated Partnerships") for a fee.
FHGLP is a limited partnership, the sole general partner of which is Falcon
Holding Group, Inc., a California corporation ("FHGI"). FHGI also holds a 1%
interest in certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. At the beginning of
1998, the Affiliated Partnerships were comprised of Falcon Classic Cable Income
Properties, L.P. ("Falcon Classic") whose cable television systems are referred
to as the "Falcon Classic Systems," Falcon Video and the Enstar partnerships. As
discussed in Note 3, the Falcon Classic Systems were acquired by FHGLP during
1998. The Falcon Video Systems were acquired on September 30, 1998 in connection
with the TCI Transaction. As a result of these transactions, the Affiliated
Partnerships consist solely of the Enstar partnerships from October 1, 1998
forward.

                                      F-153

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

     All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation. The consolidated financial statements do not give effect to
any assets that the partners may have outside their interests in the
Partnership, nor to any obligations, including income taxes, of the partners.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

     For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Partnership
considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an initial maturity
of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents at December 31,
1997 and 1998 included $4.5 million and $345,000 of investments in commercial
paper and short-term investment funds of major financial institutions. There
were no such cash equivalents at November 12, 1999.

INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATED PARTNERSHIPS

     Prior to closing the TCI Transaction, the Partnership was the general
partner of certain entities, which in turn acted as general partner of the
Affiliated Partnerships. The Partnership's effective ownership interests in the
Affiliated Partnerships were less than one percent. The Affiliated Partnerships
were accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Equity in net losses
were recorded to the extent of the investments in and advances to the
partnerships plus obligations for which the Partnership, as general partner, was
responsible. The liabilities of the Affiliated Partnerships, other than amounts
due the Partnership, principally consisted of debt for borrowed money and
related accrued interest. The Partnership's ownership interests in the
Affiliated Partnerships were eliminated in 1998 with the acquisition of Falcon
Video and Falcon Classic and the retention by FHGLP of its interests in the
Enstar partnerships.

PROPERTY, PLANT, EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Direct costs associated
with installations in homes not previously served by cable are capitalized as
part of the distribution system, and reconnects are expensed as incurred. For
financial reporting, depreciation and amortization is computed using the
straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives.



FRANCHISE COST AND GOODWILL

     The excess of cost over the fair values of tangible assets and customer
lists of cable television systems acquired represents the cost of franchises and
goodwill. In addition, franchise cost includes capitalized costs incurred in
obtaining new franchises and in the renewal of existing franchises. These costs
are amortized using the straight-line method over the lives of the franchises,
ranging up to 28 years (composite 15 year average). Goodwill is amortized over
20 years. Costs relating to unsuccessful franchise applications are charged to
expense when it is determined that the efforts to obtain the franchise will not
be successful.

                                      F-154

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

CUSTOMER LISTS AND OTHER INTANGIBLE COSTS

     Customer lists and other intangible costs include customer lists, covenants
not to compete and organization costs which are amortized using the
straight-line method over two to five years.

DEFERRED LOAN COSTS

     Costs related to borrowings are capitalized and amortized to interest
expense over the life of the related loan.

RECOVERABILITY OF ASSETS

     The Partnership assesses on an ongoing basis the recoverability of
intangible assets (including goodwill) and capitalized plant assets based on
estimates of future undiscounted cash flows compared to net book value. If the
future undiscounted cash flow estimates were less than net book value, net book
value would then be reduced to estimated fair value, which generally
approximates discounted cash flows. The Partnership also evaluates the
amortization periods of assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets,
to determine whether events or circumstances warrant revised estimates of useful
lives.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenues from customer fees, equipment rental and advertising are
recognized in the period that services are delivered. Installation revenue is
recognized in the period the installation services are provided to the extent of
direct selling costs. Any remaining amount is deferred and recognized over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable television system. Management fees are recognized on the accrual basis
based on a percentage of gross revenues of the respective cable television
systems managed. Effective October 1, 1998, 20% of the management fees from the
Enstar partnerships was retained by FHGLP.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     As part of the Partnership's management of financial market risk and as
required by certain covenants in its New Credit Agreement, the Partnership
enters into various transactions that involve contracts and financial
instruments with off-balance-sheet risk, principally interest rate swap and
interest rate cap agreements. The Partnership enters into these agreements in
order to manage the interest-rate sensitivity associated with its variable-rate
indebtedness. The differential to be paid or received in connection with
interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements is recognized as interest
rates change and is charged or credited to interest expense over the life of the
agreements. Gains or losses for early termination of those contracts are
recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining portion of
the original life of the terminated contract.

INCOME TAXES

     The Partnership and its subsidiaries, except for Falcon First, Inc., are
limited partnerships or limited liability companies and pay no income taxes as
entities except for nominal taxes assessed by certain state jurisdictions. All
of the income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of the Partnership are
passed through to its partners. The basis in the Partnership's assets and
liabilities differs for financial and tax reporting purposes. At November 12,
1999, the book basis of the Partnership's net assets exceeded its tax basis by
$623 million.

ADVERTISING COSTS

     All advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
                                      F-155

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

NOTE 2 -- PARTNERSHIP MATTERS

     The Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of FCLP ("FCLP
Partnership Agreement") provided that profits and losses will be allocated, and
distributions will be made, in proportion to the partners' percentage interests.
Prior to November 13, 1999, FHGLP was the managing general partner and a limited
partner and owned a 54% interest in FCLP, and Tele-Communications, Inc. was a
general partner and owned a 46% interest. The partners' percentage interests
were based on the relative net fair market values of the assets contributed to
FCLP under the Contribution Agreement, as estimated at the closing. The
percentage interests were subsequently adjusted to reflect the December 1998
redemption of a small part of FHGLP's partnership interest.

     Through the closing of the sale to Charter, FCLP was required, under
certain circumstances, on or after April 1, 2006, to purchase the interests of
the non-management limited partners of FHGLP at their then fair value. The
estimated redemption value at December 31, 1998 was $133 million and was
reflected in the consolidated financial statements as redeemable partners'
equity. Such amount was determined based on management's estimate of the
relative fair value of such interests under then current market conditions.
These limited partners were redeemed from their portion of the Charter sale
proceeds as of November 12, 1999 for $424 million, which amount is shown as
redeemable partners' equity at that date.

     The Partnership assumed the obligations of FHGLP under the 1993 Incentive
Performance Plan (the "Incentive Performance Plan"), but FHGLP funded this
obligation from its portion of the Charter sale proceeds. See Note 8.

NOTE 3 -- ACQUISITIONS AND SALES

     In March and July 1998, FHGLP acquired the Falcon Classic Systems for an
aggregate purchase price of $83.4 million. Falcon Classic had revenue of
approximately $20.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     As discussed in Note 1, on September 30, 1998 the Partnership acquired the
TCI Systems and the Falcon Video Systems in accordance with the Contribution
Agreement.

                                      F-156

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 3 -- ACQUISITIONS AND SALES -- (CONTINUED)
     Sources and uses of funds for each of the transactions were as follows:



     The following unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations
present the consolidated results of operations of the Partnership as if the
acquisitions referred to above had occurred at the beginning of the periods
presented and are not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred had the
acquisitions been made as of such dates or of results which may occur in the
future.



                                      F-157

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 3 -- ACQUISITIONS AND SALES -- (CONTINUED)
     The acquisitions of the TCI Systems, the Falcon Video Systems and the
Falcon Classic Systems were accounted for by the purchase method of accounting,
whereby the purchase prices were allocated to the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the dates of
acquisition, as follows:



     The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired has
been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized using the straight-line method
over 20 years.

     The general partnership interests issued in the TCI Transaction were valued
in proportion to the estimated fair value of the TCI Systems and the Falcon
Video Systems as compared to the estimated fair value of the Partnership's
assets, which was agreed upon in the Contribution Agreement by all holders of
Partnership interests.

     In January 1999, the Partnership acquired the assets of certain cable
systems serving approximately 591 customers in Oregon for $801,000. On March 15,
1999, the Partnership acquired the assets of certain cable systems serving
approximately 7,928 customers in Utah for $6.8 million. On March 22, 1999, the
Partnership acquired the assets of the Franklin, Virginia system in exchange for
the assets of its Scottsburg, Indiana systems and $8 million in cash and
recognized a gain of $8.5 million. The Franklin system serves approximately
9,042 customers and the Scottsburg systems served approximately 4,507 customers.
On July 30, 1999, the Partnership acquired the assets of certain cable systems
serving approximately 6,500 customers in Oregon for $9.5 million.

     On March 1, 1999, the Partnership contributed $2.4 million cash and certain
systems located in Oregon with a net book value of $5.6 million to a joint
venture with Bend Cable Communications, Inc., which manages the joint venture.
The Partnership owns 17% of the joint venture. These systems had been acquired
from Falcon Classic in March 1998, and served approximately 3,471 subscribers at
March 1, 1999. On March 26, 1999, the Partnership sold certain systems serving
approximately 2,550 subscribers in Kansas for $3.0 million and recognized a gain
of $2.4 million. The effects of these transactions on results of operations are
not material.

                                      F-158

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 4 -- DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Cash and Cash Equivalents

     The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short maturity of
those instruments.

Notes Payable

     The fair value of the Partnership's 8.375% Senior Debentures and 9.285%
Senior Discount Debentures is based on quoted market prices for those issues of
debt as of December 31, 1998. The fair value at December 31, 1999 is based on
the redemption amounts paid by Charter to retire the obligations after the
acquisition by Charter. The fair value of the Partnership's other subordinated
notes is based on quoted market prices for similar issues of debt with similar
maturities. The carrying amount of the Partnership's remaining debt outstanding
approximates fair value due to its variable rate nature.

Interest Rate Hedging Agreements

     The fair value of interest rate hedging agreements is estimated by
obtaining quotes from brokers as to the amount either party would be required to
pay or receive in order to terminate the agreements.

     The following table depicts the fair value of each class of financial
instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value as of December
31:





     The carrying value of interest rate swaps was a net obligation of $9.3
million at December 31, 1998 and $9 million at November 12, 1999. See Note 6(e).
The amount of debt on which current interest expense has been affected is $960
million and $745 million for swaps at December 31, 1998 and November 12, 1999,
respectively. The balance of the contract totals presented above reflects
contracts entered into as of November 12, 1999 which do not become effective
until existing contracts expire.

                                      F-159

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 5 -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment consist of:



NOTE 6 -- NOTES PAYABLE

     Notes payable consist of:



     (a) 8.375% SENIOR DEBENTURES AND 9.285% SENIOR DISCOUNT DEBENTURES

     On April 3, 1998, FHGLP and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Falcon Funding
Corporation ("FFC" and, collectively with FHGLP, the "Issuers"), sold
$375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.375% Senior Debentures due 2010
(the "Senior Debentures") and $435,250,000 aggregate principal amount at
maturity of 9.285% Senior Discount Debentures due 2010 (the "Senior Discount
Debentures" and, collectively with the Senior Debentures, the "Debentures") in a
private placement. The Debentures were exchanged for debentures with the same
form and terms, but registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in
August 1998.

     In connection with consummation of the TCI Transaction, the Partnership was
substituted for FHGLP as an obligor under the Debentures and thereupon FHGLP was
released and discharged from any further obligation with respect to the
Debentures and the related Indenture. FFC remains as an obligor under the
Debentures and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Partnership. FFC was
incorporated solely for the purpose of serving as a co-issuer of the Debentures
and does not have any material operations or assets and will not have any
revenues.

     The Senior Discount Debentures were issued at a price of 63.329% per $1,000
aggregate principal amount at maturity, for total gross proceeds of
approximately $275.6 million, and will accrete to stated value at an

                                      F-160

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 6 -- NOTES PAYABLE -- (CONTINUED)
annual rate of 9.285% until April 15, 2003. The unamortized discount amounted to
$140.3 million at December 31, 1998 and $116.2 at November 12, 1999,
respectively. After giving effect to offering discounts, commissions and
estimated expenses of the offering, the sale of the Debentures (representing
aggregate indebtedness of approximately $650.6 million as of the date of
issuance) generated net proceeds of approximately $631 million. The Partnership
used substantially all the net proceeds from the sale of the Debentures to repay
outstanding bank indebtedness.

     (b) CREDIT FACILITY

     On June 30, 1998, the Partnership entered into a $1.5 billion senior credit
facility (the "Credit Facility") which replaced its earlier credit facility and
provided funds for the closing of the TCI Transaction. See Note 1. The borrowers
under the Credit Facility were the operating subsidiaries prior to consummation
of the TCI Transaction and, following the TCI Transaction, the borrower is
Falcon LLC. The restricted companies, as defined under the Credit Facility, are
Falcon LLC and each of its subsidiaries (excluding certain subsidiaries
designated as excluded companies from time to time) and each restricted company
(other than Falcon LLC) is also a guarantor of the Credit Facility.

     The Credit Facility consisted of three committed facilities (one revolver
and two term loans) and one uncommitted $350 million supplemental credit
facility (the terms of which will be negotiated at the time the Partnership
makes a request to draw on such facility). Facility A is a $650 million
revolving credit facility maturing December 29, 2006; Facility B is a $200
million term loan maturing June 29, 2007; and Facility C is a $300 million term
loan maturing December 31, 2007. All of Facility C and approximately $126
million of Facility B were funded on June 30, 1998, and the debt outstanding
under the Partnership's earlier credit facility of approximately $329 million
was repaid. As a result, from June 30, 1998 until September 29, 1998, FHGLP had
an excess cash balance of approximately $90 million. Immediately prior to
closing the TCI Transaction, approximately $39 million was borrowed under
Facility A to discharge certain indebtedness of Falcon Video. In connection with
consummation of the TCI Transaction, Falcon LLC assumed the approximately $433
million of indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility. In addition to
utilizing cash on hand of approximately $63 million, Falcon LLC borrowed the
approximately $74 million remaining under Facility B and approximately $366
million under Facility A to discharge approximately $73 million of Falcon Video
indebtedness and to retire approximately $430 million of TCI indebtedness
assumed as part of the contribution of the TCI Systems. As a result of these
borrowings, the amount outstanding under the Credit Facility at December 31,
1998 was $926 million. Subject to covenant limitations, the Partnership had
available to it additional borrowing capacity thereunder of $224 million at
December 31, 1998. However, limitations imposed by the Partnership's partnership
agreement, as amended, would limit available borrowings at December 31, 1998 to
$23.1 million.

     (c) AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

     On November 12, 1999, the Partnership amended the Credit Facility with the
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Amended Agreement") providing for a
$1.85 billion senior credit facility. The Amended Agreement consists of four
committed facilities (two revolvers and two term loans) and one uncommitted $590
million supplemental credit facility (the terms of which will be negotiated at
the time the Partnership makes a request to draw on such facility). Facility A
is a $646 million revolving credit facility maturing December 29, 2006; Facility
B is a $200 million term loan maturing June 29, 2007; Facility C is a $300
million term loan maturing December 31, 2007; and Facility D is a $110 million
supplemental revolving credit facility maturing on December 31, 2007. As a
result of borrowings, the amount outstanding under the Amended Agreement at
November 12, 1999 was $1.018 billion. The Partnership had available to it
additional borrowing capacity thereunder of $235 million. However debt covenants
limit the amount that can be
                                      F-161

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 6 -- NOTES PAYABLE -- (CONTINUED)
borrowed to $205 million at November 12, 1999, which was subject to limitations
imposed by the Partnership's partnership agreement. Charter paid the lenders a
fee of $2 million to obtain the Amended Agreement.

     (d) OTHER SUBORDINATED NOTES

     Other subordinated notes consisted of 11.56% Subordinated Notes due March
2001. The subordinated notes were repaid by Charter on November 12, 1999 with
accrued interest of $202,000 and a prepayment premium of $1,143,000.

     (e) INTEREST RATE HEDGING AGREEMENTS

     The Partnership utilizes interest rate hedging agreements to establish
long-term fixed interest rates on a portion of its variable-rate debt. The
Amended Agreement requires that interest be tied to the ratio of consolidated
total debt to consolidated annualized cash flow (in each case, as defined
therein), and further requires that the Partnership maintain hedging
arrangements with respect to at least 50% of the outstanding borrowings
thereunder plus any additional borrowings of the Partnership, including the
Debentures, for a two year period. As of November 12, 1999, borrowings under the
Amended Agreement bore interest at an average rate of 7.51% (including the
effect of interest rate hedging agreements). The Partnership has entered into
fixed interest rate hedging agreements with an aggregate notional amount at
November 12, 1999 of $1.28 billion. Agreements in effect at November 12, 1999
totaled $745 million, with the remaining $535 million to become effective as
certain of the existing contracts mature from 2000 through October 2004. These
agreements expire at various times through October 2006.

     The hedging agreements resulted in additional interest expense of $350,000,
$1.2 million and $3.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998 and
for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999, respectively. The
Partnership does not believe that it has any significant risk of exposure to
non-performance by any of its counterparties.

     (f) DEBT MATURITIES

     The Partnership's notes payable outstanding at November 12, 1999 mature as
follows:



     (G) EXTRAORDINARY ITEM

     Fees and expenses incurred in connection with the repurchase of the
Partnership's 11% Notes (the "Notes") on May 19, 1998 and the retirement of the
remaining Notes on September 15, 1998 were $19.7 million in the aggregate. In
addition, the unamortized portion of deferred loan costs related to the Notes
and a previous credit facility, which amounted to $10.9 million in the
aggregate, were written off as an extraordinary charge upon the extinguishment
of the related debt in 1998.
                                      F-162

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 7 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Partnership leases land, office space and equipment under operating
leases expiring at various dates through the year 2039. See Note 9.

     Future minimum rentals for operating leases at November 12, 1999 are as
follows:



     In most cases, management expects that, in the normal course of business,
these leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases. Rent expense amounted
to $2.4 million in 1997, $3.1 million in 1998 and $3.6 million for the period
from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999.

     In addition, the Partnership rents line space on utility poles in some of
the franchise areas it serves. These rentals amounted to $3.1 million for 1997,
$3.9 million for 1998 and $4.5 million for the period from January 1, 1999 to
November 12, 1999. Generally, such pole rental agreements are short-term;
however, the Partnership anticipates such rentals will continue in the future.

     Beginning in August 1997, the Partnership elected to self-insure its cable
distribution plant and subscriber connections against property damage as well as
possible business interruptions caused by such damage. The decision to
self-insure was made due to significant increases in the cost of insurance
coverage and decreases in the amount of insurance coverage available. In October
1998, the Partnership reinstated third party insurance coverage against damage
to its cable distribution plant and subscriber connections and against business
interruptions resulting from such damage. This coverage is subject to a
significant annual deductible and is intended to limit the Partnership's
exposure to catastrophic losses, if any, in future periods. Management believes
that the relatively small size of the Partnership's markets in any one
geographic area, coupled with their geographic separation, will mitigate the
risk that the Partnership could sustain losses due to seasonal weather
conditions or other events that, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse
effect on the Partnership's liquidity and cash flows. The Partnership continues
to purchase insurance coverage in amounts management views as appropriate for
all other property, liability, automobile, workers' compensation and other types
of insurable risks.

     The Partnership is required under various franchise agreements at November
12, 1999 to rebuild certain existing cable systems at a cost of approximately
$125.4 million.

     The Partnership is regulated by various federal, state and local government
entities. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992
(the "1992 Cable Act"), provides for among other things, federal and local
regulation of rates charged for basic cable service, cable programming service
tiers ("CPSTs") and equipment and installation services. Regulations issued in
1993 and significantly amended in 1994 by the Federal Communications Commission
(the "FCC") have resulted in changes in the rates charged for the Partnership's
cable services. The Partnership believes that compliance with the 1992 Cable Act
has had a negative impact on its operations and cash flow. It also presently
believes that any potential future liabilities for refund claims or other
related actions would not be material. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the
"1996 Telecom Act") was signed into law on February 8, 1996. As it pertains to
cable television,

                                      F-163

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 7 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES -- (CONTINUED)
the 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, (i) ends the regulation of certain
CPSTs in 1999; (ii) expands the definition of effective competition, the
existence of which displaces rate regulation; (iii) eliminates the restriction
against the ownership and operation of cable systems by telephone companies
within their local exchange service areas; and (iv) liberalizes certain of the
FCC's cross-ownership restrictions.

     The Partnership has various contracts to obtain basic and premium
programming from program suppliers whose compensation is generally based on a
fixed fee per customer or a percentage of the gross receipts for the particular
service. Some program suppliers provide volume discount pricing structures or
offer marketing support to the Partnership. The Partnership's programming
contracts are generally for a fixed period of time and are subject to negotiated
renewal. The Partnership does not have long-term programming contracts for the
supply of a substantial amount of its programming. Accordingly, no assurances
can be given that the Partnership's programming costs will not continue to
increase substantially or that other materially adverse terms will not be added
to the Partnership's programming contracts. Management believes, however, that
the Partnership's relations with its programming suppliers generally are good.

     Effective December 1, 1998, the Partnership elected to obtain certain of
its programming services through an affiliate of TCI. This election resulted in
a reduction in the Partnership's programming costs, the majority of which will
be passed on to its customers in the form of reduced rates in compliance with
FCC rules. The Partnership has elected to continue to acquire its remaining
programming services under its existing programming contracts. The Partnership,
in the normal course of business, purchases cable programming services from
certain program suppliers owned in whole or in part by an affiliate of TCI.

     The Partnership is periodically a party to various legal proceedings. Such
legal proceedings are ordinary and routine litigation proceedings that are
incidental to the Partnership's business, and management presently believes that
the outcome of all pending legal proceedings will not, individually or in the
aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Partnership.

     The Partnership, certain of its affiliates, and certain third parties were
named as defendants in an action entitled Frank O'Shea I.R.A. et al. v. Falcon
Cable Systems Company, et al., Case No. BC 147386, in the Superior Court of the
State of California, County of Los Angeles (the "Action"). Plaintiffs in the
Action were certain former unitholders of Falcon Cable Systems Company ("FCSC")
purporting to represent a class consisting of former unitholders of FCSC other
than those affiliated with FCSC and/or its controlling persons. The complaint in
the Action alleged, among other things, that defendants breached their fiduciary
and contractual duties to unitholders, and acted negligently, with respect to
the purchase from former unitholders of their interests in FCSC in 1996. A
settlement of the action was approved by the court in May 1999 and has become
effective. The terms of the settlement did not have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition of the Partnership. Net of insurance proceeds, the
settlement's cost to the Partnership amounted to approximately $2.9 million. The
Partnership recognized expenses related to the settlement of $145,000, $2.5
million and $166,000 in 1997, 1998, and for the period from January 1, 1999 to
November 12, 1999, respectively.

     In various states, customers have filed punitive class action lawsuits on
behalf of all persons residing in those states who are or were customers of the
Partnership's cable television service, and who have been charged a fee for
delinquent payment of their cable bill. The actions challenge the legality of
the processing fee and seek declaratory judgment, injunctive relief and
unspecified damages. At this stage, the Partnership is not able to project the
outcome of the actions.

NOTE 8 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The subsidiaries of the Partnership have a cash or deferred profit sharing
plan (the "Profit Sharing Plan") covering substantially all of their employees.
FHGLP joined in the adoption of the FHGI cash or
                                      F-164

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 8 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS -- (CONTINUED)
deferred profit sharing plan as of March 31, 1993. The provisions of this plan
were amended to be substantially identical to the provisions of the Profit
Sharing Plan.

     The Profit Sharing Plan provides that each participant may elect to make a
contribution in an amount up to 20% of the participant's annual compensation
which otherwise would have been payable to the participant as salary. The
Partnership's contribution to the Profit Sharing Plan, as determined by
management, is discretionary but may not exceed 15% of the annual aggregate
compensation (as defined) paid to all participating employees. Effective January
1, 1999 the Profit Sharing Plan was amended, whereby the Partnership would make
an employer contribution equal to 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of
the participant's contributions, respectively. There were no contributions for
the Profit Sharing Plan in 1997 or 1998. The partnership contributed $1.0
million during the period from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999.

     On September 30 1998, the Partnership assumed the obligations of FHGLP for
its 1993 Incentive Performance Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). The value of the
interests in the Incentive Plan was tied to the equity value of certain
partnership units in FHGLP held by FHGI. In connection with the assumption by
the Partnership, FHGLP agreed to fund any benefits payable under the Incentive
Plan through additional capital contributions to the Partnership, the waiver of
its rights to receive all or part of certain distributions from the Partnership
and/or a contribution of a portion of its partnership units to the Partnership.
The benefits which were payable under the Incentive Plan are equal to the amount
of distributions which FHGI would have otherwise received with respect to
1,932.67 of the units of FHGLP held by FHGI and a portion of FHGI's interest in
certain of the partnerships that are the general partners of the Partnership's
operating subsidiaries. Benefits were payable under the Incentive Plan only when
distributions would otherwise be paid to FHGI with respect to the
above-described units and interests.

     In 1999, the Partnership adopted a Restricted Unit Plan (the "New FCLP
Incentive Plan" or "Plan") for the benefit of certain employees. Grants of
restricted units are provided at the discretion of the Advisory Committee. The
value of the units in the New FCLP Incentive Plan is tied to the equity value of
FCLP above a base equity as determined initially in 1999 by the partners, and
for grants in subsequent years by an appraisal. Benefits are payable under the
New FCLP Incentive Plan only when distributions would otherwise be payable to
equity holders of FCLP. An initial grant of 100,000 units representing 2.75% of
the equity of FCLP in excess of the equity base was approved and will be
allocated to the participants in the Plan. There is a five-year vesting
requirement for all participants.

     In connection with the sale of the Partnership to Charter discussed in Note
1, the Partnership recorded compensation expense in the amount of approximately
$46.4 million related to both the Incentive Plan ($21 million) and the New FCLP
Incentive Plan ($25.4 million). The amount was determined based on the value of
the underlying ownership units, as established by the sale of the Partnership to
Charter, and on estimated closing working capital and debt balances of the
Partnership. The Partnership paid $33 million on November 12, 1999 to certain
employees. The payments were funded by net proceeds of the sale. The Partnership
transferred its remaining liability approximating $13.4 million to FHGLP who
will make the final payments under the plans. The participants in the Incentive
Plan were present and former employees of the Partnership, FHGLP and its
operating affiliates, all of whom were 100% vested. Prior to the closing of the
TCI Transaction, FHGLP amended the Incentive Plan to provide for payments by
FHGLP at the closing of the TCI Transaction to participants in an aggregate
amount of approximately $6.5 million and to reduce by such amount FHGLP's
obligations to make future payments to participants under the Incentive Plan.

     In addition to the amounts expensed pursuant to the equity plans, the
Partnership recorded bonuses to certain employees in the aggregate amount of $20
million upon the closing of the sale to Charter. The Partnership also recorded
employee severance and other compensation aggregating $4.2 million. The
Partnership paid $11.8 million on November 12, 1999 to certain employees. The
payments were funded by net

                                      F-165

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 8 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS -- (CONTINUED)
proceeds of the sale. The Partnership transferred its remaining liability
approximating $12.4 million to FHGLP who will make the final payment. The
aggregate amount of expenses recorded under benefit plans and severance and
other compensation of $70.7 million was recorded as a capital contribution, as
FHGLP's share of the proceeds from the sale have been, or will be, used to fund
such obligations.

NOTE 9 -- RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Partnership is a separate, stand-alone holding company which employs
all of the management personnel. The Partnership is financially dependent on the
receipt of permitted payments from its operating subsidiaries, management and
consulting fees from domestic cable ventures, and the reimbursement of specified
expenses by certain of the Affiliated Partnerships to fund its operations.
Expected increases in the funding requirements of the Partnership combined with
limitations on its sources of cash may create liquidity issues for the
Partnership in the future. Specifically, the Credit Facility permitted the
subsidiaries of the Partnership to remit to the Partnership no more than 4.25%
of their net cable revenues, as defined, in any year. Beginning on January 1,
1999, this limitation was increased to 4.5% of net cable revenues in any year.
As a result of the 1998 acquisition by the Partnership of the Falcon Classic and
Falcon Video Systems, the Partnership will no longer receive management fees and
reimbursed expenses from Falcon Classic or receive management fees from Falcon
Video. Commencing on October 1, 1998, FHGLP retains 20% of the management fees
paid by the Enstar partnerships. The management fees earned from the Enstar
partnerships were $2 million, $1.9 million and $1.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1998 and for the period from January 1, 1999 to November
12, 1999, respectively.

     The management and consulting fees and expense reimbursements earned from
the Affiliated Partnerships amounted to approximately $5.2 million and $2.1
million, $3.7 million and $1.5 million and $1.4 million and $1.4 million for the
years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998 and for the period ended November 12,
1999, respectively. The fees and expense reimbursements of $3.7 million and $1.5
million earned in 1998 included $191,000 and $128,000 earned from Falcon Classic
from January 1, 1998 through July 16, 1998, and $1.2 million in management fees
from Falcon Video from January 1, 1998 through September 30, 1998. Subsequent to
these acquisitions, the amounts payable to the Partnership in respect of its
management of the former Falcon Classic and Falcon Video systems became subject
to the limitations contained in the Credit Facility.

     Included in Commitments and Contingencies (Note 7) is a facility lease
agreement with the Partnership's Chief Executive Officer and his wife, or
entities owned by them, requiring annual future minimum rental payments
aggregating $2.5 million through 2005. During the years ended December 31, 1997
and 1998 and for the period ended November 12, 1999, rent expense on the
facility amounted to $383,000, $416,000 and $369,000, respectively. FCLP
purchased a facility owned by the Partnership's Chief Executive Officer and his
wife in February 1999 for $283,000 which was previously leased by FCLP.

     In addition, the Partnership provides certain accounting, bookkeeping and
clerical services to the Partnership's Chief Executive Officer. The costs of
services provided were determined based on allocations of time plus overhead
costs (rent, parking, supplies, telephone, etc.). Such services amounted to
$163,000, $212,000 and $256,000 for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998
and for the period from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999, respectively.
These costs were net of amounts reimbursed to the Partnership by the Chief
Executive Officer amounting to $55,000, $72,000 and $77,000 for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1998 and for the period from January 1, 1999 to November
12, 1999, respectively.

                                      F-166

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 10 -- OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Other income (expense) is comprised of the following:



NOTE 11 -- SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

Operating activities

     During the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998 and the period from
January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999, FCLP paid cash interest amounting to
approximately $48.1 million, $84.9 million and $93.9 million, respectively.

Investing activities

     See Note 3 regarding the non-cash investing activities related to the
acquisitions of the cable systems of the TCI Systems, the Falcon Video Systems
and the Falcon Classic Systems. Also included in Note 3 are the non-cash
investing activities related to the exchange of the Partnership's Scottsburg,
Indiana system for a system in Franklin, Virginia.

Financing activities

     See Note 3 regarding the non-cash financing activities relating to the
acquisitions of the cable systems of the TCI Systems, the Falcon Video Systems
and the Falcon Classic Systems. See Note 2 regarding the reclassification to
redeemable partners' equity.

NOTE 12 -- FCLP (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

     The following parent-only condensed financial information presents Falcon
Communications, L.P.'s balance sheets and related statements of operations and
cash flows by accounting for the investments in its subsidiaries on the equity
method of accounting. The accompanying condensed financial information should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto.

                                      F-167

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 12 FCLP (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) -- (CONTINUED)
                      CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION



                                      F-168

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 12 FCLP (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) -- (CONTINUED)
                 CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION



                                      F-169

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 12 FCLP (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) -- (CONTINUED)
                 CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION



NOTE 13 -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



- ---------------

(a) Provision for losses, net of recoveries.

(b) Write-off uncollectible accounts.

(c) Allowance for losses on receivables acquired in connection with the
    acquisition of Falcon Classic, Falcon Video and the TCI Systems.

                                      F-170

                          FALCON COMMUNICATIONS, L.P.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 14 -- YEAR 2000 (UNAUDITED)

     In the prior years, the Partnership discussed the nature and progress of
its plans to become Year 2000 ready. In late 1999, the Partnership completed its
remediation and testing of systems. As a result of those planning and
implementation efforts, the Partnership experienced no significant disruptions
in mission critical information technology and non-information technology
systems and believes those systems successfully responded to the Year 2000 date
change. The Partnership expensed approximately $4.7 million during the period
from January 1, 1999 to November 12, 1999 in connection with remediating its
systems. The Partnership is not aware of any material problems resulting from
Year 2000 issues, either with its products, its internal systems, or the
products and services of third parties.

                                      F-171


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO CC V HOLDINGS, LLC:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of CC V
Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the period from
November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999, and the consolidated statements of
operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for the period from
January 1, 1999, through November 14, 1999. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CC V
Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the period from November 15, 1999, through
December 31, 1999, and for the period from January 1, 1999, through November 14,
1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,
substantially all of CC V Holdings, LLC was acquired by Charter Communications
Holding Company, LLC as of November 15, 1999, in a business combination
accounted for as a purchase. As a result of the application of purchase
accounting, the consolidated financial statements of CC V Holdings, LLC and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999, and for the Successor Period (November 15,
1999, through December 31, 1999), are presented on a different cost basis than
financial statements presented for the Predecessor Period (January 1, 1999,
through November 14, 1999), and accordingly, are not directly comparable.

/s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

St. Louis, Missouri,
  February 16, 2000

                                      F-172


                      CC V HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-173


                      CC V HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                      F-174


                      CC V HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement.
                                      F-175


                      CC V HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.
                                      F-176


                      CC V HOLDINGS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Organization and Basis of Presentation

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
CC V Holdings, LLC (CC V Holdings), (formerly known as Avalon Cable LLC (Avalon
Cable)), and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). CC V
Holdings is a Delaware limited liability company. The Company derives its
primary source of revenues by providing various levels of cable programming and
services to residential and business customers. The Company operates primarily
in the state of Michigan and in the New England area. The Company also owns and
operates various Internet service providers, which provide dial-up telephone
access to the Internet via a modem.

     All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.

Acquisition

     On November 15, 1999, Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC (Charter
Holdco) purchased directly and indirectly all of the equity interests of Avalon
Cable of Michigan Holdings, Inc. (Avalon Michigan Holdings) for an aggregate
purchase price of $832,000, including assumed debt of $273,400 (the "Charter
Acquisition"). In connection with a multistep restructuring following the
acquisition of Avalon Michigan Holdings, Avalon Michigan Holdings was merged
with and into CC V Holdings. Effective January 1, 2000, these interests acquired
were transferred to Charter Communications Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Holdco.

     As a result of the Charter Acquisition, the Company has applied purchase
accounting in the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. Accordingly, CC V Holdings' increased its member's equity to
$383,308 to reflect the amount paid in the Charter Acquisition and has allocated
that amount to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their relative
fair values including amounts assigned to franchises of $727,720. The allocation
of the purchase price is based, in part, on preliminary information, which is
subject to adjustment upon completion of certain appraisal and valuation
information. Management believes that finalization of the purchase price and
allocation will not have a material impact on the consolidated results of
operations or financial position of the Company.

     As a result of the Charter Acquisition and the application of purchase
accounting, financial information in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto as of December 31, 1999, and for the period from
November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999 (the "Successor Period") are
presented on a different cost basis than the financial information for the
period from January 1, 1999, through November 14, 1999, (the "Predecessor
Period") and therefore, such information is not comparable.

     Prior to the Charter Acquisition, Avalon Michigan Holdings had a majority
interest in CC V Holdings.

Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. These investments are
carried at cost that approximates market value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost, including all direct and
certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television
transmission and distribution facilities, and the cost of new customer
installations. The costs of disconnecting a customer are charged to expense in
the period incurred. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to
expense as incurred, while equipment replacement and betterments are
capitalized.
                                      F-177


     Depreciation for the Successor Period is provided on the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows:



     Depreciation for the Predecessor Period was provided on the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows:



Franchises

     Costs incurred in obtaining and renewing cable franchises are deferred and
amortized over the lives of the franchises. Costs relating to unsuccessful
franchise applications are charged to expense when it is determined that the
efforts to obtain the franchise will not be successful. Franchise rights
acquired through the purchase of cable systems, including the Charter
Acquisition, represent the excess of the cost of properties acquired over the
amounts assigned to net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets at
the date of acquisition and are amortized using the straight-line method over a
period of 15 years. The period of 15 years is management's best estimate of the
useful lives of the franchises and assumes substantially all of those franchises
that expire during the period will be renewed by the Company. Accumulated
amortization was $5,976 at December 31, 1999. Amortization expense for the
period from January 1, 1999 through November 14, 1999 and for the period from
November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999, was $29,679 and $5,976,
respectively.

Deferred Financing Costs

     Costs related to the Senior Credit Facilities (as defined below) are
deferred and amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate
method over the term of the related borrowing. As of December 31, 1999,
accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs is $17.

Impairment of Assets

     If facts and circumstances suggest that a long-lived asset may be impaired,
the carrying value is reviewed. If a review indicates that the carrying value of
such asset is not recoverable based on projected undiscounted cash flows related
to the asset over its remaining life, the carrying value of such asset is
reduced to its estimated fair value.

Revenues

     Cable television revenues from basic and premium services are recognized
when the related services are provided.

     Installation revenues are recognized to the extent of direct selling costs
incurred. The remainder, if any, is deferred and amortized to income over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable system. As of December 31, 1999, no installation revenue has been
deferred, as direct selling costs have exceeded installation revenue.

     Fees collected from programmers to guarantee carriage are deferred and
amortized to income over the life of the contracts. Local governmental
authorities impose franchise fees on the Company ranging up to a federally
mandated maximum of 5.0% of gross revenues. Such fees are collected on a monthly
basis from the Company's customers and are periodically remitted to local
franchises. Franchise fees collected and paid are reported as revenues and
expenses.

                                      F-178


Interest Rate Hedge Agreements

     The Company manages fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate
hedge agreements, as required by certain of its debt agreements. Interest rate
caps are accounted for as hedges of debt obligations, and accordingly, the net
settlement amounts are recorded as adjustments to interest expense in the period
incurred. Premiums paid for interest rate caps are deferred, included in other
assets, and are amortized over the original term of the interest rate agreement
as an adjustment to interest expense.

     Interest rate caps are entered into by the Company to reduce the impact of
rising interest rates on floating rate debt.

     The Company's participation in interest rate hedging transactions involves
instruments that have a close correlation with its debt, thereby managing its
risk. Interest rate hedge agreements have been designated for hedging purposes
and are not held or issued for speculative purposes.

Income Taxes

     Prior to the Charter Acquisition, the Company filed a consolidated income
tax return. The tax benefit of $13,936 in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations for the period from January 1, 1999, through November
14, 1999, is recorded at 37%. This approximates the statutory tax rate of the
Company.

     Beginning November 15, 1999, the Company and all subsidiaries are limited
liability companies such that all income taxes are the responsibility of the
equity member of the Company and are not provided for in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. In addition, certain subsidiaries or
corporations are subject to income taxes but have no operations and, therefore,
no material income tax liabilities or assets.

Segments

     Segments have been identified based upon management responsibility. The
Company operates in one segment, cable services.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Concentration of Credit Risk

     Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to a
concentration of credit risk include cash and subscriber and other receivables.
The Company had cash in excess of federally insured deposits at financial
institutions at December 31, 1999. The Company does not believe that such
deposits are subject to any unusual credit risk beyond the normal credit risk
associated with operating its business. The Company extends credit to customers
on an unsecured basis in the normal course of business. The Company maintains
reserves for potential credit losses and such losses, in the aggregate, have not
historically exceeded management's expectations. The Company's trade receivables
reflect a customer base centered in Michigan and New England. The Company
routinely assesses the financial strength of its customers; as a result,
concentrations of credit risk are limited.

                                      F-179


2. MEMBER'S EQUITY:

     For the period from November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999, successor
member's equity consisted of the following:



3. ACQUISITIONS:

     On March 26, 1999, Avalon Michigan Holdings acquired the minority interest
of Mercom Inc. (Mercom) for $21,875. In addition, the Company acquired eight
cable systems for an aggregate purchase price of $25,362 in 1999. These eight
acquisitions, which were completed during the Predecessor Period, were accounted
for using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, results of
operations of the acquired systems have been included in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements from the dates of acquisition. The purchase
prices were allocated to tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair
market values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid
over the estimated fair market values of the net assets acquired was $12,940 and
was amortized using the straight-line method over 15 years during the
Predecessor Period. All goodwill was eliminated as a result of the Charter
Acquisition.

     Unaudited pro forma operating results as though the 1999 acquisitions
discussed above, including the Charter Acquisition, had occurred on January 1,
1999, with adjustments to give effect to amortization of franchises, interest
expense and certain other adjustments are as follows:



     The unaudited pro forma financial information has been presented for
comparative purposes and does not purport to be indicative of the results of
operations had these transactions been completed as of the assumed date or which
may be obtained in the future.

4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

     Property, plant and equipment consists of the following at December 31,
1999:



     Depreciation expense for assets owned by the Company for the period from
January 1, 1999, through November 14, 1999, and for the period from November 15,
1999, through December 31, 1999, was $10,264 and $1,802, respectively.

                                      F-180


5. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES:

     Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following at December
31, 1999:



6. LONG-TERM DEBT:

     The Company has outstanding the following borrowings on long-term debt
arrangements at December 31, 1999:



Credit Facilities

     On November 6, 1998, Avalon Michigan became a co-borrower along with Avalon
Cable of New England LLC (Avalon New England) and Avalon Cable Finance, Inc.
(Avalon Finance), affiliated companies on the $320,888 senior credit facilities,
which included term loan facilities consisting of (i) tranche A term loans of
$120,888 and (ii) tranche B term loans of $170,000 and a revolving credit
facility of $30,000 (collectively, the "Old Credit Facilities").

     In connection with the Senior Subordinated Notes (as defined below) and
Senior Discount Notes (as defined below) offerings, Avalon Michigan repaid
$125,013 of the Old Credit Facilities, and the availability under the Old Credit
Facilities was reduced to $195,875 prior to the Charter Acquisition.

     The interest rate under the Old Credit Facilities was a rate based on
either (i) the base rate (a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Prime
Rate and the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 1/2 of 1%) or (ii) the Eurodollar
rate (a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Base Rate divided by 1.00 less
the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements) plus, in either case, an applicable
margin.

     In connection with the Charter Acquisition, the Old Credit Facilities were
terminated.

     Effective November 15, 1999, the Company became a borrower on $300,000
senior credit facilities, which includes term loan facilities consisting of (i)
a Term B Loan of $125,000 that matures on November 15, 2008, and (ii) a
revolving credit facility of $175,000 that matures on May 15, 2008
(collectively, the "Senior Credit Facilities"). The Senior Credit Facilities
also provide for, at the option of the lenders, supplemental credit facilities
in the amounts of $75,000, available until December 31, 2003.

     The interest rate under the Senior Credit Facilities is a rate based on
either (i) the base rate (a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Prime
Rate and the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 1/2 of 1%) or (ii) the Eurodollar
rate (a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Base Rate divided by 1.00 less
the Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements) plus, in either case, an applicable
margin. The variable interest rate as of December 31, 1999, ranged from 7.995%
to 8.870%. A quarterly commitment fee of between 0.250% to 0.375% per annum is
payable on the unborrowed balance of the revolving credit facility.

                                      F-181


     Commencing March 31, 2003, and at the end of each quarter thereafter
through September 30, 2008, the Term B Loan is payable in installments of 0.25%
of the outstanding balance, and the remaining 94.25% unpaid outstanding balance
is due on November 15, 2008. Commencing March 31, 2003, and at the end of each
quarter thereafter, available borrowings under the revolving credit facility
shall be reduced on an annual basis by 5.0% in 2003, 15.0% in 2004, 20.0% in
2005, 22.0% in 2006, 24.0% in 2007 and 14.0% in 2008.

     The Senior Credit Facilities contain restrictive covenants which, among
other things, require the Company to maintain certain ratios including
consolidated leverage ratios and the interest coverage ratio, fixed charge ratio
and debt service coverage.

     The obligations of the Company under the Senior Credit Facilities agreement
are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

Senior Subordinated Notes

     In December 1998, Avalon Michigan became a co-issuer of a $150,000
principal amount of 9.375% Senior Subordinated Notes (the "Senior Subordinated
Notes").

     The indenture governing the Senior Subordinated Notes provides that upon
the occurrence of a change of control each holder of the Senior Subordinated
Notes has the right to require the Company to purchase all or any part (equal to
$1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of such holder's Senior Subordinated
Notes at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount
thereon plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages (as defined in
the indentures) thereof, if any, to the date of purchase. The Charter
Acquisition constituted a change of control.

     Pursuant to a change of control offer dated December 3, 1999, 134,050 of
the Company's 9.375% Senior Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2008 were validly
tendered.

     The aggregate repurchase price was $137,400, including accrued and unpaid
interest through January 28, 2000, and was funded with equity contributions from
Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (Charter Holdings), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Charter Holdco and parent of CC V Holdings, which made the cash
available from the proceeds of its sale of $1.5 billion of high yield notes in
January 2000 (the "January 2000 Charter Holdings Notes").

     In addition to the above change of control repurchase, the Company
repurchased the remaining 15,950 notes (including accrued and unpaid interest)
in the open market for $16,300, also using cash received from equity
contributions ultimately from Charter Holdings, which made the cash available
from the sale proceeds of the January 2000 Charter Holdings Notes.

Senior Discount Notes

     On December 10, 1998, Avalon Michigan Holdings and Avalon Cable Holdings
Finance, Inc. (collectively, the "Holdings Co-Issuers") issued $196,000
aggregate principal amount at maturity of 11.875% Senior Discount Notes (the
"Senior Discount Notes") due 2008.

     The Senior Discount Notes were issued at a substantial discount from their
principal amount at maturity, for proceeds of approximately $110,400. Interest
on the Senior Discount Notes will accrue but not be payable before December 1,
2003. Thereafter, interest on the Senior Discount Notes will accrue on the
principal amount at maturity at a rate of 11.875% per annum commencing December
1, 2003, and will be payable semiannually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of
each year. Prior to December 1, 2003, the accreted value of the Senior Discount
Notes will increase, representing amortization of original issue discount,
between the date of original issuance and December 1, 2003, on a semiannual
basis using a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months, such that the
accreted value shall be equal to the full principal amount at maturity of the
Senior Discount Notes on December 1, 2003.

     On December 1, 2003, the Holdings Co-Issuers will be required to redeem an
amount equal to $369.79 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of each Senior
Discount Note then outstanding on a pro rata basis at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount at maturity.
                                      F-182


     On or after December 1, 2003, the Senior Discount Notes will be subject to
redemption at any time at the option of the Holdings Co-Issuers, in whole or in
part, at the redemption prices, which are expressed as percentages of principal
amount, shown below plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and liquidated
damages, if any, thereon to the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during
the twelve-month period beginning on December 1 of the years indicated below:



     Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time before December 1, 2001, the
holding companies may on any one or more occasions redeem up to 35% of the
aggregate principal amount at maturity of senior discount notes originally
issued under the Senior Discount Note indenture at a redemption price equal to
111.875% of the accreted value at the date of redemption, plus liquidated
damages, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of any
equity offering and/or the net cash proceeds of a strategic equity investment.

     Upon the occurrence of a change of control, each holder of Senior Discount
Notes will have the right to require the Holdings Co-Issuers to repurchase all
or any part of such holder's Senior Discount Notes pursuant to a change of
control offer at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal
amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages thereon,
if any, to the date of purchase. The Charter Acquisition constituted a change of
control.

     Upon expiration of the change of control offer (January 26, 2000), 16,250
of the Senior Discount Notes due were validly tendered.

     The Senior Discount Notes were repurchased for $10,500 using cash received
from equity contributions from Charter Holdings. As of February 29, 2000,
179,750 Senior Discount Notes remain outstanding with an accreted value of
$116,400.

     Based upon outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 1999, and the
amortization of term, and scheduled reductions in available borrowings of the
revolving credit facility, aggregate future principal payments on the total
borrowings under all debt agreements at December 31, 1999, are as follows:



7. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

     The carrying and fair values of the Company's significant financial
instruments as of December 31, 1999, are as follows:



                                      F-183


     The carrying amount of the Senior Credit Facilities approximates fair value
as the outstanding borrowings bear interest at market rates. The fair values of
the Senior Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes are based on quoted
market prices.

     The interest pay rate for the interest rate cap agreement was 9.0% at
December 31, 1999.

     The notional amount of the interest rate hedge agreement does not represent
amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the Company's
exposure through its use of the interest rate hedge agreement. The amounts
exchanged are determined by reference to the notional amount and the other terms
of the contract.

     The fair value of the interest rate hedge agreement generally reflects the
estimated amount that the Company would receive (excluding accrued interest) to
terminate the contract on the reporting date, thereby taking into account the
current unrealized gains or losses of the open contract. Dealer quotations are
available for the Company's interest rate hedge agreement.

     Management believes that the seller of the interest rate hedge agreement
will be able to meet their obligations under the agreement. In addition, the
interest rate hedge agreement is with certain of the participating banks under
the Company's Senior Credit Facilities thereby reducing the exposure to credit
loss. The Company has policies regarding the financial stability and credit
standing of the major counterparties. Nonperformance by the counterparties is
not anticipated nor would it have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

8. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

     Charter Investment, Inc. (Charter Investment) provides management services
to the Company including centralized customer billing services, and data
processing and related support. Costs for these services are charged directly to
the Company's operating subsidiaries and are included in operating costs. These
billings are determined based on the number of basic customers. Charter
Investment utilizes a combination of excess insurance coverage and
self-insurance programs for its medical, dental and workers' compensation
claims. Charges are made to the Company as determined by independent actuaries
at the present value of the actuarially computed present and future liabilities
for such benefits. Depreciation and amortization incurred by Charter Investment
and Charter have been allocated to the Company based on the number of the basic
customers. Such costs totaled $44 for the period from November 15, 1999, through
December 31, 1999, are reflected as a capital contribution. Management believes
that costs incurred by Charter Investment on the Company's behalf and included
in the accompanying financial statements are not materially different than costs
the Company would have incurred as a stand-alone entity.

     Charter, an entity controlled by Paul G. Allen, was named manager of CC V
Holdings pursuant to the terms of the limited liability company agreement for CC
V Holdings dated as of November 15, 1999. Furthermore, Charter now manages and
operates the Company's cable systems pursuant to a Management Agreement entered
into with certain subsidiaries of CC V Holdings. The term of the management
agreement is 10 years, commencing on November 15, 1999. Charter is entitled to
reimbursement for all expenses, costs, losses and liabilities or damages
incurred by Charter in connection with the performance of its services. Payment
of the management fee is permitted under the Company's credit agreement, but
ranks below the Company's senior debt and shall not be paid except to the extent
permitted under the Senior Credit Facilities. Such costs totaled $501 for the
period from November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999, and are recorded in
corporate expense charges-related parties in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. Deferred management fees at December 31, 1999, are $262.

9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN:

     Avalon Michigan had a qualified savings plan under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code (the "Plan"). In connection with the Charter Acquisition,
the Plan's assets were frozen as of November 14, 1999, and employees became
fully vested. Effective January 1, 2000, the Company's employees with two months
of service are eligible to participate in the Charter Communications, Inc.
401(k) Plan (the "Charter Plan").

                                      F-184


Employees that qualify for participation in the Charter Plan can contribute up
to 15% of their salary, on a before tax basis, subject to a maximum contribution
limit as determined by the Internal Revenue Service.

10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

     The Company rents poles from utility companies for use in its operations.
While rental agreements are generally short-term, the Company anticipates such
rentals will continue in the future. The Company also leases office facilities
and various equipment under month-to-month operating leases. Rent expense was
$1,506 and $212 for the periods from January 1, 1999, through November 14, 1999,
and from November 15, 1999, through December 31, 1999, respectively. Rental
commitments are expected to continue at approximately the same level for the
foreseeable future, including pole rental commitments which are cancelable.

Regulation in the Cable Television Industry

     The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at the
federal, local and, in some instances, state levels. The Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Cable Act"), the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act" and together with
the 1984 Cable Act, the "Cable Acts"), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(the "1996 Telecom Act"), establish a national policy to guide the development
and regulation of cable television systems. The Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) has principal responsibility for implementing the policies of
the Cable Acts. Many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of
judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Legislation
and regulations continue to change, and the Company cannot predict the impact of
future developments on the cable television industry.

     The 1992 Cable Act and the FCC's rules implementing that act generally have
increased the administrative and operational expenses of cable television
systems and have resulted in additional regulatory oversight by the FCC and
local or state franchise authorities. The Cable Acts and the corresponding FCC
regulations have established rate regulations.

     The 1992 Cable Act permits certified local franchising authorities to order
refunds of basic service tier rates paid in the previous twelve-month period
determined to be in excess of the maximum permitted rates. As of December 31,
1999, the amount refunded by the Company has been insignificant. The Company may
be required to refund additional amounts in the future.

     The Company believes that it has complied in all material respects with the
provisions of the 1992 Cable Act, including the rate setting provisions
promulgated by the FCC. However, in jurisdictions that have chosen not to
certify, refunds covering the previous twelve-month period may be ordered upon
certification if the Company is unable to justify its basic rates. As of
December 31, 1999, approximately 26% of the Company's local franchising
authorities are certified to regulate basic tier rates. The Company is unable to
estimate at this time the amount of refunds, if any, that may be payable by the
Company in the event certain of its rates are successfully challenged by
franchising authorities or found to be unreasonable by the FCC. The Company does
not believe that the amount of any such refunds would have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the
Company.

     The 1996 Telecom Act, among other things, immediately deregulated the rates
for certain small cable operators and in certain limited circumstances rates on
the basic service tier, and as of March 31, 1999, deregulated rates on the cable
programming service tier (CPST). The FCC has taken the position that it will
still adjudicate pending CPST complaints but will strictly limit its review, and
possible refund orders, to the time period predating the sunset date, March 31,
1999. The Company does not believe any adjudications regarding their pre-sunset
complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

     A number of states subject cable television systems to the jurisdiction of
centralized state governmental agencies, some of which impose regulation of a
character similar to that of a public utility. State governmental

                                      F-185


agencies are required to follow FCC rules when prescribing rate regulation, and
thus, state regulation of cable television rates is not allowed to be more
restrictive than the federal or local regulation.

Litigation

     In connection with the Company's acquisition of Mercom, former Mercom
shareholders holding approximately 731,894 Mercom common shares (approximately
15.3% of all outstanding Mercom common shares) gave notice of their election to
exercise appraisal rights as provided by Delaware law. On July 2, 1999, former
Mercom shareholders holding 535,501 shares of Mercom common stock filed a
petition for appraisal of stock in the Delaware Chancery Court. With respect to
209,893 of the total number of shares for which the Company received notice, the
notice provided to the Company was received from beneficial holders of Mercom
shares who were not holders of record. The Company believes that the notice with
respect to these shares did not comply with Delaware law and is ineffective.

     The Company cannot predict at this time the effect of the elections to
exercise appraisal rights on the Company since the Company does not know the
extent to which these former Mercom shareholders will continue to pursue
appraisal rights under Delaware law or choose to abandon these efforts and seek
to accept the consideration payable in the Mercom merger. If these former Mercom
shareholders continue to pursue their appraisal rights and if a Delaware court
were to find that the fair value of the Mercom common shares, exclusive of any
element of value arising from our acquisition of Mercom, exceeded $12.00 per
share, the Company would have to pay the additional amount for each Mercom
common share subject to the appraisal proceedings together with a fair rate of
interest. The Company could be ordered by the Delaware court also to pay
reasonable attorney's fees and the fees and expenses of experts for the
shareholders. In addition, the Company would have to pay their own litigation
costs. The Company has already provided for the consideration of $12.00 per
Mercom common share due under the terms of the merger with Mercom with respect
to these shares but has not provided for any additional amounts or costs. The
Company can provide no assurance as to what a Delaware court would find in any
appraisal proceeding or when this matter will be resolved. Accordingly, the
Company cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome would have no material
adverse impact on the Company.

11. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET IMPLEMENTED:

     The Company is required to adopt Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities (SFAS No. 133) in 2001. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument (including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded on the
consolidated balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair
value and that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting
for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related
results on the hedged item in the income statement, and requires that a company
must formally document, designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions
that receive hedge accounting. The adoption of SFAS No. 133 is not expected to
have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-186


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Common Member and Manager
BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Bresnan
Communications Group LLC and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1999,
and the related consolidated statements of operations and Members' Equity
(Deficit) and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 1999. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Bresnan Communications Group LLC's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bresnan
Communications Group LLC, as of December 31, 1998 and 1999, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

                                          /s/ KPMG LLP

Denver, Colorado
January 28, 2000, except as to Note 8,
which is as of February 14, 2000

                                      F-187


                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1999



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-188


                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND MEMBERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1998 AND 1999



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-189


                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1998 AND 1999



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-190


                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1998 AND 1999

                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

(1) BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Bresnan Communications Group LLC and its subsidiaries ("BCG" or the
"Company") are wholly owned by Bresnan Communications Company Limited
Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership ("BCCLP"). BCG is a Delaware limited
liability corporation formed on August 5, 1998 for the purpose of acting as
co-issuer with its wholly-owned subsidiary, Bresnan Capital Corporation ("BCC"),
of $170,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity of 8% Senior Notes and
$275,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity of 9.25% Senior Discount Notes,
both due in 2009 (collectively the "Notes"). Also, at this time, BTC borrowed
approximately $508,000 of $650,000 available under a new credit facility (the
"Senior Credit Facility"). (See Note 4, Debt.) Prior to the issuance of the
Notes on February 2, 1999, BCCLP completed the terms of a contribution agreement
dated June 3, 1998, as amended, whereby certain affiliates of AT&T Broadband and
Internet Services, formerly Tele-Communications, Inc. ("TCI"), contributed
certain cable television systems along with assumed TCI debt of approximately
$708,854 to BCCLP which was repaid with the proceeds of the Notes and the Senior
Credit Facility. In addition, Blackstone BC Capital Partners L.P. ("Blackstone")
and affiliates contributed $136,500 to BCCLP. Upon completion of the Notes
offering on February 2, 1999 BCCLP contributed all of its assets and liabilities
to BCG, which formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Bresnan Telecommunications
Company LLC ("BTC"), into which it contributed all of its assets and certain
liabilities. The above noted contributed assets and liabilities were accounted
for at predecessor cost because of the common ownership and control of TCI and
have been reflected in the accompanying financial statements in a manner similar
to a pooling of interests.

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of BCG and those
of its wholly owned subsidiary, BTC, subsequent to the aforementioned formation
transaction.

     The Company owns and operates cable television systems in small- and
medium-sized communities in the midwestern United States.

     Prior to the transactions noted above, TCI and William J. Bresnan and
certain entities which he controls (collectively, the "Bresnan Entities"), held
78.4% and 21.6% interests, respectively, in BCCLP. As of February 2, 1999, TCI,
Blackstone and the Bresnan Entities held 50.00%, 39.79% and 10.21% interests,
respectively. Subsequent to December 31, 1999, these interests were sold to
Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC. (See Note 8, Sale of the Company.)

(2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     (A) CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash equivalents consist of investments which are readily convertible into
cash and have maturities of three months or less at the time of acquisition.

     (B) TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

     Receivables are reflected net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Such
allowance at December 31, 1998 and 1999 was not significant.

     (C) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment is stated at cost, including acquisition costs
allocated to tangible assets acquired. Construction costs, including interest
during construction and applicable overhead, are capitalized. During 1997, 1998
and 1999, interest capitalized was $324,000, $47,000 and $1,027,000
respectively.

                                      F-191

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

     Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis using estimated useful
lives of 3 to 15 years for distribution systems and 3 to 40 years for support
equipment and buildings.

     Repairs and maintenance are charged to operations, and renewals and
additions are capitalized. At the time of ordinary retirements, sales or other
dispositions of property, the original cost and cost of removal of such property
are charged to accumulated depreciation, and salvage, if any, is credited
thereto. Gains or losses are only recognized in connection with the sales of
properties in their entirety.

     (D) FRANCHISE COSTS

     Franchise costs represent the difference between the cost of acquiring
cable television systems and amounts allocated to their tangible assets. Such
amounts are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years. Costs
incurred in negotiating and renewing franchise agreements are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the franchise, generally 10 to 20 years.

     (E) IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     Management periodically reviews the carrying amounts of property and
equipment and identifiable intangible assets to determine whether current events
or circumstances warrant adjustments to such carrying amounts. If an impairment
adjustment is deemed necessary, such loss is measured by the amount that the
carrying value of such assets exceeds their fair value. Considerable management
judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of assets. Accordingly, actual
results could vary significantly from such estimates. Assets to be disposed of
are carried at the lower of their financial statement carrying amount or fair
value less costs to sell.

     (F) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Company has entered into fixed interest rate exchange agreements
("Interest Rate Swaps") which are used to manage interest rate risk arising from
its financial liabilities. Such Interest Rate Swaps are accounted for as a
hedge; accordingly, amounts receivable or payable under the Interest Rate Swaps
are recognized as adjustments to interest expense. These instruments are not
used for trading purposes.

     The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), which is effective for all fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring that
all derivative instruments be reported as assets or liabilities and measured at
their fair values. Under SFAS 133, changes in the fair values of derivative
instruments are recognized immediately in earnings unless those instruments
qualify as hedges of the (1) fair values of existing assets, liabilities, or
firm commitments, (2) variability of cash flows of forecasted transactions, or
(3) foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations.
Although management has not completed its assessment of the impact of SFAS 133
on its combined results of operations and financial position, management
estimates that the impact of SFAS 133 will not be material.

     (G) INCOME TAXES

     The majority of BCG's net assets were historically held in partnerships. In
addition, BCG has been formed as a limited liability company, to be treated for
tax purposes as a flow-through entity. Accordingly, no provision has been made
for income tax expense or benefit in the accompanying combined financial
statements as the earnings or losses of Bresnan Communications Group LLC will be
reported in the respective tax returns of BCG's members. (See Note 5, Income
Taxes).

                                      F-192

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

     (H) REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Cable revenue for customer fees, equipment rental, advertising,
pay-per-view programming and revenue sharing agreements is recognized in the
period that services are delivered. Installation revenue is recognized in the
period the installation services are provided to the extent of direct selling
and installation costs. Any remaining amount is deferred and recognized over the
estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the
cable distribution system.

     (I) STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

     Except for acquisition transactions described in Note 3, transactions
effected through Members' equity (deficit) have been considered constructive
cash receipts and payments for purposes of the statement of cash flows.

     (J) ADVERTISING COSTS

     All advertising costs are expensed as incurred.

     (K) RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain of the prior year comparative figures have been reclassified to
conform to the presentation adopted in the current year.

     (L) ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

(3) ACQUISITIONS AND SYSTEM DISPOSITIONS

     In 1998, the Company acquired two cable systems which were accounted for
under the purchase method. The purchase prices were allocated to the assets
acquired in relation to their fair values as increases in property and equipment
of $7,099 and franchise costs of $21,651.

     During 1998, the Company also disposed of two cable systems for gross
proceeds of $58,949, which resulted in gain on sale of cable television systems
of $27,027. In connection with one of the dispositions, a third party
intermediary received $47,199 of cash that was designated to be reinvested in
certain identified assets for income tax purposes and accordingly recognized as
restricted cash on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1998
and 1999.

     In 1999, BCG acquired three cable systems that were accounted for under the
purchase method. The purchase prices were allocated to the assets acquired in
relation to their fair values as increases to property and equipment of $24,098
and franchise costs of $54,582. In connection with two of the acquisitions, the
aforementioned third party intermediary disbursed $46,999 of cash to complete
the reinvestment in certain identified assets for income tax purposes.

     Finally, in 1999, BCG disposed of cable systems for gross proceeds of
$4,956, which resulted in a gain of $556.

                                      F-193

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(3) ACQUISITIONS AND SYSTEM DISPOSITIONS -- (CONTINUED)
     The results of operations of these cable television systems have been
included in the accompanying combined statements of operations from their dates
of acquisition or their disposition, as applicable. Pro forma information on the
acquisitions and dispositions has not been presented because the effects were
not significant.

(4) DEBT

     Debt is summarized as follows:



- ---------------
(a) The Senior Credit Facility represents borrowings under a $650,000 senior
    reducing revolving credit and term loan facility as documented in the loan
    agreement as of February 2, 1999. The Senior Credit Facility has a current
    available commitment of $650,000 of which $534,200 is outstanding at
    December 31, 1999. The Senior Credit Facility provides for three tranches, a
    revolving loan tranche for $150,000 (the "Revolving Loan"), a term loan
    tranche of $328,000 (the "A Term Loan" and together with the Revolving Loan,
    "Facility A") and a term loan tranche of $172,000 (the "Facility B").

    The commitments under the Senior Credit Facility will reduce commencing with
    the quarter ending March 31, 2002. Facility A permanently reduces in
    quarterly amounts ranging from 2.5% to 7.5% of the Facility A amount
    starting March 31, 2002 and matures approximately eight and one half years
    after February 2, 1999. Facility B is also to be repaid in quarterly
    installments of .25% of the Facility B amount beginning in March 2002 and
    matures approximately nine years after February 2, 1999, on which date all
    remaining amounts of Facility B will be due and payable. Additional
    reductions of the Senior Credit Facility will also be required upon certain
    asset sales, subject to the right of the Company and its subsidiaries to
    reinvest asset sale proceeds under certain circumstances. The interest rate
    options include a LIBOR option and a Prime Rate option plus applicable
    margin rates based on the Company's total leverage ratio, as defined. The
    rate applicable to balances outstanding at December 31, 1999 ranged from
    7.57% to 9.00%. Covenants of the Senior Credit Facility require, among other
    conditions, the maintenance of specific levels of the ratio of cash flows to
    future debt and interest expense and certain limitations on additional
    investments, indebtedness, capital expenditures, asset sales and affiliate
    transactions. In addition, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee
    on the unused revolver portion of Facility A which will accrue at a rate
    ranging from .25% to .375% per annum, depending on the Company's total
    leverage ratio, as defined.

(b) On February 2, 1999, the Company issued $170,000 aggregate principal amount
    senior notes payable (the "Senior Notes"). In addition, on the same date,
    the Company issued $275,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity of senior
    discount notes, (the "Senior Discount Notes") for approximately $175,021
    gross proceeds (collectively the "Notes").

                                      F-194

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(4) DEBT -- (CONTINUED)
    The Senior Notes are unsecured and will mature on February 1, 2009. The
    Senior Notes bear interest at 8% per annum payable semi-annually on February
    1 and August 1 of each year, commencing August 1, 1999.

    The Senior Discount Notes are unsecured and will mature on February 1, 2009.
    The Senior Discount Notes were issued at a discount to their aggregate
    principal amount at maturity and will accrete at a rate of approximately
    9.25% per annum, compounded semi-annually, to an aggregate principal amount
    of $275,000 on February 1, 2004. Subsequent to February 1, 2004, the Senior
    Discount Notes will bear interest at a rate of 9.25% per annum payable
    semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing
    August 1, 2004.

    The Company may elect, upon not less than 60 days prior notice, to commence
    the accrual of interest on all outstanding Senior Discount Notes on or after
    February 1, 2002, in which case the outstanding principal amount at maturity
    of each Senior Discount Note will on such commencement date be reduced to
    the accreted value of such Senior Discount Note as of such date and interest
    shall be payable with respect to the Senior Discount Notes on each February
    and August 1 thereafter.

    The Company may not redeem the Notes prior to February 1, 2004 except that
    prior to February 1, 2002, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the Senior
    Notes and Senior Discount Notes at redemption prices equal to 108% and
    109.25% of the applicable principal amount and accreted value, respectively,
    with proceeds of an equity offering. Subsequent to February 1, 2004, the
    Company may redeem the Notes at redemption prices declining annually from
    approximately 104% of the principal amount or accreted value.

    Bresnan Communications Group LLC and its wholly owned subsidiary Bresnan
    Capital Corporation are the sole obligors of the Senior Notes and Senior
    Discount Notes. Bresnan Communications Group LLC has no other assets or
    liabilities other than its investment in its wholly owned subsidiary Bresnan
    Telecommunications Company LLC. Bresnan Capital Corporation has no other
    assets or liabilities.

    Upon change of control of the Company, the holders of the notes have the
    right to require the Company to purchase the outstanding notes at a price
    equal to 101% of the principal amount or accreted value plus accrued and
    unpaid interest. (See Note 8 "Sale of the Company").

(c) The notes payable to banks represented borrowings under a $250,000 senior
    unsecured reducing revolving credit and term loan facility (the "Bank
    Facility") as documented in the loan agreement as amended and restated as of
    August 5, 1998. The Bank Facility called for a current available commitment
    of $250,000 of which $209,000 was outstanding at December 31, 1998. The
    rates applicable to balances outstanding at December 31, 1998 ranged from
    6.815% to 8.000%. The Bank Facility was repaid on February 2, 1999. (See
    Note 1, Basis of Presentation.)

(d) The note payable to a partner was comprised of a $25,000 subordinated note
    of which $22,100 was outstanding at December 31, 1998. The note, dated May
    12, 1988, was junior and subordinate to the Bank Facility. Interest was
    provided for at the prime rate (as defined) and was payable quarterly, to
    the extent allowed under the bank subordination agreement, or at the
    maturity date of the note, which was the earlier of April 30, 2001 or the
    first business day following the full repayment of the entire amount due
    under the notes payable to banks. The interest rate at December 31, 1998 was
    7.75%. This note was repaid on February 2, 1999. (See Note 1, Basis of
    Presentation.)

     The Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively fix
     or set maximum interest rates on a portion of its floating rate long-term
     debt. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
     by the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements.

                                      F-195

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(4) DEBT -- (CONTINUED)
     At December 31, 1999, such interest rate swap agreements effectively fixed
     or set a maximum LIBOR base interest rates between 8.0% and 8.02% on an
     aggregate notional principal amount of $50,000, which rates would become
     effective upon the occurrence of certain events. The effect of the interest
     rate swap on interest expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999
     was not significant. The expiration dates of the interest rate swaps ranges
     from April 1, 2000 to April 3, 2000. The difference between the fair market
     value and book value of long-term debt and the interest rate swaps at
     December 31, 1998 and 1999 is not significant.

(5) INCOME TAXES

     Taxable earnings differ from those reported in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations due primarily to differences in
depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives under
regulations prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service. At December 31, 1999,
the financial statement carrying amount of the Company's assets exceeded its tax
basis by approximately $431 million.

(6) TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

     BCG and its predecessor purchased, at TCI's cost, substantially all of its
pay television and other programming from affiliates of TCI. Charges for such
programming were $48,588, $58,562 and $62,502 for the years ended December 31,
1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, and are included in programming expenses in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

     Prior to February 2, 1999, certain affiliates of the partners of BCCLP
provided administrative services to BCG and assumed managerial responsibility of
BCG's cable television system operations and construction. As compensation for
these services, BCG paid a monthly fee calculated pursuant to certain agreed
upon formulas. Subsequent to the TCI Transaction on February 2, 1999, certain
affiliates of a partner of BCCLP provide administrative services and have
assumed managerial responsibilities of BCG. As compensation for these services
BCG pays a quarterly fee equal to approximately 3% of gross revenues. Such
aggregate charges totaled $11,801, $13,086 and $10,498 and have been included in
selling, general and administrative expenses for years ended December 31, 1997,
1998 and 1999, respectively.

(7) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the
"1992 Cable Act") imposed certain rate regulations on the cable television
industry. Under the 1992 Cable Act, all cable systems are subject to rate
regulation, unless they face "effective competition," as defined by the 1992
Cable Act and expanded in the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"),
in their local franchise area.

     Although the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") has established
regulations required by the 1992 Cable Act, local government units (commonly
referred to as local franchising authorities) are primarily responsible for
administering the regulation of a cable system's basic service tier ("BST"). The
FCC itself directly administered rate regulation of any cable programming
service tier ("CPST"). The FCC's authority to regulate CPST rates expired on
March 31, 1999. The FCC has taken the position that it will still adjudicate
CPST complaints filed after this sunset date (but no later than 180 days after
the last CPST rate increase imposed prior to March 31, 1999), and will strictly
limit its review (and possible refund orders) to the time period predating the
sunset date.

     Under the FCC's rate regulations, most cable systems were required to
reduce their BST and CPST rates in 1993 and 1994, and have since had their rate
increases governed by a complicated price structure that allows for the recovery
of inflation and certain associated costs, as well as providing some incentive
for

                                      F-196

                        BRESNAN COMMUNICATIONS GROUP LLC

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(7) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES -- (CONTINUED)
expanding channel carriage. Operators also have the opportunity to bypass this
"benchmark" regulatory structure in favor of the traditional "cost-of-service"
regulation in cases where the latter methodology appears favorable. Premium
cable service offered on a per-channel or per-program basis remain unregulated,
as do affirmatively marketed packages consisting entirely of new programming
product.

     The management of BCG believes that it has complied in all material
respects with the provisions of the 1992 Cable Act and the 1996 Act, including
its rate setting provisions. If, as a result of the review process, a system
cannot substantiate its rates, it could be required to retroactively reduce its
rates to the appropriate benchmark and refund the excess portion of rates
received. Any refunds of the excess portion of CPST rates would be retroactive
to the date of complaint. Any refunds of the excess portion of BST or equipment
rates would be retroactive to one year prior to the implementation of the rate
reductions.

     Certain plaintiffs have filed or threatened separate class action
complaints against certain of the systems of BCG, alleging that the systems'
practice of assessing an administrative fee to the subscribers whose payments
are delinquent constitutes an invalid liquidated damage provision and a breach
of contract, and violates local consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs seek
recovery of all late fees paid to the subject systems as a class purporting to
consist of all subscribers who were assessed such fees during the applicable
limitation period, plus attorney fees and costs.

     BCG has additional contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings and
other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. Although it is
possible that BCG may incur losses upon conclusion of these matters and the
matters referred to above, an estimate of any loss or range of loss cannot
presently be made. Based upon the facts available, management believes that,
although no assurance can be given as to the outcome of these actions, the
ultimate disposition should not have material adverse effect upon the combined
financial condition of BCG.

     On January 12, 2000, the Company also purchased two cable systems from one
operator. The system in Wisconsin was a stock purchase and the system in
Minnesota was an asset purchase. The total purchase price of these transactions
was approximately $36,232, funded by cash flow from operations and additional
borrowings.

     The Company also entered into a letter of intent with a cable operator
pursuant to which the Company acquires a small cable television system in
Minnesota. The transaction would result in a net cost of approximately $13,000
and will be funded by cash flow from operations and additional borrowings.

     BCG leases business offices, has entered into pole attachment agreements
and uses certain equipment under lease arrangements. Rental expense under such
arrangements amounted to $3,221, $2,833 and $3,547 during the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

     Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases are
estimated to approximate $2,240 per year for each of the next five years.

     It is expected that, in the normal course of business, expiring leases will
be renewed or replaced by leases on the same or similar properties.

(8) SALE OF THE COMPANY

     In June 1999, the Partners of BCCLP entered into an agreement to sell all
of their partnership interests in BCCLP to Charter Communications Holding
Company, LLC for a purchase price of approximately $3.1 billion in cash and
equity instruments of Charter and its subsidiaries (including the Company) which
will be reduced by the assumption of BCCLP's debt at closing. In conjunction
with the sale of the partnership interests, Charter assumed the Company's
outstanding indebtedness under the Senior Credit Facility (See Note 4, Debt.)
The accompanying financial statements do not reflect the effect of the
adjustments, if any, resulting from the sale of the partnership's interests.

                                      F-197

