
10-K405
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                            ------------------------

For the year ended December 31, 1999                 Commission File No. 0-25581

                           priceline.com Incorporated
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                    0-25581                     06-1528493
(State or other Jurisdiction  (Commission File Number)          (IRS Employer
     of Incorporation)                                       Identification No.)

800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut                         06854
     (Address of Principal Office)                                 (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (203) 299-8000

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                    Common Stock, par value $0.008 per share

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. Yes [X] No [ ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates
        of the registrant as of March 10, 2000................$5,664,836,331

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of
        March 10, 2000...........................................170,115,752



                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      The information required by Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated herein by reference from the
registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of
stockholders to be held on April 24, 2000, which definitive proxy statement was
filed on March 27, 2000 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                           priceline.com Incorporated

                                    Form 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999

                                      INDEX

                                                                          PAGE
PART I
Item 1.   Business............................................................ 1
Item 2.   Properties..........................................................22
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...................................................22
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. ...............23

PART II
Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
           Stockholder Matters................................................23
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.............................................24
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations..............................................24
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk...........35
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. .......................35
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure...............................................35

PART III
Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..................35
Item 11.  Executive Compensation..............................................35
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management......35
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions......................35

PART IV
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.....36

Signatures....................................................................39

Financial Statements..........................................................41


                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

General

      Priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com," the "Company," "we," "us" or
"our") has pioneered a unique e-commerce pricing system known as a "demand
collection system" that enables consumers to use the Internet to save money on a
wide range of products and services while enabling sellers to generate
incremental revenue. Using a simple and compelling consumer proposition - Name
Your Own Price(sm) - priceline.com collects consumer demand, in the form of
individual customer offers guaranteed by a credit card, for a particular product
or service at a price set by the customer. Priceline.com then either
communicates that demand directly to participating sellers or accesses
participating sellers' private databases to determine whether priceline.com can
fulfill the customer's offer. Consumers agree to hold their offers open for a
specified period of time and, once fulfilled, offers cannot be canceled.
Priceline.com benefits consumers by enabling them to save money, while at the
same time benefitting sellers by providing them with an effective revenue
management tool capable of identifying and capturing incremental revenues. By
requiring consumers to be flexible with respect to brands, sellers and product
features, priceline.com enables sellers to generate incremental revenue without
disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.

      Priceline.com believes that its unique business model can be applied to a
broad range of products and services. The Company believes that this broad
applicability of its business model, its first mover advantage, the strength of
the priceline.com brand, its network of seller participants, its proprietary
software systems and its intellectual property strategies provide it with
significant competitive advantages. Priceline.com's strategy is to increase its
revenues in existing products and services by improving product offerings,
expand its Name Your Own Price(sm) service to new products and services and
offer its services in international markets through investments in independent
licensee companies.

      Priceline.com commenced its service on April 6, 1998 with the sale of
leisure airline tickets and at December 31, 1999 offered services for leisure
airline tickets, hotel rooms, mortgages and new automobiles. In December 1999
and February 2000, the Company launched two different rental car offerings. In
the near term, the Company intends to launch a Name Your Own Price(sm) service
for international and domestic long distance service. In addition, the Company's
licensee, Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc., launched a Name Your Own Price(sm)
service for groceries in the fourth quarter of 1999. Another licensee,
Priceline Perfect Yard Sale, Inc., launched on a test basis in the first quarter
of 2000 a consumer-to-consumer based Name Your Own Price(sm) service for the
sale of quality used goods over the Internet.

      For the year ended December 31, 1999, priceline.com had revenues of $482.4
million. The revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999 were comprised
primarily of: (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of airline
tickets and hotel rooms; (2) fee income from adaptive marketing programs offered
in connection with priceline.com's product offerings; (3) ancillary revenues
consisting primarily of reservation booking fees and customer processing fees;
and (4) fee income from priceline.com's home financing and auto programs.

      Priceline.com was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997
and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998. The Company
completed its initial public offering in April 1999, and its comon stock is
listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "PCLN." Priceline.com
recently completed the relocation of its principal corporate offices from
Stamford, Connecticut to Norwalk, Connecticut.

The priceline.com Business Model

      Priceline.com has developed a unique pricing system known as a "demand
collection system" that uses the information sharing and communications power of
the Internet to create a new way of pricing products and services. Priceline.com
creates a new balance between the interests of buyers, who are willing to accept
trade-offs in order to save money, and sellers, who are prepared to generate
incremental revenue by selling products at below


retail prices, provided that they can do so without disrupting their existing
distribution channels or retail pricing structures. Priceline.com's demand
collection system allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to pay
when submitting an offer for a particular product or service within a specified
range of substitutability. Priceline.com then either communicates these offers
to participating sellers or accesses participating sellers' private databases to
determine whether it can fulfill the customer's offer. Consumers agree to hold
their offers open for a specified period of time to enable priceline.com to
fulfill their offers from inventory provided by participating sellers. Once
fulfilled, offers generally cannot be canceled. This system uses the flexibility
of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell excess
inventory or capacity or increase sales velocity. Priceline.com believes that
its demand collection system addresses limitations inherent in traditional
seller-driven pricing mechanisms in a manner that offers substantial benefits to
both buyers and sellers. The principal advantages of the priceline.com system
include the following:

      o     Cost Savings and Preferred Method Of Purchasing For Consumers.
            Priceline.com's Name Your Own Price(sm) demand collection system
            allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.
            Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands, product
            features and/or sellers in return for prices that are lower than
            those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail
            distribution channels. Priceline.com believes that in many cases,
            such as purchasing a new car or obtaining a home mortgage, the
            Internet represents a preferred method to traditional retail
            channels.

      o     Incremental Revenue For Sellers. Sellers use priceline.com as a
            revenue management tool to generate incremental revenue without
            disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing
            structures. Priceline.com requires consumers to be flexible with
            respect to brands and product features. As a result, sellers' brands
            are not revealed to customers prior to the consummation of a
            transaction, thereby protecting their brand integrity. This
            shielding of brand identity enables sellers to sell products and
            services at discounted prices without cannibalizing their own retail
            sales by publicly announcing discount prices and without competing
            against their own distributors.

      o     Proprietary Seller Networks. Priceline.com assembles proprietary
            networks of industry leading sellers that represent high quality
            brands. By establishing attractive networks of seller participants
            with reputations for quality, scale and national presence,
            priceline.com fosters increased participation by both buyers and
            sellers.

      o     Guaranteed Consumer Demand For Sellers. Each customer who makes an
            offer through priceline.com must guarantee his or her offer with a
            major credit card. The guaranteed aspect of the demand is attractive
            to sellers because they know that priceline.com offers them a
            confirmed sale.

      o     Broad Applications Across Multiple Markets. In contrast to many
            e-commerce companies that are building brands in vertical categories
            or groups of related categories, priceline.com believes that its
            e-commerce business model has horizontal application to products and
            services in a wide range of industries. Priceline.com further
            believes that the broad applicability of the priceline.com service
            and the strength of the priceline.com brand afford it the
            opportunity to obtain substantial economies of scale and offer the
            potential for priceline.com to become a major new channel of
            distribution.

The priceline.com Strategy

      Priceline.com's objective is to continue to expand the priceline.com
business and to operate priceline.com's demand collection system as a leading
source for the purchase of products and services on the Internet. The key
elements of priceline.com's strategy are as follows:




      o     Strengthen the priceline.com Brand. The Company intends to expand
            consumer recognition of priceline.com as the leading consumer brand
            for buyer-driven commerce over the Internet. To achieve this
            objective, priceline.com intends to continue to pursue an aggressive
            brand development strategy through mass market and targeted
            advertising and promotions, press coverage and strong word-of-mouth
            support. While priceline.com is already one of the most recognized
            e-commerce brands among adult Americans, priceline.com believes that
            it can expand the public's association with the priceline.com Name
            Your Own Price(sm) proposition to a broad range of products and
            services. See "- Marketing and Brand Awareness."

      o     Leverage the priceline.com Brand Over Numerous Products and
            Services. Priceline.com intends to continue to leverage the
            priceline.com brand across numerous products and services to achieve
            significant revenue scale and growth. In contrast to most e-commerce
            businesses that operate in one or two "vertical" markets,
            priceline.com is a "horizontal" commerce system that can benefit
            both buyers and sellers across a broad range of products and
            services. Priceline.com's strategy is to make available multiple
            product and service offerings at a single Web site under a common
            brand to take advantage of these market opportunities. Priceline.com
            intends to expand directly in certain vertical markets and license
            its business model and name to independent licensees in other
            markets. Priceline.com and its licensees have launched or expanded
            offerings in several new categories over the past twelve months and
            these efforts will continue. See "- Products and Services."

      o     Enhance Site Functionality and Increase Consumer Usage.
            Priceline.com intends to continue to frequently update and enhance
            the features of the priceline.com service. Priceline.com continually
            monitors feedback from consumers and frequently adds new features to
            further refine and simplify the buying process. Priceline.com also
            receives offers by telephone and provides customer service by
            telephone and e-mail to assist consumers in the offer process. By
            continuing to increase the functionality of the service and enhance
            the consumer experience, priceline.com believes that it will
            continue to increase customer usage and loyalty.

      o     Pursue International Expansion. Priceline.com believes that the
            international scope of the Internet and the global demand for the
            types of products and services available through priceline.com
            presents opportunities to expand its service internationally.
            Priceline has announced initiatives in Australia/New Zealand and
            Asia and intends to pursue additional overseas opportunities. See "-
            Products and Services - International Expansion."

Products and Services

      Priceline.com launched the priceline.com service on April 6, 1998 with the
sale of leisure airline tickets. The priceline.com service now includes the sale
of new automobiles, hotel room reservations, rental cars and home financing
services. Priceline.com also intends to expand its product offerings to include:
other leisure travel products such as cruises; time shares and vacation
packages; pre-paid long distance and other telecommunications services; credit
cards; and automobile, personal insurance and other financial services products.
In addition, priceline.com has announced initiatives to expand the priceline.com
service internationally.




      Travel Services

      Leisure Airline Tickets. Priceline.com commenced its service with the sale
of leisure airline tickets. The number of airlines participating in
priceline.com's airline ticket service has increased to a total of 10 domestic
airlines and 20 international airlines.

      Consumers can make offers to purchase airline tickets through the
priceline.com Web site or the 1-800-PRICELINE(sm) call center. The vast majority
of all airline ticket requests are made through priceline.com's Web site. To
make an offer, a customer specifies (1) the origin and destination of the trip,
(2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price
the customer is willing to pay and (4) the customer's valid credit card to
guarantee the offer. When making an offer, consumers must agree to:

            o     fly on any major full-service airline;

            o     leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m.on their
                  desired dates of departure and return;

            o     purchase only round trip economy class tickets between the
                  same two points of departure and return;

            o     accept at least one stop or connection;

            o     receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and

            o     accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed.

      When priceline.com receives an offer, it determines whether to fulfill the
offer based upon the available fares, rules and inventory provided to
priceline.com by its participating airlines. A customer is notified whether his
or her offer has been accepted within one hour. If priceline.com is able to
obtain an airline ticket within the parameters specified by the customer, the
customer's offer is accepted and his or her credit card is charged the offer
price, plus applicable taxes, surcharges and standard processing fees, and the
ticket is delivered to the customer by the delivery method specified by the
customer. As with pricelines.com's other travel products, once a customer's
offer for airline tickets is accepted, that offer cannot be withdrawn or
cancelled.

      Hotels. In October 1998, priceline.com launched its Name Your Own
Price(sm) travel service for hotel room reservations. Priceline.com's hotel room
reservation service currently is available in substantially all major cities and
metropolitan areas in the United States. Seller participants in the hotel room
reservation service include several of the most significant national hotel
chains as well as several important real estate investment trusts and
independent property owners. Hotels participate by filing private discounted
rates with related inventory control rules in priceline.com's private database
in a central reservation system for hotel rooms. These rates generally are not
available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount
distributors who sell to the public.

      Priceline.com's hotel room reservation service operates in a manner
similar to its airline ticket service. Consumers are required to accept certain
trade-offs with respect to brands or product features in return for saving
money. For example, consumers are required to accept a reservation in any hotel
within a specified geographic




area within a designated "class" of service (1, 2, 3, 4 or 5-star) and must
accept limitations on changes and cancellations. As with the airline ticket
service, the target market for priceline.com's hotel room reservation service is
the leisure travel market.

      Rental Cars. Priceline.com offers two different rental car services. In
December 1999, priceline.com launched its Insiders Rates(sm) service and, in
February 2000, priceline.com launched its Name Your Own Price(sm) service.
Priceline.com's rental car services are currently available in substantially all
major United States markets. Three of the top five brand name rental car
companies in the United States are seller participants in priceline.com's rental
car program.

      Under priceline.com's Insiders Rates(sm) service, participating car rental
companies offer priceline.com customers who have successfully purchased an
airline ticket from priceline.com rates on car rentals in connection
with a customer's planned travel arrangements. An offer is provided to a
customer by e-mail and on priceline.com's Web site when a customer checks the
status of his or her request.

      Priceline.com's Name Your Own Price(sm) rental car service operates in a
manner similar to its airline ticket and hotel reservation services. Consumers
can access priceline.com's Web site and select where and when they want to rent
a car, what kind of car they want to rent (i.e., economy, compact, mid-size,
SUV) and the price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and
surcharges. When priceline.com receives an offer, it determines whether to
fulfill the offer based upon the available rates, rules and inventory. A
customer is notified whether his or her offer has been accepted within one hour.
If a customer's offer is accepted, priceline.com will immediately reserve the
rental car, charge the customer's credit card and notify the customer of the car
rental company and location providing the rental car.

      Other Travel Services. Priceline.com intends to expand its products and
services within the leisure travel industry over the next two years to encompass
cruises, all-inclusive resorts, time share and vacation packages.

      Home Financing Services. Priceline.com introduced its home financing
service in January 1999. Under the terms of separate agreements with Alliance
Partners, L.P. and LendingTree, priceline.com's financing service allows
consumers to name their interest rate and points for mortgages of a specified
term, including, purchase money mortgages, refinancings and home equity loans.

      Alliance relationship. Under the terms of priceline.com's agreement with
Alliance Partners, which was entered into on March 17, 2000, priceline.com
provides advertising and marketing support and a license of certain
priceline.com intellectual property to a newly formed indirect subsidiary of
Alliance Partners. This Subsidiary conducts business as a broker and/or lender
of residential mortgage loans under the name "pricelinemortgage." Pursuant to an
intellectual property license from priceline.com, pricelinemortgage utilizes the
priceline.com Name Your Own Price(sm) business model. Pricelinemortgage is
controlled by First Alliance Bank, a federally chartered savings association
supervised by the Office of Thrift Supervision and a wholly owned subsidiary of
Alliance Partners. Pricelinemortgage has access to the management resources and
expertise of Alliance Partners and its affiliates, including Alliance Mortgage
Company, a residential mortgage lender since 1962. Alliance Partners provides
management services to pricelinemortgage, including the procurement of personnel
and office space and assistance in obtaining regulatory approvals.
Pricelinemortgage is operating in all 50 states.




      LendingTree relationship. Under priceline.com's agreement with
LendingTree, priceline.com is responsible for maintaining the home financing
service on the priceline.com Web site and for consumer marketing. LendingTree
serves as the back-end processing system, which presents offers received
through the priceline.com Web site to multiple mortgage lending institutions for
consideration. There are currently more than 30 lenders participating in the
home financing services through LendingTree.

      To obtain a home mortgage, refinancing or home equity loan, consumers
access the priceline.com Web site and specify the amount of the loan, the term,
the interest rate and the points that they are willing to pay. Customers
complete a simplified loan application as part of the process of making an
offer. In connection with making an offer, customers are required to guarantee
with a major credit card the payment of a good-faith deposit of $200 that is
applied towards closing costs. Priceline.com notifies a customer within six
hours whether his or her offer has been accepted by a participating lender.
Participating lenders may submit counteroffers through Priceline.com for up to
one business day following the customer's offer.

      Other Financial Services Products

      Priceline.com intends to expand its products and services within the
financial services industry over the next two years to include unsecured
personal loans, automobile loans, credit cards and credit card balance
consolidations and automobile and life insurance policies. As with its other
products and services, priceline.com may expand its financial services products
by entering into licensing transactions or strategic relationships with leading
industry participants.

      New Car Sales

      Priceline.com introduced its new car sales service on a test basis in the
New York metropolitan area in July 1998. Since that time, priceline's new
automobile service has been expanded to include 26 states and the Company
intends to continue domestic expansion, subject to resolution of any regulatory
issues.




      Priceline.com's new car sales service accepts offers for every major brand
of automobile. To purchase a new car through the priceline.com service, the
customer identifies the exact vehicle desired to be purchased or leased,
including the make, model and specified options, the geographic area in which
the customer is willing to pick up the vehicle and the purchase price or lease
price the customer is willing to pay. All sales are made through
factory-authorized dealers.

      Upon receiving an offer for a new car, priceline.com transmits the
customer's offer to factory authorized dealers within the specified geographic
radius, without disclosing the identity of the customer. Priceline.com directs
the sale to the first dealer that notifies the Company that it is willing to
accept the customer's offer. Priceline.com then notifies the customer to pick up
the vehicle from that dealer and the transaction is closed directly between
them.

      Due to the numerous features and options on a new automobile, the range of
product substitutability that consumers will accept is lower in the case of new
cars than with airline tickets or hotels. As a result, a dealer that may not be
able to precisely fulfill a customer's offer is permitted to make a counteroffer
through priceline.com. The counteroffer may specify a different product package
or price. The customer is free to accept or reject such a counteroffer. The
customer also is permitted to submit an additional offer through priceline.com.
Priceline.com facilitates the exchange of customer offers and dealer acceptances
or counteroffers. Priceline.com does not negotiate on behalf of customers or
dealers and does not represent to its customers or dealers that it is acting as
an agent or broker on behalf of either party.

      Once an offer for a new car is accepted by a dealer, the consumer
completes the transaction directly with the dealer and receives the same
standard manufacturer's warranty and other terms that are available with respect
to any new car purchased from that dealer. In most states, when a sale is
completed, priceline.com is paid a $50 fee from the customer and a $200 fee from
the selling dealer. In other states, the Company does not currently receive
compensation from the customer or dealer as a result of regulatory restrictions.
If the customer fails to consummate the transaction within a specified time
period after being notified that an offer is accepted, the customer is charged a
cancellation fee.

      The priceline.com new car sales service is differentiated from other
Internet car sales services, which serve as lead generators for participating
car dealers. Under such services, multiple dealers may contact the customer in
response to the customer's inquiry to the Internet service. By contrast,
priceline.com's new car sales service does not reveal the identity of the
customer to the auto dealer until the dealer has accepted the customer's offer.
Furthermore, in contrast to other Internet car sales services, dealers are not
currently required to pay a participation fee to review offers from the
priceline.com service.

      Long Distance Service. In the near term, the Company intends to launch a
Name Your Own Price(sm) service for international and domestic long distance
calls. The Company intends to allow consumers to name their own price for
phone-to-phone international and domestic long distance calls.

      Licensees

      WebHouse Club. The Company has licensed its patented Name Your Own
Price(sm) business model and affiliated trademarks and software systems to
Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc., which operates an Internet-based service for
groceries and other retail products. Walker Digital Corporation owns 34.1% of
the outstanding capital stock of WebHouse Club and the balance is owned by
certain institutional and individual investors. Priceline.com owns a warrant
that entitles it to purchase up to 137.5 million shares of common stock of
WebHouse Club, or 77.5% of the fully diluted equity of WebHouse Club, at an
exercise price of $3.00 per share, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions.
Unless and until that warrant is exercised, WebHouse Club and its financial
results will not be included in priceline.com's financial statements. In
connection with the WebHouse Club transaction, Walker Digital, granted to
priceline.com an exclusive (in the field of retail commerce other than vending
machines or restaurants) worldwide license to certain intellectual property,
including patent and patent applications, useful in WebHouse Club's business.
The Company exclusively sublicensed these intellectual property rights to
WebHouse Club and granted to WebHouse Club an exclusive worldwide license to its
buyer-driven commerce patent rights and other intellectual property for use in
the sale of groceries, health and beauty items and household supplies by
retailers, as well as a non-exclusive worldwide license to such intellectual
property for use in Internet-based,

- --------




buyer-driven commerce for the sale, by retailers, of other products or services.
WebHouse Club pays priceline.com a sliding scale royalty descending from 1.0% of
net revenues. In addition to the patent and technology license, priceline.com
and WebHouse Club share certain information technology infrastructure, and
priceline.com provides WebHouse Club with marketing and information technology
services.

      Perfect Yard Sale. Priceline.com also has licensed its patented Name Your
Own Price(sm) business model and affiliated trademarks to Priceline Perfect Yard
Sale, Inc., a subsidiary of Walker Digital which operates a consumer-to-consumer
service for the sale of quality used goods over the Internet. Walker Digital has
agreed to grant priceline.com an exclusive, worldwide license to certain
intellectual property including patents useful in Perfect Yard Sale's business.
Under the terms of a preliminary agreement between priceline.com and Perfect
Yard Sale, priceline.com granted to Perfect Yard Sale an exclusive royalty-free
license to certain intellectual property licensed by Walker Digital to
priceline.com, as well as to the priceline.com buyer-driven commerce patent
rights and related intellectual property, and the Priceline name and associated
trademarks for use in Perfect Yard Sale's business, and agreed to provide
related services on a royalty-free basis pending execution of definitive
documentation. Under the terms of the Perfect Yard Sale preliminary agreement,
priceline.com has the right to receive a warrant to purchase a majority of the
outstanding voting equity of Perfect Yard Sale on mutually agreed upon terms.
Until that warrant is exercised, Perfect Yard Sale and its financial results
will not be included in priceline.com's financial statements.

      International Expansion

      On February 29, 2000, priceline.com announced that it had entered into
definitive agreements, to introduce priceline.com's buyer-driven e-commerce
system to the residents of Australia and New Zealand. This service will be
offered by a newly formed entity, MyPrice PTY Ltd ACN. Upon consummation of the
transactions contemplated by the definitive agreements, which is subject to
receipt of required Australian regulatory approvals, the outstanding equity of
MyPrice will be owned by a consortium of Australian and international business
executives and investors. MyPrice initially will offer leisure airline tickets
and intends to expand into other areas, including hotels, rental cars, financial
services (including credit cards, loans and insurance), telecommunications and
automotive sales. Upon consummation of the transactions, priceline.com will
license its business model to MyPrice and will receive an annual licensing
payment from MyPrice. Priceline.com will purchase a convertible note allowing it
to take a 50% interest in MyPrice under certain conditions. Unless and until
that note is converted, MyPrice and its financial results will not be included
in priceline.com's financial statements. MyPrice expects to launch two web sites
later this year - MyPrice.com.au and MyPrice.com.nz (both powered by
priceline.com).

      On January 26, 2000, the Company announced that it had entered into an
agreement in principle to form an alliance with Hutchison Whampoa Limited to
introduce priceline.com's buyer-driven e-commerce system to 2.6 billion
consumers in China (and Hong Kong), India, Taiwan, Indonesia, Singapore,
Thailand, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam and certain other Asian
countries. Under the terms of the agreement in principle between priceline.com
and a subsidiary of Hutchison, upon execution of mutually acceptable definitive
agreements, a new company will be created to launch and manage the Name Your Own
Price(sm) service in Asia. The Company will license its business model to the
newly created company and provide technology, marketing and operations support.
Hutchison will contribute its strong brand and leverage its extensive customer
base and retail network in Asia. The new company will pay priceline.com an
annual licensing fee in respect of priceline.com's intellectual property and
technology marketing and operation services fees. In addition, Priceline.com
will purchase a convertible note allowing it to take up to a 50% interest in the
new company under certain conditions. Unless and until that note is converted,
the new company and its financial results will not be included in
priceline.com's financial statements. Hutchison will also purchase equity
securities in the new company and is also providing management services. The new
company is expected to launch its first service for leisure airline tickets
later this year completion of the transaction is subject to negotiation and
execution of definitive agreements and certain other conditions.

      Priceline.com is continuing to pursue additional opportunities to expand
its service internationally.

Adaptive Marketing Programs




      Priceline.com has developed adaptive marketing programs to help bridge the
gap between consumer offers and seller prices, provide users of the
priceline.com service with other desired products, and generate additional
revenue for the Company. These programs also serve as an integral part of
priceline.com's strategy of building customer loyalty.

      Priceline.com's adaptive marketing programs presently include two distinct
initiatives. The first, which it refers to as "adaptive promotions," allows
consumers to increase the amount of their offers, and thus their likelihood of
success, at no additional cost by participating in sponsor promotions during the
process of making a priceline.com offer. For example, a customer making an offer
to buy a round-trip airline ticket can immediately have the amount of his or her
offer increased (and thereby increase his or her likelihood of success) by
applying online for a credit card.

      The second type of adaptive marketing program is referred to as "adaptive
cross selling" and utilizes cross selling of multiple products to increase the
number of successful transactions. For example, a customer whose offer for an
airline ticket was marginally below acceptable levels could be offered a second
related product such as a hotel room reservation or a rental car day at a
combined price that provided an acceptable margin for priceline.com.

      During 1999, priceline.com added adaptive marketing partners and, as a
result, reduced its dependence on any one partner. Priceline.com intends to
continue to add adaptive marketing programs so that consumers have a variety of
programs from which to choose and priceline.com has a diversified source of
adaptive marketing revenues.

      Walker Digital owns the intellectual property rights underlying the
technology associated with the Company's adaptive marketing programs. Walker
Digital has licensed to the Company the right to use these intellectual property
rights under a perpetual, exclusive, royalty-free license agreement. Walker
Digital has pending several United States patent applications directed to
different aspects of the processes and technology supporting the Company's
adaptive marketing programs.

Marketing and Brand Awareness

      Priceline.com has established itself as a leading e-commerce brand through
an aggressive marketing and promotion campaign. During fiscal year 1999,
priceline.com incurred $79.6 million for sales and marketing expense. It intends
to continue to pursue an aggressive marketing strategy designed to promote brand
awareness and the concept that consumers can save money on a wide range of
products and services through priceline.com. Underlying priceline.com's
marketing strategy is the Company's belief that its target market is all
consumers, not just Internet-savvy consumers. Substantially all of such spending
has been for television, radio and newspaper advertising. Priceline.com's
campaign features the actor William Shatner as its spokesperson.

      Priceline.com supplements its paid advertising and promotion with targeted
media coverage. Priceline.com has been featured in hundreds of news stories in
national publications such as The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and
USA Today, reflecting the intuitive appeal of the priceline.com business model
and its strong word-of-mouth support. In addition, priceline.com engages in
grass roots marketing such as promotional events on college campuses and
co-promotions with popular media such as MTV.

Competition

      Priceline.com competes with both online and traditional sellers of the
products and services offered on priceline.com. The market for selling products
and services over the Internet is new, rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive. Current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively
low cost. In addition, the traditional retail industry for the products and
services priceline.com offers is intensely competitive.

      Priceline.com currently or potentially competes with a variety of
companies with respect to each product or service it offers. With respect to
travel products, these competitors include:

            o     Internet travel agents such as Microsoft's Expedia;

            o     traditional travel agencies;




            o     consolidators and wholesalers of airline tickets and other
                  travel products, including online consolidators such as
                  Cheaptickets.com;

            o     individual or groups of airlines, hotels, rental car
                  companies, cruise operators and other travel service
                  providers; and

            o     operators of travel industry reservation databases such as
                  Worldspan and Sabre.

      Priceline.com's current or potential competitors with respect to new
automobiles include traditional and online auto dealers, including newly
developing auto super stores such as AutoNation, Auto-by-Tel and Microsoft's
CarPoint.

      With respect to financial service products, priceline.com's competitors
include:

            o     banks and other financial institutions;

            o     online and traditional mortgage and insurance brokers,
                  including mortgage.com, Quicken Mortgage, E-Loan and iOwn,
                  Inc.; and

            o     insurance companies.

      Priceline.com's current or potential competitors with respect to rental
cars include, among others, rental car companies and traditional and online
travel agencies and travel service providers.

      With respect to long distance services, priceline.com's potential
competitors include long distance providers, local exchange providers that may
be entering the long distance market and Internet Protocol telephone services.

      Priceline.com potentially faces competition from a number of large
Internet companies and services that have expertise in developing online
commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic, including Amazon.com, America
Online, Microsoft and Yahoo!, who could choose to compete with priceline.com
either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or
offline companies. Other large companies with strong brand recognition,
technical expertise and experience in Internet commerce could also seek to
compete with priceline.com. The Company also believes that a number of airlines
intend to invest in and offer discount airfares and travel services through a
site or sites to be established and similar steps may be under consideration by
certain hotel companies and travel service providers. Competition from these and
other sources could have a material adverse effect on priceline.com's business,
results of operations and financial condition.

      Priceline.com believes that the principal competitive factors in its
markets are brand recognition, price, Web site accessibility, ability to fulfill
offers, customer service, reliability of delivery, ease of use, and technical
expertise and capabilities. Many of priceline.com's current and potential
competitors, including Internet directories and search engines and large
traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases,
greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing,
technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these competitors may
be able to secure products and services on more favorable terms than
priceline.com. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote
significantly greater resources to: (1) marketing and promotional campaigns, (2)
attracting traffic to their Web sites, (3) attracting and retaining key
employees, (4) securing vendors and inventory and (5) Web site and systems
development.


      Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins and loss
of market share and could damage priceline.com's brand. There can be no
assurance that priceline.com will be able to compete successfully against
current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material
adverse effect on priceline.com's business, results of operations and financial
condition.



Operations and Technology

      Priceline.com's business is supported by a state of the art systems
platform, which was designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and
reliability. Priceline.com's core demand collection and offer processing systems
are proprietary to priceline.com. The software platform and architecture are
built on server-side Java, C++, and ISO standard SQL scripts integrated with an
Oracle relational database system. This internal platform was designed to
include open application protocol interfaces that can provide real-time
connectivity to vendors in the range of industries in which priceline.com
operates. These include large global inventory systems, such as airline and
hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as
individual inventory suppliers, such as auto dealers, individual hotels and hard
goods merchants. Priceline.com's Internet servers utilize Verisign digital
certificates to help it conduct secure communications and transactions.

      Priceline.com out-sources most of its call center and customer service
functions, and uses a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer
capabilities to its call centers and customer service centers in Norwalk,
Connecticut, Boston, Massachusetts, Columbus, Ohio, and Salt Lake City, Utah.

      Priceline.com's systems infrastructure, Web and database servers are
hosted at Exodus Communications, Inc. in Jersey City, New Jersey, which provides
communication lines from multiple providers including UUNet and AT&T, as well as
24-hour monitoring and engineering support. Exodus has its own generator and
multiple back-up systems in Jersey City. Priceline.com also maintains an
uninterruptible power supply system and generator and redundant servers at its
Stamford, Connecticut site to provide service capability if the Exodus site
fails.

      Priceline.com also offers phone service through its toll-free number,
1-800-PRICELINE(sm), which allows consumers who do not have access to a computer
to phone in their orders. In addition, consumers who choose not to transmit
their credit card information via the Internet have the option of submitting
their credit card information through the phone service. Priceline.com also uses
its toll-free number to provide customer service. Because priceline.com is an
Internet business, it intends to phase out its telephone ordering and credit
card submission services over time and, in the future, will use its toll-free
number only to provide customer service.

Intellectual Property

      Priceline.com currently holds four issued United States patents, Nos.
5,794,207, 5,797,127, 5,897,620 and 6,041,308, over 25 pending United States
patent applications and corresponding pending international patent applications.
Priceline.com files additional patent applications on new inventions, as
appropriate.

      While priceline.com believes that its issued patents and pending patent
applications help to protect the priceline.com business, there can be no
assurance that

            o     any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by
                  third parties;

- --------




            o     the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of
                  patents;

            o     competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will not
                  devise new methods of competing with the Company that are not
                  covered by priceline.com's patents or patent applications;

            o     because of variations in the application of our business model
                  to each of our products and services, our patents will be
                  effective in preventing one or more third parties from
                  utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same product
                  or service in one or more categories;

            o     new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the
                  value of or invalidate an issued patent; or

            o     a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that
                  prevent priceline.com from practicing features of its business
                  or will require priceline.com to pay for a license to use
                  those features.

      There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination
and issuance of so called "business-method" patents. As a result, the United
States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify
the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures
are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted.
Priceline.com can not anticipate what affect, if any, the new process will have
on the Company's pending patent applications.

      Priceline.com has been notified that a third-party patent applicant has
challenged its U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207 patent by attempting to provoke an
interference action in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. See "-
Legal Proceedings."

      Walker Digital owns certain intellectual property rights associated with
the business of WebHouse Club that have been licensed exclusively to
priceline.com in the field of buyer-driven commerce (other than vending machines
or restaurants) which, in turn, sublicensed such rights to WebHouse Club for use
in its business. Walker Digital also owns certain intellectual property rights
associated with the business of Perfect Yard Sale. In a preliminary agreement,
Walker Digital has agreed to license such rights exclusively to priceline.com in
the field of buyer-driven commerce which, in turn, will be sublicensed to
Perfect Yard Sale for use in its business. See "- Products and Services -
Licensees."

      Walker Digital owns the intellectual property rights underlying the
technology associated with priceline.com's adaptive marketing programs. Walker
Digital has licensed to priceline.com the right to use these intellectual
property rights. Walker Digital has several pending United States patent
applications directed to different aspects of the processes and technology
supporting adaptive marketing programs.

      Priceline.com seeks to protect its copyrights, service marks, trademarks,
trade dress and trade secrets through a combination of laws and contractual
restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. For example, priceline.com
attempts to register its trademarks and service marks in the United States and
internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade
secret protection may not be available in every country in which priceline.com's
services are made available online. See "- Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results -Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Intellectual
Property." A third party has sued priceline.com for, among other things,
misappropriation of trade secrets. See "Legal Proceedings."

      Priceline.com currently owns the Internet domain name "priceline.com" in
the United States. Domain names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory
bodies. The relationship between trademark and similar laws and domain name
registration is evolving, including passage during 1999 of the
Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, which significantly enhances the
ability to prevent incorporation by third parties of trademarks into domain
names. Priceline.com actively pursues infringers who improperly incorporate its
trademarks into domain names, as appropriate, to maintain and enhance the
strength of its trademarks. See "- Additional Factors That May Affect Future
Results - Our Success Depends On Our Ability To Protect Our Intellectual
Property."




Governmental Regulation

      The products and services provided by the Company are subject to various
federal, state and local regulations. For example, the Company's travel service
is subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as
laws requiring the Company to register as a "seller of travel." With respect to
the Company's new car sales service, the Company is subject to regulations
governing the registration and conduct of automobile dealers and brokers. In
connection with the Company's plans to expand its new car sales service
domestically, the Company may be required to register as an automobile
dealer/broker in each applicable jurisdiction. However, the Company may be
unable to expand to those jurisdictions that require dealer/brokers to maintain
a dealer lot zoned for automobiles, obtain a franchise agreement with automobile
manufacturers, or other related requirements. The Company will consider
variations to its business model to address regulatory issues or offer its
services without compensation pending resolution of any regulatory issues.

      The Company is also subject to laws governing the licensing and conduct of
persons providing mortgage brokerage services. Such laws typically require
certain consumer protection disclosures and loan solicitation procedures. For
example, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act prohibits the payment and
receipt of mortgage loan referral fees, and permit persons to be compensated
only for the fair market value of non-referral services. Accordingly, the
Company has structured its home financing services such that it provides
non-referral services such as Web site development and advertising to a licensed
mortgage broker who, in turn, provides the back-end processing of the loan
referrals. Although the mortgage broker compensates the Company only for the
fair market value of its non-referral services, it is possible that governmental
authorities could scrutinize the compensation agreement under the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act or enact new legislation that might limit or prohibit
the Company's present arrangement.

      All of the Company's services are subject to federal and state consumer
protection laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade
practices. The Company is also subject to regulations applicable to businesses
conducting online commerce. Today there are relatively few laws specifically
directed toward online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and
use of the Internet and online services, it is possible that laws and
regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet or online services.
These laws and regulations could cover issues such as online contracts, user
privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products
and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and
information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing
issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property
issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is uncertain, but any
such new legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, some states
may require the Company to qualify in that state to do business as a foreign
corporation because the Company's service is available in that state over the
Internet. Although the Company is qualified to do business in a number of
states, failure to meet the qualifications of certain states could subject the
Company to taxes and penalties.

      As the Company expands its international presence, it will also be subject
to various foreign regulations and governing bodies that might limit the
Company's products and services. Likewise, the Company may be subject to
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and various tariffs and trade
barriers in connection with online commerce. While the Company's licensees will
generally be responsible for complying with applicable regulations, any failure
on their part to comply may have an adverse effect on the Company.

Employees

      As of March 10, 2000, the Company employed approximately 373 full-time
employees. Priceline.com also employs independent contractors to support its
customer service and system support functions.

- --------




      Priceline.com has never had a work stoppage and its employees are not
represented by any collective bargaining unit. It considers its relations with
its employees to be good. Priceline.com's future success will depend, in part,
on its ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly
qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.

Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results

      Our Limited Operating History Makes Evaluating Our Business Difficult

      Priceline.com was formed in July 1997 and began operations on April 6,
1998. As a result, we have only a limited operating history on which you can
base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Our prospects must be
considered in the light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties
frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development,
particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as online
commerce, using new and unproven business models. To address these risks and
uncertainties, we must, among other things:

            o     attract leading sellers and consumers to the priceline.com
                  service;

            o     maintain and enhance our brand, and expand our product and
                  service offerings;

            o     attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel;
                  and

            o     adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive
                  developments.

We may not be successful in accomplishing these objectives.

      We Are Not Profitable and Expect to Continue to Incur Losses

      As of December 31, 1999, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.18 billion,
of which $1.07 billion related to certain non-cash charges arising from equity
issuances to a number of participating airlines, our chief executive officer and
other parties, which was partially offset by $188.8 million of income
representing the amount of estimated fair value of warrants received by us in
connection with our relationship with our licensee WebHouse Club. We have not
achieved profitability and expect to continue to incur losses. The principal
causes of our losses are likely to continue to be significant brand development
costs, marketing, personnel and promotion costs and technology and systems
development costs.

      Almost all of our revenues to date have been derived from airline ticket
sales, hotel room reservations and related adaptive marketing programs. As our
business model evolves, we have introduced and expect to continue to introduce a
number of new products and services. With respect to both current and future
product and service offerings, we expect to increase significantly our operating
expenses in order to increase our customer base, enhance our brand image and
support our growing infrastructure. For us to make a profit, our revenues and
gross profit margins will need to increase sufficiently to cover these and other
future costs. Otherwise, we may never achieve profitability.

      We Are Dependent on Adaptive Marketing Programs

      Our adaptive marketing programs permit consumers to increase the amount of
their offers at no additional cost by participating in sponsor promotions during
the process of making an offer through the priceline.com service. The fees paid
to us by sponsors offering the promotions generate significant revenues. Since
these fees historically have involved no direct costs, they have had a
disproportionately positive impact on our gross profit margins. A significant
reduction in consumer acceptance of our adaptive marketing programs,
significantly increased costs that we may incur in connection with adaptive
marketing programs, reductions in fees paid to us




in connection with such programs or any material decline in such programs could
result in a material reduction in our revenues and our gross profit. We may not
be able to replace such revenues through other programs or through product
sales.

      We cannot guarantee that any of our adaptive marketing programs will
continue beyond their initial terms or, even if continued, that they will be
successful, or if additional adaptive marketing programs will be initiated. If
such programs are not successful, our gross profit and results of operations
could be adversely affected.

      Potential Fluctuations in Our Financial Results Makes Financial
      Forecasting Difficult

      We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from
quarter to quarter. As a result, quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenues
and operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited
operating history and our new and relatively unproven business model, we cannot
predict our future revenues or results of operations accurately. It is likely
that in one or more future quarters our operating results will fall below the
expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading
price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially and adversely
affected.

      Our business has no backlog and almost all of our revenues for a
particular quarter are derived from transactions that are both initiated and
completed during that quarter. Our current and future expense levels are based
largely on our investment plans and estimates of future revenues and are, to a
large extent, fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a
timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, and any
significant shortfall in revenues relative to our planned expenditures could
have an immediate adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

      Our limited operating history and rapid growth makes it difficult for us
to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. Nevertheless, we
expect our business to be subject to seasonal fluctuations, reflecting a
combination of seasonality trends for the products and services offered by the
priceline.com service and seasonality patterns affecting Internet use. For
example, with regard to our travel products, demand for leisure travel may
increase over summer vacations and holiday periods, while Internet usage may
decline during the summer months. Our results also may be affected by seasonal
fluctuations in the inventory made available to the priceline.com service by
participating sellers. Airlines, for example, typically enjoy high demand for
tickets through traditional distribution channels for travel during Thanksgiving
and the year-end holiday period. As a result, during those periods, less excess
airline ticket inventory would be available to priceline.com. Our business also
may be subject to cyclical variations for the products and services offered; for
example, leisure travel and home mortgage financing tend to decrease in economic
downturns.

      We Are Dependent On the Airline Industry and Certain Airlines

      Our near term, and possibly long term, prospects are significantly
dependent upon our sale of leisure airline tickets. Sales of leisure airline
tickets represented a substantial majority of total revenue for the year ended
December 31, 1999. Leisure travel, including the sale of leisure airline
tickets, is dependent on personal discretionary spending levels. As a result,
sales of leisure airline tickets and other leisure travel products tend to
decline during general economic downturns and recessions. Unforeseen events,
such as political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices,
travel-related accidents and unusual weather patterns also may adversely affect
the leisure travel industry. As a result, our business also is likely to be
affected by those events. Significantly reducing our dependence on the airline
and travel industries is likely to take a long time and there can be no
guarantee that we will succeed in reducing that dependence.

      Sales of airline tickets from priceline.com's six largest airline
suppliers accounted for approximately 93% of airline ticket revenue for
the year ended December 31, 1999. As a result, currently we are substantially

- --------




dependent upon the continued participation of these airlines in the
priceline.com service in order to maintain and continue to grow our total
airline ticket revenues. We currently have 30 participating airlines. However,
our airline participation agreements:

            o     do not require the airlines to make tickets available for any
                  particular routes;

            o     do not require the airlines to provide any specific quantity
                  of airline tickets;

            o     do not require the airlines to provide particular prices or
                  levels of discount;

            o     do not require the airlines to deal exclusively with us in the
                  public sale of discounted airline tickets; and

            o     generally, can be terminated upon relatively short notice.

These agreements also outline the terms and conditions under which ticket
inventory provided by the airlines may be sold.

      Our agreement with Delta contains certain restrictions relating to the
terms of participation in our service by other carriers and the circumstances
under which we may transfer or license our intellectual property to other travel
providers. It is possible that, as the priceline.com service grows and becomes a
significant channel of distribution for airline tickets and as other carriers
seek participation in the priceline.com service, these competitively restrictive
provisions of the Delta agreement could raise issues under federal and state
antitrust laws. If that happened, either a federal or state government agency or
private party could initiate litigation seeking to enjoin us and Delta from
enforcing these provisions or seeking to collect treble damages. The outcome of
any such litigation would be uncertain. If, however, such a lawsuit resulted in
an injunction or subjected us to damages, our business and financial condition
could suffer.

      Due to our dependence on the airline industry, we could be severely
affected by changes in that industry, and, in many cases, we will have no
control over such changes or their timing. For example, if the Federal Aviation
Administration grounded a popular aircraft model, excess seat capacity could be
dramatically reduced and, as a result, our source of inventory could be
significantly curtailed. In addition, given the concentration of the airline
industry, particularly in the domestic market, major airlines that are not
participating in the priceline.com service could exert pressure on other
airlines not to supply us with tickets. Alternatively, the airlines could
attempt to establish their own buyer-driven commerce service or other similar
service to compete with us. We also could be materially adversely affected by
the bankruptcy, insolvency or other material adverse change in the business or
financial condition of one or more of our airline participants.

      Our Business Model is Novel and Relatively Unproven

      The priceline.com service is based on a novel and relatively unproven
business model. We will be successful only if consumers and sellers actively use
the priceline.com service. Prior to the launch of the priceline.com service,
consumers and sellers had never bought and sold products and services through a
demand




collection system over the Internet. Therefore, it is impossible to predict the
degree to which consumers and sellers will use the priceline.com service.

      Many of the factors influencing consumers' and sellers' willingness to use
the priceline.com service are outside our control. For example, a labor dispute
that disrupts airline service or an airline accident could make consumers
unwilling to use a service like priceline.com that does not permit the customer
to designate the airline on which the customer purchases a ticket. In addition,
a breach of security on the Internet, even if we were not involved, could make
consumers unwilling to guarantee orders online with a credit card. Consequently,
it is possible that consumers and sellers will never utilize the priceline.com
service to the degree necessary for us to achieve profitability.

      We Need to Sell New Products and Services

      We are unlikely to make significant profits unless we continue to make new
or complementary products and services and a broader range of existing products
and services available through the priceline.com service or through services
provided by our licensees. We will incur substantial expenses and use
significant resources in trying to continue to expand the type and range of the
products and services that we offer. However, we may not be able to attract
sellers, other participants and licensees to provide such products and services
or consumers to purchase such products and services through the priceline.com
service. In addition, if we or our licensees launch new products or services
that are not favorably received by consumers, our reputation and the value of
the priceline.com brand could be damaged.

      The great majority of our experience to date is in the travel industry.
The travel industry is characterized by "expiring" inventories. For example, if
not used by a specific date, an airline ticket, hotel room reservation or rental
car reservation has no value. The expiring nature of the inventory creates
incentives for airlines, hotels and rental car companies to sell seats, hotel
room reservations or rental car reservations at reduced rates. Because we have
only limited experience in selling "non- expiring" inventories on the
priceline.com service, such as new cars or financial services, we cannot predict
whether the priceline.com business model can be successfully applied to such
products and services.

      New Businesses We Are Evaluating May Not Be Successful

      We intend to expand our current Name Your Own Price(sm) business model
into other areas of e-commerce and to other regions, directly and through
licensees. We recently licensed our name and business model to WebHouse Club, a
privately held independent start-up company affiliated with Walker Digital for
use in a business that enables consumers to use the Internet to identify the
purchase terms for groceries and other retail merchandise which they would
subsequently pick up from participating retailers. We also recently entered into
a similar preliminary licensing arrangement with Perfect Yard Sale, another
privately held independent start-up company affiliated with Walker Digital for
use in a consumer-to-consumer business in which buyers would make conditional
purchase offers to acquire goods from other consumers. In addition, we have
licensed our name and business model to Alliance Partners in connection with our
home financing services. We also have entered into, and intend to continue to
enter into, similar licensing arrangements with third parties in connection with
international expansion of the priceline.com service. These new businesses
typically incur start-up costs and operating losses and, may not be successful.
If these new businesses are not favorably received by consumers, the association
of our brand name and business model with these new entities may adversely
affect our business and reputation and may dilute the value of our brand name.
In addition, to the extent that we need to service these licensees, our core
business may suffer. Moreover, expansion of our core business model will expose
us to additional risks not currently applicable to our existing operations. The
additional risks associated with the expansion of our core business could have a
material adverse effect on our business generally. In addition, as we expand our
business model to other areas of e-commerce, these new businesses will face
competition from established providers in those areas.

      We May Be Unable to Effectively Manage Our Rapid Growth




      We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and anticipate
that further expansion will be required to realize our growth strategy. Our
rapid growth has placed significant demands on our management and other
resources which, given our expected future growth rate, is likely to continue.
To manage our future growth, we will need to attract, hire and retain highly
skilled and motivated officers and employees and improve existing systems and/or
implement new systems for: (1) transaction processing; (2) operational and
financial management; and (3) training, integrating and managing our growing
employee base.

      If We Lose Our Key Personnel or Cannot Recruit Additional Personnel, Our
      Business May Suffer

      Competition for personnel with experience in Internet commerce is intense.
If we do not succeed in attracting new employees or retaining and motivating our
current and future employees, our business could suffer significantly.

      Since our formation in July 1997, we have expanded from 10 to 373
full-time employees as of March 10, 2000. We also have employed many key
personnel since our launch in April 1998, including our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, our Senior
Executive Vice President Stategy, Planning and Administration and Chief
Financial Officer, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, our
Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, and a number of key
managerial, marketing, planning, financial, technical and operations personnel.
We expect to continue to add additional key personnel in the near future. We do
not have "key person" life insurance policies on any of our key personnel.

      We believe our performance is substantially dependent on:

            o     our ability to retain and motivate our senior management and
                  other key employees; and

            o     our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and
                  motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing
                  and customer service personnel.

      We Rely on Third-Party Systems

        We rely on certain third-party computer systems or third-party service
providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of the airline
and hotel industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and hotel room
reservations. Any interruption in these third-party services, or a deterioration
in their performance, could be disruptive to our business. Our agreements with
third-party service providers are terminable upon short notice. In the event our
arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to
find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on
commercially reasonable terms.

      Intense Competition Could Reduce Our Market Share and Harm Our Financial
      Performance

      The markets for the products and services offered on the priceline.com
service are intensely competitive. We compete with both traditional distribution
channels and online services. Increased competition could diminish our ability
to become profitable or result in loss of market share and damage the
priceline.com brand. See "- Competition."

      Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Intellectual Property




      We have developed what we believe is a comprehensive program for securing
and protecting rights in patentable inventions, trademarks, trade secrets and
copyrightable materials. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual
property, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. See "-
Intellectual Property" and "Legal Proceedings."

      Legal Proceedings

      We have received a copy of a Petition for Interference that requests the
United States Patent and Trademark Office to declare an "interference" between a
patent filed by a third party describing an electronic market for used and
collectible goods and our U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207. We also are a party to
other legal proceedings described in Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings." An adverse
outcome in any of the actions described in Item 3 could have a material adverse
effect on our business. See "Legal Proceedings."

      The Success of Our Business Will Depend on Continued Growth of Internet
      Commerce

      The market for the purchase of products and services over the Internet is
a new and emerging market. As an Internet commerce business, our future revenues
and profits are substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance and use
of the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce by consumers
and sellers. If widespread acceptance and growth of Internet use does not occur,
our business and financial performance will suffer. Rapid growth in the use of
and interest in the Internet and other online services is a recent phenomenon.
This growth may not continue. A sufficiently broad base of consumers may not
adopt, or continue to use, the Internet as a medium of commerce. Demand for and
market acceptance of recently introduced products and services over the Internet
are subject to a high level of uncertainty, and there are few proven products
and services. For us to grow, consumers who historically have purchased through
traditional means of commerce, such as a travel agent for airline tickets or a
branch of a bank for home financings, will need to elect to purchase online
products and services. Sellers of products and services will need to adopt or
expand use of the Internet as a channel of distribution.

      The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience,
significant growth in the number of users and amount of traffic. Our success
will depend upon the development and maintenance of the Internet's
infrastructure to cope with this increased traffic. This will require a reliable
network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and the
timely development of complementary products, such as high-speed modems, for
providing reliable Internet access and services.

      The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a
result of damage to portions of its infrastructure and could face such outages
and delays in the future. Outages and delays are likely to affect the level of
Internet usage generally, as well as the processing of transactions on the
priceline.com Web site. It is unlikely that the level of orders lost in those
circumstances could be made up by increased phone orders. In addition, the
Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the development or adoption
of new standards to handle increased levels of activity or due to increased
government regulation. The adoption of new standards or government regulation
may, however, require us to incur substantial compliance costs.

Capacity Constraints and System Failures Could Harm Our Business

      If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fail to
perform, we could experience:

o     unanticipated disruptions in service;

o     slower response times;

o     decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or

o     delays in the introduction of new products and services;

any of which could impair our reputation, damage the priceline.com brand and
materially and adversely affect our revenues. Publicity about a service
disruption also could cause a material decline in our stock price.

      We use internally developed systems to operate the priceline.com service,
including transaction processing and order management systems that were designed
to be scalable. However, if the number of users of the priceline.com service
increases substantially, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our
technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not
know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of any
such increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to
accommodate such increases in a timely manner.

      Our ability to facilitate transactions successfully and provide high
quality customer service also depends on the efficient and uninterrupted
operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. The priceline.com
service has experienced periodic system interruptions, which we believe will
continue to occur from time to time. Our systems and operations also are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power
loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses,
intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. While we currently maintain
redundant servers at our Stamford, Connecticut premises to provide limited
service during system disruptions at our production, we do not have fully
redundant systems, a formal disaster recovery plan or alternative providers of
hosting services. In addition, we do not carry sufficient business interruption
insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. Any system failure that
causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of the
priceline.com service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and
materially adversely affect our revenues.

      We May Not Be Able to Keep Up with Rapid Technological and Other Changes

      The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing
technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product
announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We
may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market
characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the
apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet-based products
and services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to
adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving
industry standards and to continually improve the performance, features and
reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product
offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the
widespread adoption of new Internet,




networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes
could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our
services or infrastructure.

      Online Security Breaches Could Harm Our Business

      The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is
essential in maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in the priceline.com
service. Substantial or ongoing security breaches on our system or other
Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently
require buyers to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online
or through our toll-free telephone service. We rely on licensed encryption and
authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential
information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in
computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a
compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer
transaction data.

      We incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security
breaches and their consequences. However, we cannot guarantee that our security
measures will prevent security breaches. A party that is able to circumvent our
security systems could steal proprietary information or cause significant
interruptions in our operations. For instance, several major Web sites recently
experienced significant interruptions as a result of improper direction of
excess traffic to those sites. Security breaches also could damage our
reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability.
Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to
reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.

      We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third
parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned
with security and privacy on the Internet and any publicized security problems
could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com
service as a means of conducting commercial transactions.

      Our Stock Price is Highly Volatile

      The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to
continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the
following, some of which are beyond our control:

      o     quarterly variations in our operating results;

      o     operating results that vary from the expectations of securities
            analysis and investors;

      o     changes in expectations as to our future financial performance,
            including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;

      o     changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service
            companies;

      o     announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or
            our competitors;

      o     announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts,
            acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
            commitments;

      o     loss of a major seller participant, such as an airline or hotel
            chain;

      o     changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;

      o     lack of success in the expansion of our business model horizontally
            or geographically;

      o     announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings
            against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;




      o     additions or departures of key personnel; and

      o     stock market price and volume fluctuations.

      Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large
number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our
shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.

      In addition, the trading prices of Internet stocks in general, including
ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations
often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of
these companies. The valuations of many Internet stocks, including ours, are
extremely high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to
earnings and price to sales ratios. The trading price of our common stock has
increased significantly from the initial public offering price. These trading
prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public's
perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies could depress
our stock price regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry
factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our
operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and
economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate
fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.

      In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought
against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of their
securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities
litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention
and resources.

      Our Business is Subject to Tax Uncertainties

      Potential Federal Air Transportation Tax on Airline Ticket Sales. A
Federal transportation tax is imposed upon the sale of airline tickets. The tax
is based on a percentage of the cost of transportation, which was 9% for periods
prior to October 1, 1998, 8% for the period October 1, 1998 through September
30, 1999 and 7.5% thereafter. The Company has historically interpreted the tax
regulations as requiring that the tax be computed based on the amount charged by
the airline to the Company for the airline ticket and the Company's
participating airlines have collected and remitted the tax based on this amount.
The Company applied for a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service confirming
this interpretation. In December 1999, the Internal Revenue Service indicated to
the Company that it was unlikely that a favorable ruling would be issued. The
Company subsequently withdrew its ruling request because of the uncertainty of
the outcome. Because the Company anticipated the possibility of an adverse
ruling on this issue, the Company accrued approximately $1.9 million relating to
the balance of the tax liability for tickets sold prior to that date. The
Company believes this accrual to be adequate, but there can be no assurance as
to the final outcome because a formal ruling has not been issued by the Internal
Revenue Service.

      State Taxes. We file tax returns in such states as required by law based
on principles applicable to traditional businesses. In addition, we do not
collect sales or other similar taxes in respect of transactions conducted
through the priceline.com service (other than the federal air transportation tax
referred to above). However, one or more states could seek to impose additional
income tax obligations or sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state
companies, such as ours, which engage in or facilitate online commerce. A number
of proposals have been made at state and local levels that could impose such
taxes on the sale of products and services through the Internet or the income
derived from such sales. Such proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair
the growth of e-commerce and adversely affect our opportunity to become
profitable.

      Legislation limiting the ability of the states to impose taxes on
Internet-based transactions has been enacted by the United States Congress.
However, this legislation, known as the Internet Tax Freedom Act, imposes only a
three-year moratorium, which commenced October 1, 1998 and ends on October 21,
2001, on state and local taxes on (1) electronic commerce where such taxes are
discriminatory and (2) Internet access unless such taxes were generally imposed
and actually enforced prior to October 1, 1998. It is possible that the tax
moratorium could fail to be renewed prior to October 21, 2001. Failure to renew
this legislation would allow various states to impose




taxes on Internet-based commerce. The imposition of such taxes could adversely
affect our ability to become profitable.

      Regulatory and Legal Uncertainties Could Harm Our Business

      The products and services we offer through the priceline.com service are
regulated by federal and state governments. Our ability to provide such products
and services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The
implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of
existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur
significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to
become impractical and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. See
"-Government Regulation."

                SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

      Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and
the descriptions of the Company's business, contain forward- looking statements.
In some cases, readers can identify forward-looking statements by terminology
such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "plans," "anticipates,"
"believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," or the negative
of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual
results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such
factors include, among other things, the factors described in "- Additional
Factors That May Affect Future Results." We undertake no duty to update any of
the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.

Item 2. Properties

      Priceline.com's executive, administrative and operating offices are
located in approximately 140,510 square feet of leased office space located in
Norwalk, Connecticut and 10,000 square feet of leased office space located in
Stamford, Connecticut. Priceline.com is subleasing the Stamford office space
from Walker Digital on a month-to-month basis. Priceline.com also has guaranteed
Walker Digital's obligations under a lease of office space in New York City that
is used by both companies. Priceline.com anticipates that it will require
additional space within the next 12 months to accommodate its anticipated
growth.

      The Company did not own any real estate as of March 31, 2000.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

      Legal Proceedings

      On January 6, 1999, priceline.com received notice that a third-party
patent applicant and patent attorney, Thomas G. Woolston, purportedly had filed
in December 1998 with the United States Patent and Trademark Office a request to
declare an interference between a patent application filed by Woolston and
priceline.com's U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207. Priceline.com currently is awaiting
information from the Patent Office regarding whether it will initiate an
interference proceeding.

      On January 19, 1999, Marketel International Inc., a California
corporation, filed a lawsuit against priceline.com, among others. On February
22, 1999, Marketel filed an amended and supplemental complaint. The amended
complaint filed by Marketel alleges causes of action for, among other things,
misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of contract, conversion, breach of
confidential relationship, copyright infringement, fraud, unfair competition and
false advertising, and seeks injunctive relief and damages in an unspecified
amount. In its amended complaint, Marketel alleges, among other things, that the
defendants conspired to misappropriate Marketel's business model, which
allegedly was provided in confidence approximately ten years ago. The amended
complaint also alleges that four former Marketel employees are the actual sole
inventors or co-inventors of U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207 which was issued on
August 11, 1998 and has been assigned to priceline.com. Marketel asks that the
patent's inventorship be corrected accordingly.

- --------




      On February 5 and February 10, 1999, the Company filed its answer and
amended answer, respectively, to the amended complaint, in which it denied the
material allegations of liability in the complaint. The cause of action is
currently pending against priceline.com and Priceline Travel, Inc. under the
caption Marketel International, Inc. v. Priceline.com, et al., No. C-99-1061
(N.D. Cal. 1999). Priceline.com and all other defendants strongly dispute the
material legal and factual allegations contained in Marketel's amended complaint
and believe that the amended complaint is without merit. Priceline.com intends
to defend vigorously against the action. Pursuant to the indemnification
obligations contained in the Purchase and Intercompany Services Agreement with
Walker Digital, Walker Digital has agreed to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
priceline.com for damages, liabilities and legal expenses incurred in connection
with the Marketel litigation.

      On October 13, 1999, priceline.com filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut under the caption Priceline.com
Incorporated v. Microsoft Corporation and Expedia, Inc., No. 399CV1991 (AWT)
alleging that Microsoft Corporation and Expedia, Inc., a subsidiary of Microsoft
Corporation, infringe priceline.com's U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207 by operating the
defendants' "Hotel Price Matcher" service, and that the defendants' conduct
toward priceline.com violated the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. On
December 20, 1999, defendants moved the Court to dismiss the complaint for
failure to name a necessary party, Marketel. On March 21, 2000, the presiding
judge stated that he intends to deny defendants' motion to dismiss, and that a
decision will be forthcoming. On December 23, 1999, the Court granted
priceline.com's motion to supplement the complaint to expressly include
defendants' "Flight Price Matcher" service. In the lawsuit, priceline.com is
seeking declaratory relief, permanent injunctive relief and actual and punitive
damages.

      From time to time the Company has been and expects to continue to be
subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business,
including claims of alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property
rights by the Company. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.

      The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the legal proceedings
referred to above.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted for a vote of stockholders of the Company during
the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1999.

                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Price Range of Common Stock

      Priceline.com's common stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq National Market
under the symbol "PCLN" since priceline.com's initial public offering on March
29, 1999. Prior to such time, there was no public market for the common stock of
priceline.com. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the
high and low closing sales prices per share of the common stock as reported on
the Nasdaq National Market:

1999                                                         High         Low

First Quarter (from March 29, 1999) ..................     $ 82.875     $ 69.00

Second Quarter .......................................      162.375       59.875

Third Quarter ........................................      112.00        55.625




Fourth Quarter .......................................       76.875       46.750

Dividend Policy

      Priceline.com has not declared or paid any cash dividends on its capital
stock since its inception and does not expect to pay any cash dividends for the
foreseeable future. Priceline.com currently intends to retain future earnings,
if any, to finance the expansion of its business.

Holders

      As of March 17, 2000, there were approximately 476 stockholders of record
of priceline.com's common stock, although the Company believes that there is a
significantly larger number of beneficial owners.

Use of Proceeds of Initial Public Offering

      On April 1, 1999, priceline.com completed an initial public offering in
which it sold 10,000,000 shares of its common stock. The managing underwriters
in the offering were Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated, Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, BancBoston Stephens Inc. and Donaldson Lufkin &
Jenrette Securities Corporation. The shares of common stock sold in the offering
were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on a Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (the "Registration Statement") (Reg. No. 333-69657) that
was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29,
1999. All 10,000,000 shares of common stock registered under the Registration
Statement were sold at a price of $16.00 per share for gross proceeds of $160.0
million. Offering proceeds to priceline.com, net of approximately $11.2 million
in aggregate underwriter discounts and commissions and $4.5 million in other
related expenses, were approximately $144.3 million.

      Net offering proceeds received on April 1, 1999 from the initial public
offering were used for general corporate purposes, including working capital to
fund anticipated operating losses, expenses associated with its advertising
campaigns, brand-name promotions and other marketing efforts and capital
expenditures. Priceline.com also may use a portion of the net proceeds,
currently intended for general corporate purposes, to acquire or invest in
businesses, technologies, products or services, although no specific
acquisitions are planned and no portion of the net proceeds has been allocated
for any acquisition. None of the net offering proceeds of priceline.com have
been paid directly or indirectly to any director, officer, general partner of
priceline.com or their associates, persons owning 10% or more of any class of
priceline.com's equity securities, or an affiliate of priceline.com other than
compensation to and other related arrangements with officers of priceline.com in
the ordinary course of business and payments that were made in the ordinary
course of business to Walker Digital Corporation pursuant to a reciprocal
services arrangement.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The selected financial data presented below are derived from the financial
statements of the Company, and should be read in connection with those
statements, which are included herein. All share and per share amounts have been
retroactively adjusted to reflect the 1.25:1 stock split during 1999.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

           MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                            AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

      Priceline.com has pioneered a unique e-commerce pricing system known as a
"demand collection system" that enables consumers to use the Internet to save
money on a wide range of products and services while enabling sellers to
generate incremental revenue. Using a simple and compelling consumer
proposition--Name Your Own Price(SM)--we collect consumer demand, in the form of
individual customer offers guaranteed by a credit card, for a particular product
or service at a price set by the customer. We then either communicate that
demand directly to participating sellers or access participating sellers'
private databases to determine whether we can fulfill the customer's offer.
Consumers agree to hold their offers open for a specified period of time and,
once fulfilled, offers cannot be canceled. We benefit consumers by enabling them
to save money, while at the same time benefiting sellers by providing them with
an effective revenue management tool capable of identifying and capturing
incremental revenues. By requiring consumers to be flexible with respect to
brands, sellers and product features, we enable sellers to generate incremental
revenue without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail
pricing structures.

      Priceline.com was formed in July 1997 and our primary activities during
the period prior to launch consisted of recruiting and training employees,
developing our business model, implementing systems to support our business
model, developing relationships with seller participants and developing the
priceline.com brand. We commenced operations in April 1998 with the sale of
leisure airline tickets. Since that time, our business has grown significantly
and the priceline.com service includes the following products and services:

      o     leisure airline tickets, provided by ten domestic and 20
            international airline participants;

      o     hotel rooms, which was launched in October 1998, in substantially
            all major United States markets with more than 15 leading national
            hotel chains as participants;

      o     rental cars, which was launched in December 1999, in substantially
            all major United States markets with three leading rental car chains
            as participants;

      o     new automobiles, which was launched on a test basis in the New York
            Metropolitan Area in July 1998 and is now offered in 26 states;


      o     home financing services, which was launched in January 1999 with
            home mortgage services and now also includes home equity loans and
            refinancing services.

      Priceline.com also is currently planning an expansion of its core Name
Your Own Price(SM) business model to other areas of e-commerce, including long
distance telephone service, cruises and vacation packages.

      Through the innovative use of "adaptive marketing programs," priceline.com
also markets customer acquisition programs for third parties. These programs
facilitate the completion of a higher percentage of successful transactions
through the priceline.com service, while generating fee income for the Company.
During 1999, the Company increased its number of adaptive marketing partners
from one to ten, thus reducing its dependence on any one partner. Priceline.com
intends to continue to add adaptive marketing programs so that consumers have a
variety of programs from which to choose and priceline.com has a diversified
source of adaptive marketing revenues.

      Priceline.com has announced several transactions pursuant to which third
parties ("Licensees") license the priceline.com name and demand collection
system for offering a particular product or service or for offering a number of
products or services in a distinct international region. Pursuant to the
Licensee transactions, priceline.com generally receives a royalty under the
license and may also receive fees for services and reimbursement of certain




expenses. Priceline.com also holds convertible debt or warrants entitling it to
acquire a significant percentage of such Licensee's equity securities upon the
occurrence of certain events. Unless such equity securities are converted, the
results of Licensees will not be included in priceline.com's financial results.

      In 1999, priceline.com licensed its name and demand collection system to
Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc. and agreed to provide certain services to WebHouse
Club. WebHouse Club offers a Name Your Own Price(SM) service for groceries and
has announced the planned offering of a service for gasoline. Under the
negotiated agreements, priceline.com receives a royalty based on a percentage of
WebHouse Club revenues and compensation at fair value for certain services
rendered. As an inducement to enter into a relationship with WebHouse Club,
priceline.com received a warrant to purchase a majority of the shares of
WebHouse Club common stock. The warrants are non-forfeitable, fully vested upon
grant, exercisable in five years or earlier upon the occurrence of certain
events, and do not require the performance of any additional services. Upon
receipt of the warrant in the fourth quarter, priceline.com recognized $188.8
million of income representing the amount of the estimated fair value of the
warrants, based on an independent valuation.

      In March 2000, the Company entered into an agreement with Alliance
Partners, LP, pursuant to which Alliance has formed an operating subsidiary,
Priceline Mortgage, for the primary purpose of acting as a broker and/or lender
of residential mortgage loans in connection with the priceline.com mortgage
service. Priceline.com has agreed to provide $3.62 million of financing to an
affiliate of Alliance in the form of a convertible secured note and has agreed
to license the "priceline" name and business model for use by Priceline
Mortgage. Alliance has agreed to provide management services to Priceline
Mortgage, including the procurement of personnel and office space and assistance
in obtaining regulatory approvals. A pilot program was launched in early October
1999 and currently is operating in all 50 states.

      Because the priceline.com system does not set minimum offer thresholds,
and consumers are not charged to make offers for its products, it is expected
that we will receive a significant number of unreasonable or "fantasy offers".
Accordingly, in addition to analyzing our actual fulfillment rates, we also
analyze the percentage of "reasonable" offers that we are able to fill. We
consider an offer for an airline ticket, hotel room or rental car to be
"reasonable" when it is no more than 30% lower than the lowest generally
available advance-purchase fare for the same product. Using this standard, the
overall percentage of offers considered reasonable for the year ended December
31, 1999 was approximately 57.0%. The Company measures its "bind" rate as the
percentage of reasonable offers that the Company ultimately fulfills. The
Company's bind rate for 1999 was 43.6% for all reasonable airline ticket, hotel
room and rental car offers.

      When making offers for airline tickets through the priceline.com service,
consumers are permitted to make only one offer within a seven day period unless
they change some feature of their itinerary, such as the date on which or the
airport from which they are willing to fly. As a result of the Company's
"checkstatus" feature, introduced in April 1999, consumers whose initial
requests are not satisfied are permitted to resubmit revised offers that reflect
at least one change to their itinerary. Effective with this change, each initial
offer and any resubmitted offers are treated as a single offer for purposes of
measuring our total offer volume and our offer fulfillment rates. Previously,
each had been counted as a separate offer. Therefore, comparisons with prior
periods may not be meaningful.

      As of December 31, 1999, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $1.18
billion, of which $1.07 billion related to certain non-cash charges arising from
equity issuances to a number of participating airlines, its chief executive
officer and other parties, as more fully described below, partially offset by
the WebHouse Club warrant income described above. Priceline.com believes that
its continued growth will depend in large part on its ability to continue to
promote the priceline.com brand and to apply the priceline.com business model to
a wide range of products and services.




Priceline.com intends to continue to invest heavily in marketing and promotion,
technology and personnel. As a result, it expects to incur additional losses.
However, the Company's plans call for reduction of operating losses and
improvement in its gross margins in an effort to achieve profitability.
Priceline.com's limited operating history makes the prediction of future results
of operations difficult, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that it will
achieve or sustain revenue growth or profitability.

      As of December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding non-qualified stock
options to purchase 27,024,740 shares issued to various employees, consultants
and directors pursuant to the Company's 1997 Omnibus Plan and 1999 Omnibus Plan.
The options entitle the holders to purchase common stock at a weighted average
exercise price of approximately $13.93 per share, subject to adjustment in
accordance with the 1997 Omnibus Plan and the 1999 Omnibus Plan. Upon exercise
of an option, priceline.com will be required to make payments on behalf of the
option holders for certain payroll taxes such as Social Security and Medicare.
These payroll taxes will appear as a general and administrative expense on
priceline.com's statement of operations and will amount to approximately 1.5% to
2.0% of the difference between the exercise price and the then fair market value
of the common stock at the time of exercise. However, upon exercise of
outstanding options, priceline.com will be paid the exercise price of the
options that are exercised. The total exercise price of the options outstanding
at December 31, 1999 is $376.5 million. Priceline.com also will be entitled to
an income tax deduction equal to the sum of (1) the difference between the
exercise price of the option and the then fair market value of the common stock
at the time of exercise and (2) the total amount of payroll tax payments. Such
deduction would be utilized to the extent that the Company generates taxable
income. The calculation of the payroll tax expense and income tax deduction, and
the timing of those events and the receipt of the related cash inflow, is
directly dependent upon the exercise of options and the value of shares of
priceline.com Common Stock at the time of exercise. As the decision to exercise
options is at the sole discretion of the holder of the options, the timing and
amount of the expense, income tax deduction and timing of the cash inflows
cannot be estimated.

      During July 1999, priceline.com issued to Continental Airlines a warrant
to purchase common stock that will become exercisable upon the earlier of July
2004 or upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds. However, the
agreement does not require Continental to make any performance commitments.
Accordingly, priceline.com incurred a non-cash charge of approximately $88.4
million during the third quarter of 1999 representing the fair value of the
warrant on the grant date. In November 1999, the Company amended the Continental
warrant to allow the exercise price to fall within the range of the warrants
issued to other airlines discussed below. Priceline.com incurred a non-cash
charge of approximately $3.5 million during the fourth quarter as a result of
the warrant amendment.

      In August 1998, priceline.com entered into a warrant agreement granting
Delta Airlines ("Delta") the right to purchase up to 18,892,603 shares of common
stock at an exercise price of approximately $0.93 per share. Vesting was
contingent upon achievement of certain predetermined performance thresholds.
However, there was no penalty for failure to provide ticket inventory to satisfy
these performance thresholds. Accordingly, no expense was recorded when the
warrant was issued. On December 31, 1998, priceline.com amended its agreement
with Delta to eliminate the vesting contingencies and fix the number of shares
subject to the warrant at 18,619,402. The amended warrant issued to Delta became
exercisable at the earlier of seven years or upon the achievement of certain
performance thresholds. However, the agreement did not require Delta to make any
performance commitments, is non-exclusive and allows Delta to participate in
other programs similar to the priceline.com service. Therefore, the Company
recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $58.7 million, reflecting the fair
value of the Delta warrant on December 31, 1998.

      In November 1999, the Company further amended the Delta warrant to provide
Delta with a cashless exercise right. Upon the exercise of the warrant, Delta
acquired a total of 16,525,834 shares of




Common Stock of priceline.com. In conjunction with that transaction, Delta sold
2,085,767 shares of priceline.com Common Stock to priceline.com's founder and
Vice Chairman Jay S. Walker for an aggregate purchase price of $125 million. The
Company further gave Delta the right to exchange six million shares of
priceline.com Common Stock for six million shares of newly issued convertible
preferred stock that may be converted into priceline.com Common Stock on a
one-for-one basis. To date, Delta has not elected to exercise the conversion
right.

      In November 1999, the Company entered into separate Participation Warrant
Agreements with each of eight major domestic airlines relating to their
inclusion in the Company's leisure airline ticket service. Under the
Participation Warrant Agreements, the airlines were granted warrants to purchase
a total of 20 million shares of priceline.com Common Stock at exercise prices
ranging from $52.625 to $59.933 per share. All warrants were fully vested on the
date of grant, but generally are not exercisable until November 2005, subject to
acceleration under certain circumstances. Priceline.com incurred additional
warrant costs of approximately $1.1 billion during the fourth quarter as a
result of the issuance of the warrants.

Results of Operations

      Priceline.com did not commence operations until April 1998. Accordingly,
discussion of comparisons with the prior year is not meaningful.

Year Ended December 31, 1999

      Revenues

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Revenues.......................................   $482,410    $35,237     1,269%

      Revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999 were comprised primarily of:
(1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of airline tickets,
hotel rooms and rental cars; (2) fee income from adaptive marketing programs
offered in connection with our product offerings; (3) ancillary revenues
consisting primarily of Worldspan reservation booking fees and customer
processing fees; and (4) fee income from our home financing and auto programs.

      Revenues increased during 1999 as a result of the substantial development
of our unique customer base, repeat purchases by existing customers and the
inclusion of the hotel room, rental car, automobile, and home financing services
and adaptive marketing programs. The Company has launched certain of its
services in select geographic markets and then expanded to other regions. During
1999, the Company's hotel room reservation service expanded from 25 cities to
nationwide coverage. The Company's auto program was launched in the New York
City area and expanded to cover 26 states at December 31, 1999. The Company's
rental car service was launched nationally during the fourth quarter. The
Company currently plans to launch its products for long distance telephone
services, cruises and vacation packages during 2000. The Company believes each
of these products has the potential to increase revenues in 2000.

      As of December 31, 1999 priceline.com had a base of approximately 3.8
million unique customers. A unique customer is defined as someone who has made a
guaranteed offer for at least one of priceline.com's products. Of the total
unique customer base, approximately 3.0 million made their first offer on
priceline.com during 1999. During 1999, priceline.com customers made
approximately 4.3 million offers for services.




      Ancillary revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999 increased as a
result of volume driven increases in Worldspan reservation booking fees and the
introduction of a customer processing fee in the airline and hotel services.
Fee-based income and ancillary revenues represented 8.4% of total revenues for
the year ended December 31, 1999.

      Product Costs and Gross Profit

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Product Costs..................................   $424,579    $36,525     1,062%
% of Revenues..................................        88%       104%
Gross Profit...................................    $57,831   $(1,288)     4,590%
Gross Margin...................................      12.0%     (4.0)%

      For the year ended December 31, 1999, product costs were comprised of (1)
the cost of airline tickets from our suppliers, net of the federal air
transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in
connection with the sale of airline tickets; (2) the cost of hotel rooms from
our suppliers, net of hotel tax; and (3) supplier warrant costs that represent a
non-cash expense related to the issuance of common stock warrants to one of our
airline program participants in January 1999. We anticipate that we will
recognize additional non-cash supplier warrant costs in the amount of
approximately $381,000 in each of the next four fiscal quarters.

      Gross profit is comprised of revenues less cost of revenues. Excluding the
effect of non-cash supplier warrant costs for the year ended December 31, 1999,
the Company had gross profit of $59.4 million. During 1999, gross profit was
positive as a result of the transactional sales volumes that were sold at
positive margins, and the launch of products generating fee-based revenues.
Because fee-based and ancillary revenues generally do not involve separate
costs, these revenues had a disproportionately positive impact on total gross
profit and made a substantial contribution to gross profit for the year ended
December 31, 1999.

      For the year ended December 31, 1999, gross margin increased each quarter
as a result of increased sales volume, increased fee-based revenue and decreased
sales of tickets that were sold below cost. Fee-based revenues, such as adaptive
marketing revenues, ancillary revenues and revenues from financial services and
automobiles generate higher margins than transaction revenues, on which the
gross margin generated is derived from the spread between customer payments and
product costs.

      The Company expects that gross profit and gross margin will improve in the
first quarter of 2000 as a result of anticipated consumer demand sufficient to
allow the Company to increase revenues while selling its products at increasing
positive margins. As a result of this anticipated growth, the Company expects
the proportion of its gross profit and gross margin attributable to adaptive
marketing revenues to decline.

      Operating Expenses

Warrant Costs, Net

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Warrant Costs, Net.............................   $998,832    $57,979     1,623%




      Warrant costs, net consist of the fair value of warrants issued to airline
suppliers during 1999, as discussed above. Such costs were partially offset by
warrant income of $188.8 million recognized in the fourth quarter as a result of
the receipt of warrants to purchase common stock of WebHouse.

Sales and Marketing

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Sales & Marketing..................................$79,577    $24,388    226.3%
% of Revenues......................................  16.5%      69.2%

      Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999
consisted primarily of: (1) advertising and promotions; (2) credit card
processing fees; (3) fees payable to a third party service provider that
operates priceline.com's call center; (4) compensation for priceline.com's sales
and marketing personnel; and (5) provisions for customer charge-backs (based
upon a percentage reflecting priceline.com's historical experience). The Company
plans to continue to invest heavily in advertising and other marketing programs
and expects that all marketing costs will increase. However, with the exception
of processing fees and provisions for customer accommodations and charge-backs,
which the Company anticipates will grow proportionately with transaction based
revenue, the Company anticipates that the other marketing costs will decrease as
a percentage of revenues as the result of anticipated revenue growth.

General and Administrative

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
General & Administrative.......................    $27,609    $18,004      53.3%
% of Revenues..................................       5.7%      51.1%

      General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999
were comprised primarily of compensation for personnel, fees for outside
professionals, telecommunications and other overhead costs, including occupancy
expense. The year ended December 31, 1999 included a charge of $1,812 relating
to option payroll taxes resulting from the exercise of employee stock options.
Excluding this expense, general and administrative expense was 5.3% of sales for
the year ended December 31, 1999. Excluding this charge, general and
administrative expenses increased as a result of increased payroll and overhead
costs associated with the expansion of our product offerings and increases in
our revenue base.

Systems and Business Development

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Systems & Business Development................     $14,023    $11,132     26.0%
% of Revenues.................................        2.9%      31.6%

      Systems and business development expenses for the year ended December 31,
1999 were comprised primarily of: (1) compensation to our information technology
and product development staff; (2) payments to outside contractors; (3) data
communications and other expenses associated with operating priceline.com's Web
site; and (4) depreciation and amortization on computer hardware and software.
During 1999, systems and business development expenses increased due to
increased payroll costs, increased depreciation and amortization resulting from
increased capital expenditures and




increased development costs associated with the expansion of priceline.com's
product offerings and technological infrastructure. As the Company depends on
its web site and internal systems to operate, it expects to continue to invest
significantly on the systems and business development area.

      In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1, "Accounting for Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This SOP requires
capitalization of certain costs of computer software developed or obtained for
internal use. Priceline.com adopted this SOP on January 1, 1999 and, during the
year ended December 31, 1999, priceline.com capitalized approximately $13.9
million of computer software developed or obtained for internal use.
Amortization of such costs aggregated approximately $1.1 million during the year
ended December 31, 1999.

      Other Income, Net

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                                        ($000)
                                                  -------------------       %
                                                    1999        1998     Change
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Other Income (Net)...........................       $7,120       $548     1,199%

      Other income, net, for the year ended December 31, 1999 was primarily
comprised of interest income. Interest income on cash and marketable securities
increased due to higher cash and cash equivalent balances resulting from our
initial public offering of common stock in April of 1999 and our secondary
public offering of common stock in August of 1999.

Year Ended December 31, 1998

      Priceline.com was formed in July 1997, but did not commence operations
until April 1998. Accordingly, comparisons with prior periods are not
meaningful.

      Revenues

      Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1998 were $35.2 million.
Since commencement of operations in April 1998, essentially all revenues
consisted of airline ticket sales, hotel room reservations and related adaptive
marketing programs. Priceline.com's automobile sales service, which was launched
on a test basis in the New York metropolitan area in July 1998, did not
contribute materially to revenues during the period.

      Product Costs and Gross Profit (Loss)

      Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 1998 totaled $36.5
million, consisting of product costs of $33.5 million and supplier warrant costs
of $3.0 million. Product costs represent the cost of airline tickets from
priceline.com's suppliers, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment
fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of
airline tickets. Supplier warrant costs represent a non-cash expense related to
the pro-rata amount of the Delta warrant earned prior to December 31, 1998, the
date on which the Delta warrant was amended.

      Gross profit (loss), which is comprised of revenues less cost of revenues,
was $(1.3) million for the year ended December 31, 1998. Excluding the effect of
the non-cash supplier warrant costs, priceline.com would have had gross profit
of $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. In 1998, priceline.com
sold a substantial number of tickets below its cost in order to increase airline
and adaptive marketing revenues, build a record of successful transactions, and
enhance the priceline.com brand. Because the fees generated by adaptive
marketing programs have historically involved no separate costs, adaptive
marketing revenues had a disproportionately positive impact on priceline.com's
total gross margin. The Capital One adaptive marketing program accounted for all
of priceline.com's adaptive marketing revenues in 1998.




      Operating Expenses

      Warrant Cost, net. Warrant costs, net for the year ended December 31, 1998
totaled $58.0 million, or 164.5% of revenues. Supplier start up warrant costs
consist of a non-cash charge representing the fair value of warrants issued to
certain participating airlines in the priceline.com service in connection with
securing the airline's participation in the priceline.com service.

      Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended
December 31, 1998 totaled $24.4 million, or 69.2% of revenues. The expenses were
comprised of: (1) advertising and promotional items; (2) fees payable to a third
party service provider, which operates priceline.com's call center; (3) credit
card processing fees; (4) provisions for customer credit card charge-backs
(based upon a percentage reflecting priceline.com's historical experience); and
(5) compensation for priceline.com's sales and marketing personnel.

      General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses for the
year ended December 31, 1998 totaled $18.0 million or 51.1% of revenues. General
and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation for personnel,
fees for outside professionals, telecommunications and other overhead costs,
including occupancy expense. In July 1998, priceline.com issued 8,125,000 shares
of Common Stock, to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer that resulted in
the recognition of a charge of $6.5 million with respect to these shares. The
shares were issued as compensation for agreeing to accept the position.

      Systems and Business Development. Systems and business development
expenses for the year ended December 31, 1998 totaled $11.1 million, or 31.6% of
revenues. Systems and business development expenses are comprised primarily of
compensation to priceline.com's information technology and product development
staff and payments to outside contractors, data communications and other
expenses associated with operating priceline.com's Web site and, to a lesser
extent, depreciation on computer hardware and licensing fees for computer
software.

      Other Income, Net

      Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 1998 totaled $548,374,
reflecting approximately $633,000 of interest income earned by priceline.com on
its cash balances, net of interest expense for the period.

Period Ended December 31, 1997

      During the period from its formation in July 1997 through December 31,
1997, priceline.com was engaged in start-up activities and incurred $2.5 million
of operating expenses. These operating expenses primarily consisted of
investments in technology and personnel related expenses. No revenues were
earned during the period.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

      At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately $171.9 million in cash
and cash equivalants, and short-term investments.

      Net cash used in operating activities was $63.0 million, $40.9 million and
$774,000 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and for the period July
18 (inception) through December 31, 1997, respectively. Net cash used in
operating activities was primarily attributable to net losses.

      Net cash used in investing activities was $68.2 million, $6.6 million and
$1.3 million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and for the period
July 18 (inception) through December 31, 1997, respectively. Net cash used in
investing activities was primarily related to purchases of property and
equipment, and in 1999 for investments in marketable securities.




      Priceline.com has certain commitments for capital expenditures as part of
its ongoing business cycle. None of these commitments are material to the
financial statements either individually or in the aggregate. Capital
expenditures, primarily for computer equipment and software, were $27.4 million
for the year ended December 31, 1999. As a result of its rapid growth,
priceline.com expects to increase capital expenditures for purchased computer
hardware, internally developed software, other equipment and leasehold
improvements.

      Net cash provided by financing activities was $210.8 million, $101.1
million and $2.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and for
the period July 18 (inception) through December 31, 1997, respectively. Net cash
provided by financing activities resulted primarily from the issuance of equity
securities referred to below.

      In April 1999, priceline.com completed its initial public offering in
which it sold 10,000,000 shares of its Common Stock at a price of $16.00 per
share. Offering proceeds to priceline.com, net of approximately $11.2 million in
aggregate underwriters' discounts and commissions and $4.5 million in related
expenses, were approximately $144.3 million. In August 1999, priceline.com
completed a public offering in which it sold 1,000,000 shares of its Common
Stock at a price of $67.00 per share. Offering proceeds to priceline.com, net of
approximately $2.5 million in aggregate underwriters' discounts and commissions
and $2.0 million in related expenses, were approximately $62.5 million.

      During 1997, priceline.com's initial equity capital of approximately $27.0
million was provided by Mr. Jay S. Walker, other high net worth individuals and
a partnership affiliated with General Atlantic Partners, LLC, a private equity
firm that invests worldwide in software and information technology companies. An
additional $20.0 million was invested by two partnerships affiliated with
General Atlantic in July 1998. In December 1998, priceline.com sold equity
securities in a private offering to a group of corporate and institutional
investors and high net worth individuals for approximately $54.4 million.
Included in that group were two partnerships affiliated with General Atlantic;
Vulcan Ventures, Incorporated; Liberty PL, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
Liberty Media Corporation; Quantum Industrial Partners LDC, a fund managed by
Soros Fund Management, LLC and Allen & Company Incorporated. Allen & Company
Incorporated also has served as priceline.com's financial advisor.

      In April 1999, priceline.com made a $3.3 million loan to Mr. Richard S.
Braddock for the payment of taxes related to the issuance to Mr. Braddock of
8,125,000 shares of common stock in August 1998. The loan bears interest at
5.28% per annum. Interest is payable annually and principal is payable in
January 2004.

      In July 1999, priceline.com made a $6.0 million loan to an executive of
the Company, pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement dated June 14,
1999. The loan bears interest annually at 5.82% per annum. In the first quarter
of 2000, priceline.com made loans to two executives aggregating $5.0 million,
which bear interest at 6.56%. Subject to certain prepayment obligations and to
forgiveness in the event of certain changes of control, death, or termination
without cause, pursuant to the terms of these loans, accrued interest and
principal are payable after five years, but are forgiven under certain
circumstances if the executive remains employed by the Company at that time.
Upon any forgiveness of the loans, the Company would recognize as compensation
expense an amount up to the amount of principal and interest forgiven.

      Priceline.com believes that its existing cash balances and liquid
resources will be sufficient to fund its operating activities, capital
expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months.
However, if during that period or thereafter, priceline.com is not successful in
generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital
when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to priceline.com,
these failures could have a material adverse effect on priceline.com's business,
results of operations and financial condition. If additional funds were raised




through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of its
then-current stockholders would be diluted.

Market-related Risks

      Priceline.com currently has no floating rate indebtedness, holds no
derivative instruments other than through investments in licensees discussed
above, and does not earn significant foreign-sourced income. Accordingly,
changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates do not generally have a
direct effect on priceline.com's financial position. However, changes in
currency exchange rates may affect the cost of international airline tickets and
international hotel room reservations offered through the priceline.com service,
and so indirectly affect consumer demand for such products and priceline.com's
revenue. In addition, to the extent that changes in interest rates and currency
exchange rates affect general economic conditions, priceline.com would also be
affected by such changes.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

      In July 1999, the FASB issued Statement No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-Deferral of Effective Date of FASB
No. 133". The Statement defers for one year the effective date of FASB Statement
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". The
rule now will apply to fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000. In June 1998, SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" was issued. The statement will require the recognition of
all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and the
measurement of those instruments at fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges
must be adjusted to fair value through income. If the derivative is a hedge,
depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of derivatives
will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets,
liabilities, or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value will be immediately
recognized in earnings. The Company has not yet determined the effect of SFAS
No. 133 will have on the earnings and financial position of the Company.

      In 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, "Accounting
for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This
standard requires certain direct development costs associated with internal-use
software to be capitalized including external direct costs of material and
services and payroll costs for employees devoting time to the software projects.
These costs are included in software and are amortized over a period not to
exceed three years beginning when the asset is substantially ready for use.
Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and
training costs, are expensed as incurred.

Tax Matters

Federal Air Transportation Tax on Airline Ticket Sales

      A Federal transportation tax is imposed upon the sale of airline tickets.
The tax is based on a percentage of the cost of transportation, which was 9% for
periods prior to October 1, 1998, 8% for the period October 1, 1998 through
September 30, 1999 and 7.5% thereafter. The Company has historically interpreted
the tax regulations as requiring that the tax be computed based on the amount
charged by the airline to priceline.com for the airline ticket and the Company's
participating airlines have collected and remitted the tax based on this
amounts. The Company applied for a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the
"Service") confirming this interpretation. In December 1999, the Service
indicated to the Company that it was unlikely that a favorable ruling would be
issued. The Company subsequently withdrew its ruling request because of the
uncertainty of the outcome. Because the Company anticipated the possibility of
an adverse ruling on this issue, the Company accrued




approximately $1.9 million relating to the balance of the tax liability for
tickets sold prior to that date. The Company believes this accrual to be
adequate but there can be no assurance as to the final outcome because a formal
ruling has not been issued by the service.

Non-Qualified Stock Options

      As of December 31, 1999, we had outstanding non-qualified stock options to
purchase 27,024,740 shares issued to various employees, consultants and
directors pursuant to the 1997 Omnibus Plan and the 1999 Omnibus Plan. The
options entitle holders to purchase common stock at a weighted average exercise
price of approximately $13.93 per share, subject to adjustment in accordance
with the 1997 Omnibus Plan and the 1999 Omnibus Plan.

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

      The following disclosure may be deemed "Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure"
pursuant to the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act.

      Since inception, the Company has dedicated substantial resources to
address the potential issues related to Year 2000 programming and related
concerns. As a result of these efforts, the Company has not experienced to date
any material disruption in its operations in connection with, or following, the
transition of Year 2000.

      Since the Company was cognizant of Year 2000 issues during the development
of its systems and products since inception, specific costs related to Year 2000
issues can not be quantified. There were no material additional costs incurred
to make any previously existing product or services Year 2000 compliant.

Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements

See "Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements."

- --------




Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

      Priceline.com currently has no floating rate indebtedness, holds no
derivative instruments other than through investments in licensees described in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K and does not earn significant foreign-sourced
income. Accordingly, changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates do not
generally have a direct effect on priceline.com's financial position. However,
changes in currency exchange rates may affect the cost of international airline
tickets and international hotel reservations offered through the priceline.com
service, and so indirectly affect consumer demand for such products and
priceline.com's revenue. In addition, to the extent that changes in interest
rates and currency exchange rates affect general economic conditions,
priceline.com would also be affected by such changes.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      The following financial statements of the Company and the independent
auditors' report are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (See Item
14):

      Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998; Statements
of Operations , Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 1999, December 31, 1998 and the period July 18, 1997
(inception) to December 31, 1997; Notes to Financial Statements; Independent
Auditors' Report.

Item 9. Changes and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
        Disclosure

      None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information regarding the Company's directors and executive officers and
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, required by Part III, Item 10, is included in the Company's Proxy
Statement relating to the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
April 24, 2000, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

      Information required by Part III, Item 11, is included in the Company's
Proxy Statement relating to the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on April 24, 2000, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Information required by Part III, Item 12, is included in the Company's
Proxy Statement relating to the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on April 24, 2000, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

- ----------




      Information regarding certain of the Company's relationships and related
transactions is included in the Company's Proxy Statement relating to the
Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 24, 2000, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)   List of Documents Filed as a Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

      The following financial statements of the Company and the independent
      auditors' report are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998; and the
      related Statements of Operations , Changes in Stockholders' Equity and
      Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1999, December 31, 1998 and
      the period July 18, 1997 (inception) to December 31, 1997; Notes to
      Financial Statements; Independent Auditors' Report.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K:

      On October 14, 1999, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K announcing
      that the Company filed a suit in U.S. District Court against Microsoft
      Corporation and its Expedia Inc. subsidiary, claiming that Expedia.com's
      hotel service infringes on the Company's U.S. Patent No. 5,794,207. The
      suit also charges that Microsoft's conduct is in violation of the
      Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act.

      On November 18, 1999, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K announcing
      that United Airlines, American Airlines and US Airways had agreed to
      become participating carriers in the priceline.com Name Your Own Price(sm)
      airline ticket service.

(c)   Exhibits

      The exhibits listed below are filed as a part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Exhibit Number                          Description
- --------------                          -----------
2.1*              Agreement of Merger, dated as of July 31, 1998, between
                  priceline.com LLC and the Registrant.
3.1*              Form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
                  the Registrant.
3.2*              Form of By-Laws of the Registrant.
4.1               Reference is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.
4.2*              Specimen Certificate for Registrant's Common Stock.
4.3*              Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as
                  of December 8, 1998, among the Registrant and certain
                  stockholders of the Registrant.
10.1.1*           1997 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.
10.1.2*           1999 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.
10.2*             Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July 31, 1998, among the
                  Registrant and the investors named therein, as amended.
10.3*             Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 8, 1998, among
                  the Registrant and the investors named therein, as amended.
10.4              Reference is hereby made to Exhibit 4.3.
10.5*             Purchase and Intercompany Services Agreement, dated April 6,
                  1998, among the Registrant, Walker Asset Management Limited
                  Partnership, Walker Digital




Exhibit Number                          Description
- --------------                          -----------
                  Corporation and Priceline Travel, Inc.
10.6.1*           Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1998, between Jay
                  S. Walker, Walker Digital Corporation, the Registrant and
                  Jesse M. Fink.
10.6.2*           Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated November 16,
                  1998 between the Registrant and Jesse M. Fink.
10.7.1*           Employment Agreement, dated as of July 23, 1998, between the
                  Registrant and Timothy G. Brier.
10.7.2*           Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated November 16,
                  1998, between the Registrant and Timothy G. Brier.
10.8*             Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of August
                  15, 1998, by and between the Registrant and Richard S.
                  Braddock.
10.9*             Airline Participation Agreement, dated April 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Trans World
                  Airlines, Inc.
10.10*+           Airline Participation Agreement, dated October 2, 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Northwest
                  Airlines, Inc.
10.11.1*+         General Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and among the
                  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.2*+         Airline Participation Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air
                  Lines, Inc.
10.11.3*+         Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and the
                  General Agreement, dated December 31, 1998, between and among
                  the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines,
                  Inc.
10.11.4***        Letter Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between the Registrant
                  and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.5           Master Agreement, dated November 17, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.6           Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and the
                  General Agreement, dated November 17, 1999, by and among the
                  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.7+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.12*+           Airline Participation Agreement, dated December 31, 1998, by
                  and among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and America
                  West Airlines.
10.13*+           Internet Marketing and Licensing Agreement, as of August 1,
                  1998, between the Registrant and LendingTree, Inc.
10.14*            Systems Access Agreement, dated as of August 4, 1997, between
                  the Registrant and WORLDPAN, L.P.
10.15*            Master Agreement for Outsourcing Call Center Support, dated as
                  of April 6, 1998, between the Registrant and CALLTECH
                  Communications, Incorporated.
10.16*            Form of Participation Warrant Agreement.
10.17.1*+         Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 31,
                  1998.
10.17.2*+         Amendment No. 1, dated as of February 4, 1999, to Warrant
                  Participation Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1999.
10.17.3*+         Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 3, 1999, to Participation
                  Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, as
                  previously amended to Amendment No. 1 to Warrant Participation
                  Agreement, dated as of February 4, 1999.
10.18***          Employment Agreement, dated as of June 14, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Daniel H. Schulman.
10.19.1***        Airline Participation Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between
                  the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.2***        Participation Warrant Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between
                  the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.3           First Amendment to Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as
                  of November 17, 1999, by and between the Registrant and
                  Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.4+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated November 17, 1999,
                  between the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.20****         License Agreement, dated July 20, 1999 between Walker Digital
                  Corporation and the Registrant.
10.21             Sublease, dated October 1999, between Oxford Health Plans,
                  Inc., as Sub-Landlord and the




Exhibit Number                          Description
- --------------                          -----------
                  Registrant, as Sub-Tenant, and Agreement of Lease, dated June
                  16, 1993, as amended, between Prudential Insurance Company of
                  America, as Landlord, and Oxford Health Plans, Inc., as
                  Tenant.
10.22.1           Securityholders' Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999,
                  among the Registrant, Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc., Walker
                  Digital, LLC and the Investors signatory thereto.
10.22.2+          Intellectual Property License Agreement, dated as of October
                  26, 1999, between the Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club,
                  Inc.
10.22.3+          Marketing and Technical Services Agreement, dated as of
                  October 26, 1999, between the Registrant and Priceline
                  WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.22.4+          Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.22.5+          Services Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.23.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 15,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and United Air Lines, Inc.
10.23.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 15,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and United Air Lines, Inc.
10.24.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and US Airways, Inc.
10.24.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and US Airways, Inc.
10.25.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and American Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.25.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and American Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.26+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and Trans World Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.27+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and Northwest Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.28+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and America West Airlines
10.29             Continuing Employment Agreement, dated as of December 16,
                  1999, between the Registrant and Melissa M. Taub.
12.1              Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
23.1              Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
27.1              Financial Data Schedule.

*     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-1 (Registration No.
      333-69657) filed in connection with priceline.com's initial public
      offering and incorporated herein by reference.

**    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q filed on May 17, 1999 and
      incorporated herein by reference.

***   Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-1 (Registration No.
      333-83513) filed in connection with priceline.com's secondary public
      offering and incorporated herein by reference.

****  Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q filed on November 15, 1999

+     Certain portions of this document have been omitted pursuant to a
      confidential treatment request.




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED
                                                                 Date
                                                                 ----

By: /s/ Richard S. Braddock                                 March 30, 2000
    -----------------------
Richard S. Braddock
Chairman of the Board
Chief Executive Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

By: /s/ Richard S. Braddock                                 March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Richard S. Braddock
Chairman of the Board
Chief Executive Officer

By: /s/ Thomas P. D'Angelo                                  March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Thomas P. D'Angelo
Principal Financial Officer
Principal Accounting Officer

By: /s/ Paul A. Allaire                                     March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Paul A. Allaire
Director

By: /s/ Ralph M. Bahna                                      March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Ralph M. Bahna
Director




By: /s/ Paul J. Blackney                                    March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Paul J. Blackney
Director


By: /s/ William E. Ford                                     March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
William E. Ford
Director


By: /s/ Marshall Loeb                                       March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Marshall Loeb
Director


By: /s/ Nicholas J. Nicholas, Jr.                           March 30, 2000
    -----------------------------
Nicholas J. Nicholas, Jr.
Director


By: /s/ Nancy B. Peretsman                                  March 30, 2000
    ----------------------                                  --------
Nancy B. Peretsman
Director

By: /s/Daniel H. Schulman                                   March 30, 2000
    ---------------------                                   --------
Daniel H. Schulman
President and Chief Operating Officer
Director

By: /s/Jay S. Walker                                        March 30, 2000
    ----------------                                        --------
Jay S. Walker
Vice Chairman, Director




                           PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED
                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                        Page No.
                                                                        --------

     Independent Auditor's Report.......................................  42

     Balance Sheets for the fiscal years ended December 31, 1999 and
          December 31, 1998.............................................  43

     Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended December 31,
          1999 and December 31, 1998 and for the period July 18, 1997
          (Inception) to December 31, 1997..............................  44

     Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the fiscal
          years ended December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998
          and for the period July 18, 1997 (Inception) to
          December 31, 1997.............................................  45

     Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended December 31,
          1999 and December 31, 1998 and for the period July 18, 1997
          (Inception) to December 31, 1997..............................  46

     Notes to Financial Statements......................................  47




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
priceline.com Incorporated

      We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of priceline.com
Incorporated (the "Company") as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related
statements of operations, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the period July 18, 1997
(inception) to December 31, 1997. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 1999 and
1998, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the period July 18, 1997 (inception) to December
31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Stamford, Connecticut
January 27, 2000
(March 17, 2000 as to Note 15)




                           priceline.com Incorporated
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (In thousands)



                       See notes to financial statements.




                           priceline.com Incorporated
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



                       See notes to financial statements.




                           priceline.com Incorporated
                 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
           FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 1998 AND FOR THE
             PERIOD JULY 18, 1997 (INCEPTION) TO DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                 (In thousands)



                       See notes to financial statements.




                           priceline.com Incorporated
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)



                       See notes to financial statements.




                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. BUSINESS DESCRIPTION

      Priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com", or the "Company") has
pioneered a unique e-commerce pricing system known as a "demand collection
system" that enables consumers to use the Internet to save money on a wide range
of products and services while enabling sellers to generate incremental revenue.
Using a simple and compelling consumer proposition-Name Your Own
Price(SM)-priceline.com collects consumer demand, in the form of individual
customer offers guaranteed by a credit card, for a particular product or service
at a price set by the customer. The Company then accesses a database of
inventory available to the Company for purchase to determine whether
priceline.com can fulfill the customer's offer. Consumers agree to hold their
offers open for a specified period of time and, once fulfilled, offers generally
cannot be canceled. The Company benefits consumers by enabling them to save
money, while at the same time benefiting sellers by providing them with an
effective revenue management tool capable of identifying and capturing
incremental revenues. By requiring consumers to be flexible with respect to
brands, sellers and product features, priceline.com enables sellers to generate
incremental revenue without disrupting their existing distribution channels or
retail pricing structures.

      Walker Digital Corporation ("Walker Digital"), a research and development
company, developed the priceline.com service and the business model and related
intellectual property rights underlying the priceline.com service, the rights
for which were transferred to the Company. Walker Digital had no operations and
no revenues related to the assets transferred to priceline.com. Walker Digital
was founded and is controlled by the founding stockholder and Vice Chairman of
priceline.com. During the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, Walker Digital
provided the Company with a variety of services including subleasing office
facilities to the Company. Charges to the Company for such services aggregated
approximately $1,411,000 and $706,000, respectively. In addition, the Company
charged Walker Digital $1,800,000 and $384,831 for the years ended December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively, for certain services, including legal and
accounting services and IT infrastructure. Such amounts have been offset against
general and administrative expenses in the accompanying statements of
operations.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      Basis of Presentation--The financial statements for all periods presented
include the financial statements of priceline.com and Priceline Travel. On March
24, 1999, priceline.com exercised its call option to purchase Priceline Travel
for nominal consideration and Priceline Travel was merged into priceline.com.
All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated.

      Use of Estimates--The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and reported amount of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

      Fair Value of Financial Instruments--The Company's financial instruments,
including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable-net and accounts
payable, are carried at cost which approximates their fair value because of the
short-term maturity of these financial instruments. The Company's investment in
Lending Tree, Inc. was valued at cost as there was no market for its securities
at December 31, 1999. The Company recognized income for the warrant to purchase
common stock of Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc. at estimated fair market value, as
determined by an independent valuation firm. The carrying value of the capital
lease obligations and long-term debt approximates fair value because the
interest




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

rates on these obligations are comparable to the interest rates that could have
been obtained at the dates of the respective balance sheets.

      Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Short-term Investments--The Company invests
excess cash primarily in money market accounts, certificates of deposits, and
short-term commercial paper. All highly liquid instruments with an original
maturity of three months or less are considered cash equivalents. Marketable
securities are considered "trading securities" and valued at fair value.

      Property and Equipment--Property and equipment are stated at historical
cost. Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment is computed on a
straight-line basis, generally over the estimated useful lives of the assets or,
when applicable, the life of the lease, whichever is shorter.

      Impairment of Long-Lived Assets--The Company evaluates the recoverability
of its long-lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards "SFAS" No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of." SFAS No. 121 requires recognition
of impairment of long-lived assets in the event the net book value of such
assets exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets.

      Software Capitalization--In 1999, the Company adopted Statement of
Position (SOP) 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use." This standard requires certain direct development
costs associated with internal-use software to be capitalized including external
direct costs of material and services and payroll costs for employees devoting
time to the software projects. These costs are included in software and are
amortized over a period not to exceed three years beginning when the asset is
substantially ready for use. Costs incurred during the preliminary project
stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred.

      Revenues and Cost of Revenues--The Company recognizes and records revenues
in a variety of ways depending on the product or service sold. With respect to
airline ticket, hotel room and rental car services, the Company recognizes as
revenue the amount received from the customer, net of taxes, and records as the
cost of revenue the amount that the Company pays the respective airline or
hotel. With respect to its automobile service, the Company earns a fixed fee
from both the customer and the seller after the transaction is consummated. With
respect to its home financing service, during 1999 the Company received a
percentage of the fees earned by third parties in connection with the closing of
mortgage loans. Going forward, the mortgage product will be offered through
National Mortgage Center LLC (doing business as pricelinemortgage (
"pricelinemortgage"), a Company that has been licensed to use the priceline.com
demand collection system. The Company also generates revenues through adaptive
marketing programs with third parties that pay the Company fees for marketing
their customer acquisition programs. Additionally, the Company generates
revenues from third party sources, including a customer processing fee for
airline, hotel and rental car services, and ancillary reservation booking fees
from the Worldspan reservation system for booking of airline flight segments and
hotel reservations through the Worldspan system. Consumer processing fees are
payable to the Company and recognized as revenue only upon completion of
successful transactions.

      The manner in which and time at which revenues are recognized differs
depending on the product or service sold through the priceline.com service. With
respect to airline ticket, hotel room and rental car services, revenues are
generated by transactions with customers who make offers to purchase airline
tickets and reserve hotel rooms and rental cars supplied to priceline.com by
participating sellers. Revenues and related costs are recognized if, and when,
the Company accepts and fulfills the




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

customer's offer. Because priceline.com is the merchant of record in these
transactions, revenue for these services includes the offer price paid by the
customer, net of certain taxes and fees. Airline, hotel and rental car revenues
also may include fees from third parties for adaptive marketing programs. With
respect to automobile services, fees or other payments payable by the seller and
/or the customer are recognized as revenue. With respect to home financing
services, the Company receives no fees from consumers. The Company recognizes
revenue from fees paid directly by its strategic partner through the operation
of its home financing services. Because the Company acts as an intermediary
between the customer and the seller in auto and home financing transactions,
revenues for these products and services are recorded at the amount of the fee
received, and not on the value of the underlying transaction, when the
transaction is completed. Automobile and home financing services revenues also
may include fees from third parties for adaptive marketing programs.

      Priceline.com expressly permits only credit cards as an acceptable form of
payment from its consumers. On rare occasions, the Company provides refunds and
makes certain customer accommodations to individual customers to satisfy
disputes and complaints. The Company accrues for such expected losses and
classifies the resulting expense as an addition to the allowance for doubtful
accounts. The Company extends customary payment terms to corporate customers
such as automobile dealers and adaptive marketing sponsors.

      Sales and Marketing--Sales and marketing expenses are comprised primarily
of costs of radio and newspaper advertising, costs of the third-party
offer-taking call center, credit card processing fees, provisions for customer
accommodations and charge-backs, and compensation for the Company's sales and
marketing personnel. All sales and marketing costs are expensed as incurred.

      Systems and Business Development--Systems and business development
expenses are comprised primarily of compensation to the Company's information
systems and product development staff and payments to outside contractors, data
communications and other expenses associated with operating the Company's Web
site, depreciation on computer hardware and licensing fees for computer
software. Such costs are expensed as incurred.

      Equity-Based Compensation--The Company accounts for stock-based employee
compensation arrangements in accordance with provisions of Accounting Principles
Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
complies with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation." Under APB Opinion No. 25, compensation expense is
based on the difference, if any, on the date of grant, between the fair value of
priceline.com's stock and the exercise price of the option.

      The Company accounts for equity instruments issued to non-employees in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 and Emerging Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue No. 96-18, "Accounting for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to
Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or
Services." All transactions in which goods or services are the consideration
received for the issuance of equity instruments are accounted for based on the
fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity
instrument issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. The measurement date
of the fair value of the equity instrument issued is the earlier of the date on
which the counterparty's performance is complete or the date on which it is
probable that performance will occur.

      Income Taxes--The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which requires recognition of
deferred tax liabilities and assets for the




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the
financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities
and assets are determined based on the temporary difference between the
financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using presently
enacted tax rates in effect. Valuation allowances are established when necessary
to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.

      During the period that priceline.com operated as an LLC, it was treated
substantially as a partnership for tax purposes and, accordingly, the tax effect
of its activities accrued to its members through July 1998.

      Net Loss Per Share--The Company computes basic and diluted earnings per
share in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128
("SFAS 128"), "Earnings per Share". SFAS 128 requires the Company to report both
basic earnings per share, which is based on the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding, and diluted earnings per share, which is based on the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding and all dilutive potential
common shares outstanding. Since the Company incurred losses for all periods
presented, the inclusion of options in the calculation of weighted average
common shares is anti-dilutive; and therefore there is no difference between
basic and diluted earnings per share.

      Business Risk--Business risks include the following:

      Competition--The markets for the products and services offered on the
priceline.com service are intensely competitive. The Company competes with both
traditional distribution channels and online services. The Company currently or
potentially competes with a variety of companies with respect to each product or
services offered. The Company potentially faces competition from a number of
large online services that have expertise in developing online commerce and in
facilitating Internet traffic. Many competitors have significant competitive
advantages. For example, airlines, hotels and other suppliers also sell their
products and services directly to consumers and have established Web sites.
Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers have
significantly greater operating histories, customer bases, technical expertise,
brand recognition and/or online commerce experience than the Company. In
addition, certain competitors may be able to devote significantly greater
resources to furthering their business.

      Dependence on Airline Industry and Certain Carriers--The Company's near
term, and possibly long term, prospects are significantly dependent upon the
sale of leisure airline tickets. Sales of leisure airline tickets represented
approximately 85% and 86% of total revenues for the years ended December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively. As a result, currently the Company is substantially
dependent upon the continued participation of the airlines in the priceline.com
service in order to maintain and continue to grow its total revenues.
Significantly reducing the Company's dependence on the airlines is likely to
take a long period of time and there can be no guarantee that the Company will
succeed in reducing that dependence.

      Concentration of Credit Risk--Financial instruments, which potentially
subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, are principally bank
deposits and accounts receivable. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities are deposited with high credit quality financial institutions.
Accounts receivable are derived from the revenues earned from customers in the
U.S. and are denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company maintains an allowance for
uncollectible accounts based upon the expected collectibility of accounts
receivable.




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

      Barter Transaction--In 1999, the Company entered into one barter
transaction to exchange services for advertising. The transaction was recorded
at the estimated fair value of the services expected to be received. Revenue of
$375,000 from this transaction was recognized in 1999, when the service was
provided and will be expensed during 2000, when the advertising is provided to
priceline.com.

      Segment Reporting--The Company operates as a single segment and will
evaluate additional segment disclosure requirements as it expands its
operations. All of the operations and identifiable assets are in the United
States.

      Reclassification--Certain amounts in prior years' financial statements
have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

      Recent Accounting Pronouncements

      In July 1999, the FASB issued Statement No. 137, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-Deferral of Effective Date of FASB
No. 133". The Statement defers for one year the effective date of FASB Statement
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". The
rule now will apply to fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000. In June 1998, SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" was issued. The statement will require the recognition of
all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and the
measurement of those instruments at fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges
must be adjusted to fair value through income. If the derivative is a hedge,
depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of derivatives
will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets,
liabilities, or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value will be immediately
recognized in earnings. The Company has not yet determined the effect of SFAS
No. 133 will have on the earnings and financial position of the Company.

3. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

      At December 31, 1999, the Company held short term instruments which were
classified as trading securities; accordingly, they are carried at fair value on
the balance sheet. Net unrealized gains (losses) of $13,000 have been recognized
in the financial statements. Marketable securities at December 31, 1999 include
the following (in thousands):


                                                              December 31, 1999
                                                              -----------------
                                                                    Fair
                                                                    Value
                                                              -----------------
Discounted commercial paper.............................           $22,578
Asset backed securities.................................             3,443
Municipal bonds and notes...............................            12,750
                                                                   -------
                                                                   $38,771
                                                                   =======

      Included in other assets is a $2.0 million equity investment in Lending
Tree, Inc., an internet-based home financing service provider. Since the Company
owns less than 20% of Lending Tree and does not exert significant influence over
the investee, the Company accounts for the investment on the cost basis. In
accordance with SFAS No. 115, the Company deems these securities as available
for sale. Because there was no readily determinable value for shares of Lending
Tree at December 31, 1999, the Company has valued its investment at cost. The
Company's home financing service is offered through a joint marketing
arrangement with Lending Tree.




                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

4. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

      A summary of the activity in the allowance for uncollectible accounts for
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 is as follows (in thousands):

                                                              1999    1998
                                                             ------  -----
Balance, beginning of year...............................    $  291   $ --
Provision charged to expense.............................     3,127    581
Charge-offs..............................................    (1,457)  (290)
                                                             ------   ----
Balance, end of year.....................................    $1,961   $291
                                                             ======   ====

5. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

      Property and equipment at December 31, 1999 and 1998 consists of the
following (in thousands):

                                              Estimated
                                             Useful Lives
                                               (years)        1999      1998
                                             ------------   -------    ------
Computer equipment and software............       3         $33,242    $7,034
Office equipment, furniture & fixtures and
  leasehold improvements...................    3 to 7         2,173       965
                                                            -------    ------
Total......................................                  35,415     7,999
Less accumulated depreciation and
  amortization.............................                  (7,409)   (2,072)
                                                            -------    ------
Property and equipment, net................                 $28,006    $5,927
                                                            =======    ======

      Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $5,337,000,
$1,860,000 and $212,000 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, and for
the period July 18, 1997 to December 31, 1997, respectively.

6. LONG TERM DEBT

      In April 1998, priceline.com issued a promissory note to an investor for
$1,000,000. The promissory note bore interest at a rate of 6% per annum. In
connection with the promissory note, priceline.com issued detachable warrants to
purchase 62,500 shares of common stock at $0.80 per share. The note was repaid
in 1999.

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

      In March 1999, the Company effected a 1.25:1 stock split. All share and
per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.

      On July 18, 1997, priceline.com issued 42,990,211 shares of Common Stock
for the initial contributed services of the founders. No compensation expense
was recognized for the contributed services as priceline.com was in the earliest
phases of development. Such services included conceiving the priceline.com
business model, developing business strategies and operating plans, initiating
contact with airline suppliers and raising capital. There were no employment
agreements related to the services initially contributed and/or the shares
issued in respect of such shares.

      Also, on July 18, 1997, priceline.com issued 6,895,833 shares of Common
Stock to Walker Digital in exchange for the transfer by Walker Digital to
priceline.com of all the rights, title, and interest in certain patents and
patent applications relating to buyer driven commerce.




                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)

      In April 1998, priceline.com issued warrants to purchase 125,000 shares of
Common Stock, at a zero exercise price, to a non-employee in exchange for
services rendered to the Company. The estimated fair value of the warrants at
the date of grant of $100,000 was based on the value of the equivalent shares as
of the grant date, that is 125,000 shares at $0.80 per share, and has been
reflected as sales and marketing expense and additional paid-in-capital.

      In July 1998, priceline.com issued 8,125,000 shares of Common Stock, to
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer that resulted in the recognition of a
charge of $6,500,000 with respect to these shares. The shares were issued as
compensation for agreeing to accept the position.

      In April 1999, the Company completed an initial public offering in which
it sold 10,000,000 shares of its Common Stock, $0.008 par value. Offering
proceeds to the Company, net of underwriter discounts and commissions and other
related expenses, were approximately $144.3 million. At the time of the
offering, shares of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock were automatically
converted, subject to anti-dilution adjustment, into an equal number of shares
of Common Stock.

      In August 1999, the Company completed a public offering in which it sold
1,000,000 shares of its Common Stock and certain stockholders of the Company
sold 3,500,000 shares of common stock at a price of $67.00 per share. Offering
proceeds to priceline.com, net of underwriters discounts and commissions and
related expenses, were approximately $62.5 million.

8. WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK

      In August 1998, priceline.com entered into a warrant agreement with Delta
Air Lines ("Delta") to purchase up to 18,892,603 shares of Common Stock at an
exercise price of approximately $0.93 per share (the "Delta Warrant") for
agreeing to participate in the priceline.com service. Vesting was contingent
upon achievement of certain predetermined performance thresholds. However, there
was no penalty for failure to provide ticket inventory to satisfy these
performance thresholds. Accordingly, no expense was recorded when the warrant
was issued. On December 31, 1998, the Company amended its agreement with Delta
to eliminate the vesting contingencies and fix the number of shares subject to
the warrant at 18,619,402. The warrants were immediately vested on the date of
grant, in that they are not subject to any forfeiture for any reason. The
amended Delta Warrant was to become exercisable at the earlier of seven years or
over three years upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds. The
agreement does not require Delta to make any performance commitments, is
non-exclusive and allows Delta to participate in other programs similar to the
priceline.com service. Accordingly, the Company recognized approximately $58.7
million of expense based upon the fair value of the warrant on December 31,
1998, of which $3.0 million is included in cost of revenues-supplier warrant
costs and $55.7 million is included in expenses-warrant costs, net in the
accompanying statements of operations.

      In November 1999, the Company further amended the Delta warrant to provide
Delta with a cashless exercise right. Upon the exercise of the warrant, Delta
acquired a total of 16,525,834 shares of Common Stock of priceline.com. In
conjunction with that transaction, Delta sold 2,085,767 shares of priceline.com
Common Stock to priceline.com's founder and Vice Chairman Jay S. Walker for an
aggregate purchase price of $125 million. The Company further gave Delta the
right to exchange six million shares of priceline.com common stock for six
million shares of newly issued convertible preferred stock that may be converted
into priceline.com stock on a one-for-one basis. To date, Delta has not elected
to exercise the conversion right.




                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

8. WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK (Continued)

      On December 31, 1998, priceline.com issued warrants to purchase 937,500
shares of Common Stock, at an exercise price of $3.20 per share, to three
airlines in recognition of their being among the original participants in the
priceline.com service. Because there are no requirements as to the nature or
length of that participation, and the warrants are not subject to forfeiture for
any reason, the Company recognized approximately $2.3 million of expense based
upon the fair value of the warrants at December 31, 1998. That amount is
included in expenses- warrant costs, net in the accompanying statements of
operations.

      On January 29, 1999, priceline.com issued warrants to an airline to
purchase 1,250,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $6.40 per
share. The warrants become exercisable as follows, 50% on January 29, 2000 and
50% on January 29, 2001. The agreement requires the airline to make available to
priceline.com airline ticket inventory on certain specified terms and conditions
for two years. If the airline does not provide the specified airline ticket
inventory, the unexercised warrants are returnable and a substantial penalty
will be imposed. The fair value of the warrant of $3.1 million at the grant date
was capitalized and will be amortized over the two year period during which
services are expected to be provided to the Company.

      During July 1999, priceline.com issued to Continental Airlines a warrant
to purchase common stock that will become exercisable upon the earlier of July
2004 or upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds. However, the
agreement does not require Continental to make any performance commitments.
Accordingly, priceline.com incurred a non-cash charge of approximately $88.4
million during the third quarter of 1999 representing the fair value of the
warrant on the grant date. In November 1999, the Company amended the Continental
warrant to allow the exercise price to fall within the range of the warrants
issued to other airlines discussed below. Priceline.com incurred a non-cash
charge of approximately $3.5 million during the fourth quarter as a result of
the warrant amendment.

      In November 1999, the Company entered into separate Participation Warrant
Agreements with each of eight major domestic airlines relating to their
inclusion in the Company's leisure airline ticket service. Under the
Participation Warrant Agreements, the airlines were granted warrants to purchase
a total of 20 million shares of priceline.com Common Stock at exercise prices
ranging from $52.625 to $59.933 per share. All warrants were fully vested on the
date of grant, but generally are not exercisable until November 2005, subject to
acceleration under certain circumstances. Priceline.com incurred additional
warrant costs of approximately $1.1 billion during the fourth quarter of 1999 as
a result of the issuance of these warrants.

9. STOCK OPTION PLANS

      In February 1999, the Company adopted the 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "1999
Plan"), which provides for grants of options as incentives and rewards to
encourage employees, officers, consultants and directors in the long term
success of the Company. In addition, the Company had previously adopted the 1997
Omnibus Plan (the "1997 Plan"). The 1999 Plan and 1997 Plan provide for grants
of options to purchase up to 9,375,000 and 23,875,000 shares of Common Stock,
respectively, at a purchase price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. Generally, options from both plans vest over three years from the date of
grant. Compensation expense for options granted to non-employees, included in




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

9. STOCK OPTION PLANS (Continued)

general and administrative, aggregated $0 and $245,063, during the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      The following summarizes the transactions pursuant to the Plan:



      No options were granted during 1997.

      The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1999:

                             OPTIONS OUTSTANDING           OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                   ------------------------------------   ----------------------
                     NUMBER        WEIGHTED    WEIGHTED      NUMBER     WEIGHTED
    RANGE OF       OUTSTANDING     AVERAGE     AVERAGE    EXERCISABLE   AVERAGE
    EXERCISE         AS OF        REMAINING    EXERCISE      AS OF      EXERCISE
     PRICES         12/31/99         LIFE       PRICE       12/31/99     PRICE
  -------------    ----------     ---------    --------   -----------   --------
  $ .80-$   .93    19,532,282        8.53       $  .81     16,171,502     $0.80
   3.20-  13.00     2,835,458        9.12         5.99        537,083      3.42
  46.75- 139.25     4,657,000        9.68        73.83             --        --
                   ----------        ----       ------     ----------     -----
  $ .80-$139.25    27,024,740        9.07       $13.93     16,708,585     $0.88
                   ==========        ====       ======     ==========     =====

      Had compensation costs been determined based upon the fair value at grant
date, the Company's pro forma net loss and pro forma net loss per share for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 would have been reported as follows (in
thousands, except per share amounts):

1999:                                                 Reported     Pro Forma
- ----                                                 ----------   ----------
Net loss...........................................  $1,055,090   $1,295,758
Net loss applicable to common shareholders.........   1,063,444    1,304,112
Basic and diluted loss per common share............        7.90         9.69




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

9. STOCK OPTION PLANS (Continued)

1998:                                                 Reported     Pro Forma
- ----                                                 ----------   ----------
Net loss...........................................    $112,243     $114,613
Net loss applicable to common shareholders.........     114,426      116,797
Basic and diluted loss per common share............        1.41         1.44

      The fair value of options granted during 1999 was determined on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes method. The weighted average fair value of
options granted during 1999 was estimated to be approximately $52.45, based on
the following assumptions: volatility of 107%, risk free interest rate of 5.9%,
an expected life of 3 years, and no dividends.

      The fair value of options granted during 1998 was determined on the date
of grant using the minimum value method. The weighted average fair value of
options granted during 1998 was estimated to be approximately $0.15, based on
the following assumptions: volatility of 0%, risk free interest rate of 6.0%, an
expected life of 3 years, and no dividends.

10. TAXES

      Income Taxes Through July 31, 1998, priceline.com operated as a limited
liability company and income taxes (benefits) accrued to the members.
Accordingly, no income taxes (benefits) were reflected in the accompanying
financial statements as of December 31, 1997 and for the period then ended.
Since converting from an LLC to a corporation in July 1998, the Company has
incurred net operating losses of approximately $1.1 billion, and accordingly, no
provision for income taxes is reflected in the accompanying statements of
operations.

      The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of deferred tax assets at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows (in
thousands):

                                                        1999             1998
                                                     ---------        ---------
Warrant costs ................................       $ 488,989        $  25,267
Net operating loss carryforwards .............         459,455            9,348
Start-up costs ...............................           2,300            2,988
Other ........................................          (2,801)             382
Less valuation allowance .....................        (947,943)         (37,985)
                                                     ---------        ---------
Deferred tax asset, net ......................       $      --        $      --
                                                     =========        =========

      A valuation allowance for the full amount of the net deferred tax asset
was recorded at December 31, 1999 and 1998 and represents the portion of tax
operating loss carryforwards and other items for which it is more likely than
not that the benefit of such items will not be realized. The




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

10. TAXES (Continued)

income tax benefit is different from the amount computed using applicable
statutory federal rates for the following reasons (in thousands):

                                                          1999           1998
                                                       ---------      ---------
Income tax benefit at federal statutory rate .....     $ 369,281      $  39,285
Adjustment due to:
  LLC status through July 31, 1998 ...............                       (7,090)
  State taxes and other ..........................        64,605          5,790
  Increase in valuation allowance ................      (433,886)       (37,985)
                                                       ---------      ---------
Income tax benefit ...............................     $      --      $      --
                                                       =========      =========

      Federal Air Transportation Tax--A Federal transportation tax is imposed
upon the sale of airline tickets. The tax is based on a percentage of the cost
of transportation, which was 9% for periods prior to October 1, 1998, 8% for the
period October 1, 1998 through September 30, 1999 and 7.5% thereafter. The
Company has historically interpreted the tax regulations as requiring that the
tax be computed based on the amount charged by the airline to priceline.com for
the airline ticket and the Company's participating airlines have collected and
remitted the tax based on this amount. The Company applied for a ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service (the "Service") confirming this interpretation. In
December 1999, the Service indicated to the Company that it was unlikely that a
favorable ruling would be issued. The Company subsequently withdrew its ruling
request because of the uncertainty of the outcome. Because the Company
anticipated the possibility of an adverse ruling on this issue, the Company
accrued approximately $1.9 million relating to the balance of the tax liability
for tickets sold prior to that date. The Company believes this accrual to be
adequate, but there can be no assurance as to the final outcome because a formal
ruling has not been issued by the service.

11. LICENSING, MARKETING and TECHNOLOGY AGREEMENTS

      In 1999, priceline.com licensed its name and demand collection system to
Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc. ("WebHouse") and agreed to provide certain
services to WebHouse. WebHouse is an independent company. Under the negotiated
agreements, priceline.com receives a royalty based on a percentage of WebHouse
revenues and payments for services at estimated fair value. The Company realized
$33,777 of royalty revenue in 1999. As an inducement to enter into a
relationship with WebHouse, priceline.com received a warrant to purchase a
majority of the shares of WebHouse common stock. The warrants are
non-forfeitable, fully vested upon grant, exercisable in five years or earlier
upon the occurrence of certain events, and do not require the performance of any
additional services. Upon receipt of the warrant in the fourth quarter,
priceline.com recognized $188.8 million of income representing the amount of the
estimated fair value of the warrants, based on an independent valuation.
Priceline.com is negotiating a similar arrangement with another independent
Licensee, Priceline Perfect Yardsale, Inc. ("Yardsale").

      Additionally, priceline.com and WebHouse entered into an Intellectual
Property License Agreement, Marketing and Technical Services Agreement and a
Services Agreement pursuant to which priceline.com provides certain marketing,
technology and other services to WebHouse and receives compensation at fair
value for services rendered. Accordingly, WebHouse paid the Company $1.65
million during 1999 under these agreements.




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

11. LICENSING, MARKETING and TECHNOLOGY AGREEMENTS (Continued)

      Priceline.com and Yardsale also entered into a preliminary agreement
pursuant to which priceline.com licenses its name and demand collection system
and provides certain marketing, technology and other services to Yardsale and
receives compensation at fair value for services rendered. The agreements with
Yardsale were not in effect until after January 1, 2000.

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

      Legal Proceedings On January 6, 1999, priceline.com received notice that a
third party patent applicant and patent attorney, Thomas G. Woolston,
purportedly had filed in December 1998 with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office a request to declare an interference between a patent
application filed by Woolston and priceline.com's U.S. Patent 5,794,207.
Priceline.com currently is awaiting information from the Patent Office regarding
whether it will initiate an interference proceeding.

      On January 19, 1999, Marketel International Inc. (Marketel), a California
corporation, filed a lawsuit against priceline.com, among others. On February
22, 1999, Marketel filed an amended and supplemental complaint. The amended
complaint filed by Marketel alleges causes of action for, among other things,
misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of contract, conversion, breach of
confidential relationship, copyright infringement, fraud, unfair competition and
false advertising, and seeks injunctive relief and damages in an unspecified
amount. In its amended complaint, Marketel alleges, among other things, that the
defendants conspired to misappropriate Marketel's business model, which
allegedly was provided in confidence approximately ten years ago. The amended
complaint also alleges that four former Marketel employees are the actual sole
inventors or co-inventors of U.S. Patent 5,794,207, which was issued on August
11, 1998 and has been assigned to priceline.com. Marketel asks that the patent's
inventorship be corrected accordingly.

      On February 5, and February 10, 1999, the Company filed their answer and
amended answer, respectively, to the amended complaint, in which they denied the
material allegations of liability in the complaint. Priceline.com strongly
dispute the material legal and factual allegations contained in Marketel's
amended complaint and believes that the amended complaint is without merit.
Priceline.com intends to defend vigorously against the action. Pursuant to the
indemnification obligations contained in the Purchase and Intercompany Services
Agreement with Walker Digital, Walker Digital has agreed to indemnify, defend
and hold harmless priceline.com for damages, liabilities and legal expenses
incurred in connection with the Marketel litigation.

      On October 13, 1999, priceline.com filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut under the caption Priceline.com
Incorporated v. Microsoft Corporation and Expedia, Inc., No. 399CV1991 (AWT)
alleging that Microsoft Corporation and Expedia, Inc., a subsidiary of Microsoft
Corporation, infringe priceline.com's U.S. Patent 5,794,207 by operating the
defendants' "Hotel Price Matcher" service, and that the defendants' conduct
toward priceline.com violated the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. On
December 20, 1999 defendants moved the Court to dismiss the complaint for
failure to name a necessary party, Marketel. On March 21, 2000, the presiding
judge stated that he intends to deny defendant's motion to dismiss, and that a
decision will be forthcoming. On December 23, 1999 the Court granted
priceline.com's motion to supplement the complaint to expressly include
defendant's "Flight Price Matcher" service. In the lawsuit, priceline.com is
seeking declaratory relief, permanent injunctive relief and actual and punitive
damages.

      From time to time the Company has been and expects to continue to be
subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, and
including claims of alleged infringement




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

of third party intellectual property rights by the Company. Such claims, even if
not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources.

      The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the legal proceedings
referred to above.

      Airline Alliances and Relationships Priceline.com has entered into Airline
Participation Agreements with twenty-eight airlines for the supply of airline
tickets. The Airline Participation Agreements do not commit the airlines to
provide tickets for any particular routes or at a discount to their retail
prices, but outline the terms and conditions under which tickets may be sold
pursuant to fares, rules and availability that the airlines may provide from
time to time. The Airline Participation Agreements are generally subject to
termination upon 30 days notice by priceline.com or the airline.

      Employment Contracts At December 31, 1999, priceline.com had entered into
employment agreements with certain members of senior management that provide for
minimum annual compensation of approximately $2.4 million in the aggregate. The
agreements provide for periods of employment of up to five years. Generally, the
agreements provide for the grant of stock options under the 1999 and 1997
Omnibus Plans.

13. BENEFIT PLAN

      Priceline.com adopted a defined contribution 401(k) savings plan (the
Plan) during 1998 covering all employees who are at least 21 years old and have
completed 6 months of service. The Plan allows eligible employees to contribute
up to 20% of their eligible earnings, subject to a statutorily prescribed annual
limit. The Company may make matching contributions on a discretionary basis to
the Plan. All participants are fully vested in their contributions and
investment earnings. During the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the
Company did not make any matching contributions to the Plan.

14. OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      The Founder and Vice Chairman of priceline.com also serves as
non-executive Chairman of NewSub Services, Inc. ("NewSub"), a direct marketing
company co-founded by him. The Company participates in certain adaptive
marketing programs with NewSub. During the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998, the Company recognized revenue of $202,322 and $0, respectively, and sales
and marketing expense of $579,338 and $80,799, respectively, related to these
programs.

      In June 1998, priceline.com issued a promissory note to a Walker Digital
for $1,000,000. The promissory note bore interest at a rate of 6% per annum and
was due June 30, 1999. The note has been repaid.

      In December 1998, priceline.com completed a private placement of Series B
Convertible Preferred Stock with several investors, including GAP and Vulcan
Ventures Incorporated. Fees of $850,000 have been paid to a company, in which a
director a priceline.com is a director and stockholder, in connection with this
transaction.

      In April 1999, priceline.com made a $3.3 million loan to Mr. Richard S.
Braddock for the payment of taxes related to the issuance to Mr. Braddock of
8,125,000 shares of common stock in August 1998. The loan bears interest at
5.28% per annum. Interest is payable annually and principal is payable in
January 2004.




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

14. OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued)

      In July 1999, priceline.com made a $6.0 million loan to an executive of
the Company, pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement dated June 14,
1999. The loan bears interest annually at 5.82% per annum. Subject to certain
prepayment obligations and to forgiveness in the event of certain changes of
control, death, or termination without cause, pursuant to the terms of this
loan, accrued interest and principal are payable after five years, but are
forgiven under certain circumstances if the executive remains employed by the
Company at that time. Upon any forgiveness of the loan, the Company would
recognize as compensation expense an amount up to the amount of principal and
interest forgiven.

15. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

      In March 2000, the Company entered into an agreement with Alliance Capital
Partners, pursuant to which Alliance has formed an operating subsidiary,
pricelinemortgage, for the primary purpose of acting as a broker and/or lender
of residential mortgage loans in connection with the priceline.com mortgage
service. Priceline.com has agreed to provide $3.62 million of financing to an
affiliate of Alliance in the form of a convertible secured note and has agreed
to license the "priceline" name and business model for use by pricelinemortgage.
Alliance has agreed to provide management services to pricelinemortgage,
including the procurement of personnel and office space and assistance in
obtaining regulatory approvals.

      In February 2000, the Company announced the resignation of Paul Francis,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the hiring of Heidi
Miller as Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Strategy,
Planning and Administration.

      In the first quarter 2000, priceline.com made loans to two executives
aggregating $5.0 million, which bear interest at 6.56%. Subject to certain
prepayment obligations and to forgiveness in the event of certain changes of
control, death, or termination without cause, pursuant to the terms of these
loans, accrued interest and principal are payable after five years, but are
forgiven under certain circumstances if the executive remains employed by the
Company at that time. Upon any forgiveness of the loans, the Company would
recognize as compensation expense an amount up to the amount of principal and
interest forgiven.




                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

16.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

      The follow table sets forth certain key interim financial information for
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.






                                    INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit Number                          Description
- --------------                          -----------
2.1*              Agreement of Merger, dated as of July 31, 1998, between
                  priceline.com LLC and the Registrant.
3.1*              Form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
                  the Registrant.
3.2*              Form of By-Laws of the Registrant.
4.1               Reference is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.
4.2*              Specimen Certificate for Registrant's Common Stock.
4.3*              Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as
                  of December 8, 1998, among the Registrant and certain
                  stockholders of the Registrant.
10.1.1*           1997 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.
10.1.2*           1999 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant.
10.2*             Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July 31, 1998, among the
                  Registrant and the investors named therein, as amended.
10.3*             Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 8, 1998, among
                  the Registrant and the investors named therein, as amended.
10.4              Reference is hereby made to Exhibit 4.3.
10.5*             Purchase and Intercompany Services Agreement, dated April 6,
                  1998, among the Registrant, Walker Asset Management Limited
                  Partnership, Walker Digital Corporation and Priceline Travel,
                  Inc.
10.6.1*           Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1998, between Jay
                  S. Walker, Walker Digital Corporation, the Registrant and
                  Jesse M. Fink.
10.6.2*           Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated November 16,
                  1998 between the Registrant and Jesse M. Fink.
10.7.1*           Employment Agreement, dated as of July 23, 1998, between the
                  Registrant and Timothy G. Brier.
10.7.2*           Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated November 16,
                  1998, between the Registrant and Timothy G. Brier.
10.8*             Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of August
                  15, 1998, by and between the Registrant and Richard S.
                  Braddock.
10.9*             Airline Participation Agreement, dated April 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Trans World
                  Airlines, Inc.
10.10*+           Airline Participation Agreement, dated October 2, 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Northwest
                  Airlines, Inc.
10.11.1*+         General Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and among the
                  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.2*+         Airline Participation Agreement, dated August 31, 1998, by and
                  among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air
                  Lines, Inc.
10.11.3*+         Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and the
                  General Agreement, dated December 31, 1998, between and among
                  the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines,
                  Inc.
10.11.4***        Letter Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between the Registrant
                  and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.5           Master Agreement, dated November 17, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.6           Amendment to the Airline Participation Agreement and the
                  General Agreement, dated November 17, 1999, by and among the
                  Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.11.7+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, between the Registrant and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
10.12*+           Airline Participation Agreement, dated December 31, 1998, by
                  and among the Registrant, Priceline Travel, Inc. and America
                  West Airlines.
10.13*+           Internet Marketing and Licensing Agreement, as of August 1,
                  1998, between the Registrant and LendingTree, Inc.
10.14*            Systems Access Agreement, dated as of August 4, 1997, between
                  the Registrant and WORLDPAN, L.P.



Exhibit Number                          Description
- --------------                          -----------
10.15*            Master Agreement for Outsourcing Call Center Support, dated as
                  of April 6, 1998, between the Registrant and CALLTECH
                  Communications, Incorporated.
10.16*            Form of Participation Warrant Agreement.
10.17.1*+         Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 31,
                  1998.
10.17.2*+         Amendment No. 1, dated as of February 4, 1999, to Warrant
                  Participation Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1999.
10.17.3*+         Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 3, 1999, to Participation
                  Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, as
                  previously amended to Amendment No. 1 to Warrant Participation
                  Agreement, dated as of February 4, 1999.
10.18***          Employment Agreement, dated as of June 14, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Daniel H. Schulman.
10.19.1***        Airline Participation Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between
                  the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.2***        Participation Warrant Agreement, dated July 16, 1999, between
                  the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.3           First Amendment to Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as
                  of November 17, 1999, by and between the Registrant and
                  Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.19.4+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated November 17, 1999,
                  between the Registrant and Continental Airlines, Inc.
10.20****         License Agreement, dated July 20, 1999 between Walker Digital
                  Corporation and the Registrant.
10.21             Sublease, dated October 1999, between Oxford Health Plans,
                  Inc., as Sub-Landlord and the Registrant, as Sub-Tenant, and
                  Agreement of Lease, dated June 16, 1993, as amended, between
                  Prudential Insurance Company of America, as Landlord, and
                  Oxford Health Plans, Inc., as Tenant.
10.22.1           Securityholders' Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999,
                  among the Registrant, Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc., Walker
                  Digital, LLC and the Investors signatory thereto.
10.22.2+          Intellectual Property License Agreement, dated as of October
                  26, 1999, between the Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club,
                  Inc.
10.22.3+          Marketing and Technical Services Agreement, dated as of
                  October 26, 1999, between the Registrant and Priceline
                  WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.22.4+          Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.22.5+          Services Agreement, dated as of October 26, 1999, between the
                  Registrant and Priceline WebHouse Club, Inc.
10.23.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 15,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and United Air Lines, Inc.
10.23.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 15,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and United Air Lines, Inc.
10.24.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and US Airways, Inc.
10.24.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and US Airways, Inc.
10.25.1+          Airline Participation Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and American Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.25.2+          Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and American Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.26+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and Trans World Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.27+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and Northwest Airlines,
                  Inc.
10.28+            Participation Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 17,
                  1999, by and between the Registrant and America West Airlines
10.29             Continuing Employment Agreement, dated as of December 16,
                  1999, between the Registrant and Melissa M. Taub.
12.1              Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
23.1              Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
27.1              Financial Data Schedule.



*     Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-1 (Registration No.
      333-69657) filed in connection with priceline.com's initial public
      offering and incorporated herein by reference.

**    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q filed on May 17, 1999 and
      incorporated herein by reference.

***   Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form S-1 (Registration No.
      333-83513) filed in connection with priceline.com's secondary public
      offering and incorporated herein by reference.

****  Previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-Q filed on November 15, 1999

+     Certain portions of this document have been omitted pursuant to a
      confidential treatment request.



