
10-K405
DOMINION RESOURCES, INC. 10-K405



                                                                   Draft 3/18/97
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   Form 10-K
                            ------------------------

            (Mark One)
                  ( X )      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                             THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
 
                                       or

                  (   )      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         For the transition period from
                               --------------- to
                                ---------------

                         Commission file number 1-8489
                    ----------------------------------------

                            Dominion Resources, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                VIRGINIA                                 54-1229715
     (State or other jurisdiction of         (IRS employer identification no.)
     incorporation or organization)

          901 East Byrd Street
           Richmond, Virginia                            23219-4072
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

                                 (804) 775-5700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered
  ---------------------------    ------------------------------------------
  Common Stock, no par value     New York Stock Exchange


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     None:
                                (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was $7,382,370,433 at February 28, 1997, based on the closing price
of the Common Stock on such date, as reported on the composite tape by The Wall
Street Journal.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                  Class               Outstanding at February 28, 1997
       Common Stock, no par value                183,412,930

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

(a) Portions of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV
    hereof.

(b) Portions of the 1997 Proxy Statement, dated March 7, 1997, are incorporated
    by reference in Part III hereof.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

 Item                                                                   Page
Number                                                                 Number
- -------                                                                ------
                                     PART I
 1. Business
      The Company......................................................   1
      Regulation.......................................................   3
      Capital Requirements and Financing Program.......................   9
      Rates............................................................   9
      Virginia Power Sources of Power..................................  11
      Virginia Power Sources of Energy Used and Fuel Costs.............  12
      Interconnections.................................................  13
      Future Sources of Power..........................................  14
      Competition and Strategic Initiatives............................  15
      Conservation and Load Management.................................  16
 2. Properties.........................................................  16
 3. Legal Proceedings..................................................  16
 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................  16
    Executive Officers of the Registrant...............................  17

                               PART II

 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
      and Related Stockholder Matters..................................  18
 6. Selected Financial Data............................................  18
 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations........................................  18
      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Cash Flows
        and Financial Condition........................................  29
 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................  33
 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
      and Financial Disclosure.........................................  37

                               PART III

10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.................  37
11. Executive Compensation.............................................  37
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.....  37
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.....................  37

                               PART IV

14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K...  38


                                     PART I

                                ITEM 1. BUSINESS
                                  THE COMPANY

     Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion Resources), organized in 1983, has its
principal office at 901 East Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219-4072,
telephone (804) 775-5700. The principal assets of Dominion Resources are its
investments in its subsidiaries.

     At December 31, 1996, Dominion Resources owned all of the outstanding
common stock of its subsidiaries: Dominion Capital, Inc. (Dominion Capital);
Dominion Energy, Inc. (Dominion Energy) and Virginia Electric and Power Company
(Virginia Power), its largest subsidiary. Dominion Resources is currently exempt
from registration as a holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935 (the 1935 Act).

     On November 13, 1996, Dominion Resources announced its intention to make a
cash offer to purchase, through a newly created United Kingdom subsidiary, DR
Investments (UK) PLC (DR Investments (UK)), all of the outstanding shares of
East Midlands Electricity plc (East Midlands), a United Kingdom regional
electricity company, for a total purchase price of approximately $2.2 billion.
As of January 10, 1997, 140,298,528 shares of East Midlands, or approximately
70.7% of the shares outstanding, had been tendered and the offer was declared
unconditional, thereby committing DR Investments (UK) to purchase all East
Midlands shares validly tendered pursuant to the offer. Earlier DR Investments
(UK) had purchased 29,700,000 shares, or approximately 15% of East Midlands
outstanding shares. As of March 14, 1997, all the outstanding shares of East
Midlands have been acquired. The interim financing for the offer is in the form
of a short-term credit agreement and a revolving credit agreement, each with
Union Bank of Switzerland, New York Branch, as Administrative Agent and
NationsBank, N.A. as Syndication Agent, and is guaranteed by Dominion Resources.
In addition, DR Investments (UK) has issued Loan Notes in lieu of cash to
certain shareholders of East Midlands with Dominion Resources providing the
remainder of the consideration as equity. Dominion Resources expects the
permanent financing will be a combination of non-recourse debt, issued at a
subsidiary level, as well as equity provided by Dominion Resources. East
Midlands owns and operates the electricity distribution network in the East
Midlands region of England and provides power to approximately 2.3 million
businesses and homes. The company buys electricity from the U.K. competitive
pool and supplies it to all smaller business and domestic customers in its
franchise area and to larger business customers anywhere in the country on a
negotiated contract basis. East Midlands also operates small electricity
generation and gas supply businesses and an electrical contracting business.

     Dominion Capital, established as a subsidiary of Dominion Resources in
1985, is a diversified investment and financial services company. The principal
assets of Dominion Capital are its joint venture with Household Commercial
Financial Services, Inc., First Source Financial, LLP, a middle market
commercial lender; Saxon Mortgage, Inc. and its affiliates, subsidiaries engaged
in the origination, servicing and securitization of residential mortgages;
Cambrian Capital, a merchant banking enterprise for emerging independent oil and
natural gas producers; a 50% limited partnership interest in a Louisiana
hydroelectric project; Dominion Lands, Inc., a subsidiary involved in planned
community real estate development and management; investments in marketable
securities and fixed income instruments; OptaCor Financial Services Company, a
consumer lender; and Rincon Securities, Inc., a subsidiary which holds a
diversified portfolio of preferred stocks. Dominion Capital also has investments
in affordable housing and a commercial real estate management company. On March
21, 1997, Dominion Capital completed the purchase of Household Commercial
Financial Services Inc. interest in First Source Financial, LLP.

     Dominion Energy, established as a subsidiary of Dominion Resources in 1987,
is active in the nonutility electric power generation businesses outside the
territory served by Virginia Power and the development, exploration and
operation of oil and natural gas reserves. Dominion Energy is involved in power
projects in six states, Argentina, Bolivia, Belize and Peru, which total
approximately 2,561 Mw. Domestic power projects in operation throughout 1996 in
which Dominion Energy has an interest include three gas-fueled projects in
Texas, two geothermal projects, two gas-fueled projects and one solar project in
California, four small hydroelectric projects in New York, a waste coal-fueled
project in West Virginia and a waste wood-and coal- fueled project in Maine.
International power projects in operation throughout 1996 in which Dominion
Energy has an interest include one hydroelectric and one gas-fired project in
Argentina, two hydroelectric projects in Bolivia, a run-of-river hydroelectric
project in Belize and two hydroelectric projects and six diesel oil-fueled
projects in Peru. Dominion Energy is involved in oil and natural gas development
and exploration in the Appalachian Basin, the Michigan Basin, the Illinois
Basin, the Black Warrior Basin, the Uinta Basin, the Powder River Basin, the
Gulf Coast and the Mid-Continent, and owns oil and natural gas reserves in such
areas totaling approximately 460 billion cubic feet (BCFE). In 1996, Dominion



Energy added approximately 105 BCFE of natural gas reserves. Production from
Dominion Energy's natural gas reserve holdings in 1996 totaled approximately 52
BCFE.

     On March 29, 1996, a subsidiary of Dominion Energy, Kincaid Generation,
L.L.C. (LLC) entered into an asset sale agreement with Commonwealth Edison
Company (ComEd) to purchase ComEd's 1,108 Mw coal-fired Kincaid Power Station in
Central Illinois and entered into a power purchase agreement with ComEd to sell,
upon closing under the asset sale agreement, capacity and energy back to ComEd
for a period of 15 years. The closing under the asset sale agreement and
effectiveness of the power purchase agreement are subject to various regulatory
approvals and other conditions, including certain approvals from the Illinois
Commerce Commission (ICC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
ComEd filed a petition for ICC approval and on November 27, 1996, a Hearing
Examiners' Proposed Order was issued recommending to the ICC that the
transaction be approved. Exceptions to that Report have been filed and are
pending before the ICC. The ICC may issue a final order by early spring. On July
26, 1996, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local
Union 15 (IBEW) filed a complaint in Illinios state court requesting injunctive
relief to prevent the transaction. IBEW has claimed that the asset sale
agreement is in violation of an Illiniois statute concerning collective
bargaining agreements because the asset sale agreement does not state that LLC
will be subject to the current collective bargaining agreement between ComEd and
IBEW. The case was removed to the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois. In February 1997, the Court issued an order granting LLC
and ComEd's motions for summary judgement and invalidating the Illinois statute.
The IBEW has appealed to the Seventh Circuit. The IBEW has also filed an unfair
labor practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board alleging failure
to bargain in good faith. Regulatory approval of various aspects of the
transaction have been requested and received from FERC. An additional filing
with FERC will be made after ICC approval is obtained. The present closing date
deadline under the asset sale agreement is June 30, 1997.

     In August 1996, Dominion Energy, through wholly-owned subsidiaries,
acquired a 60% ownership and management interest in Empresa de Generacion
Electrica NorPeru S.A. (EGENOR). EGENOR is a generation company providing power
to Peru's northern region. The government-owned ElectroPeru S.A. and the
employees of EGENOR collectively retain a 40% interest in EGENOR. Dominion
Energy continues to assess sale opportunities for a portion of its interest in
EGENOR to a third party.

     For additional information on the nonutility businesses, see Nonutility
Issues under FUTURE ISSUES in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
OPERATIONS.

     Virginia Electric and Power Company is a regulated public utility engaged
in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy within
a 30,000 square mile area in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina. It
transacts business under the name Virginia Power in Virginia and under the name
North Carolina Power in North Carolina. It sells electricity to retail customers
(including governmental agencies) and to wholesale customers such as rural
electric cooperatives and municipalities. The Virginia service area comprises
about 65 percent of Virginia's total land area, but accounts for over 80 percent
of its population. As used herein, the term "Virginia Power" refers to the
entirety of Virginia Electric and Power Company, including, without limitation,
its Virginia and North Carolina operations, and all of its subsidiaries.

     The electric utility industry in the United States is witnessing an
evolutionary trend toward less regulation and more competition. This is
evidenced by legislative and regulatory action at both the federal and state
level. To the extent that competition is either authorized or mandated and
regulation is eliminated or relaxed, electric utilities will no longer, in the
absence of appropriate legislative or regulatory action during the transition
period, be guaranteed an opportunity to recover their prudently-incurred costs
including their cost of capital, and utilities with costs that exceed the market
prices established by the competitive market will run the risk of suffering
losses, which may be substantial.

     Virginia Power has responded to this evolution by undertaking cost-cutting
measures, engaging in re-engineering efforts of its core business processes, and
pursuing a strategic planning initiative (called Vision 2000) to encourage
innovative approaches to servicing traditional markets and to develop
appropriate methods by which to service future markets.

     A significant part of Virginia Power's strategy relies on developing
"non-traditional" business opportunities designed to provide growth in earnings
by leveraging existing core competencies. Virginia Power has established
separate business units for its nuclear operations, fossil and hydroelectric
operations, commercial operations, and its energy services business in an effort
to pursue these opportunities to grow by offering multiple markets a broad
portfolio of energy-related products and services.

     In addition, Virginia Power is actively pursuing opportunities to expand
its market reach through strategic alliances with partners whose strengths,
market position and strategies complement Virginia Power's and where
efficiencies can be gained through the alliance.



     For additional information on the changing utility industry and Virginia
Power's strategy see COMPETITION AND STRATEGIC INITIATIVES below and Competition
under FUTURE ISSUES in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     Virginia Power has franchises or permits for electric operations in
substantially all cities and towns now served. It also has certificates of
convenience and necessity from the State Corporation Commission of Virginia (the
Virginia Commission) for service in all territory served at retail in Virginia.
The North Carolina Utilities Commission (the North Carolina Commission) has
assigned territory to Virginia Power for substantially all of its retail service
outside certain municipalities in North Carolina.

     Virginia Power strives to operate its generating facilities in accordance
with prudent utility industry practices and in conformity with applicable
statutes, rules and regulations. Like other electric utilities, Virginia Power's
generating facilities are subject to unanticipated or extended outages for
repairs, replacements or modifications of equipment or otherwise to comply with
regulatory requirements. Such outages may involve significant expenditures not
previously budgeted, including replacement energy costs.

     The matters discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K contains
"forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, including (without limitation) discussions as to
expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives and future financial performance, or
assumptions underlying or concerning matters discussed in this document. These
discussions, and any other discussions contained in this report that are not
historical facts, are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates,
projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause
actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the
forward-looking statements. In addition to certain contingency matters (and
their respective cautionary statements) discussed elsewhere in this report, the
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION section contained in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS indicates some important factors that could cause actual
results or outcomes to differ materially from those addressed in the
forward-looking discussions.

     Dominion Resources and its subsidiaries had 11,174 full-time employees as
of December 31, 1996.

                                   REGULATION

General

     In a wide variety of matters in addition to rates, Virginia Power is
presently subject to regulation by the Virginia Commission and the North
Carolina Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of
Energy (DOE), Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), FERC, the Army Corps of
Engineers, and other federal, state and local authorities. Compliance with
numerous laws and regulations increases Virginia Power's operating and capital
costs by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of
existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction
and operation of new facilities. The commissions regulating Virginia Power's
rates have historically permitted recovery of such costs.

     Virginia Power may not construct, or incur financial commitments for
construction of, any substantial generating facilities or large capacity
transmission lines without the prior approval of state and federal governmental
agencies having jurisdiction over various aspects of its business. Such
approvals relate to, among other things, the environmental impact of such
activities, the relationship of such activities to the need for providing
adequate utility service and the design and operation of proposed facilities.

     Various provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the Energy Act) that
could affect Virginia Power include those provisions encouraging the development
of non-utility generation, giving FERC authority to order transmission access
for wholesale transactions, requiring higher energy efficiency and alternative
fuels use, restructuring of nuclear plant licensing procedures and requiring
state regulatory authorities to give full rate treatment for the effects of
conservation and demand management programs, including the effects of reduced
sales. While the full impact of the Energy Act on Virginia Power cannot at this
time be quantified, it is likely, over time, to be significant.

     The Virginia General Assembly, during the 1996 session, adopted Senate
Joint Resolution No. 118, which created a joint legislative subcommittee to
study competition and restructuring in the electric utility industry. The
subcommittee conducted public hearings and met at various times throughout the
year. The 1997 Virginia General Assembly adopted Senate Joint Resolution No.
259, which would continue the existence of the joint subcommittee for an
additional year and request that the



Staff of the Virginia Commission provide by November 7, 1997, a draft of a
working model for the future structure of the electric utility industry in
Virginia, statutory or regulatory changes appropriate for the model, and an
appropriate timetable and transition for implementation of the model. The
Virginia Commission has commenced its work in response to this request.

     In connection with the offer for East Midlands and in order to obtain
certifications from the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission
necessary for the maintenance of Dominion Resources' exemption from the 1935
Act, as amended, notwithstanding the acquisition of East Midlands, Dominion
Resources and Virginia Power proffered on October 31, 1996 an Undertaking and
Covenant to such regulatory agencies for the benefit of, and enforceable by,
such agencies. The Undertaking and Covenant provides, among other things, that
Virginia Power will have no role in the financing of the acquisition of East
Midlands, whether as primary obligor or guarantor, nor will Virginia Power or
Dominion Resources agree in any way to obligate Virginia Power to commit funds
to maintain the financial viability of East Midlands or to become liable for any
debts of East Midlands. Further, Dominion Resources agreed that following the
East Midlands acquisition, it would reduce and maintain its Aggregate Investment
to no more than 35% of its consolidated net worth within 180 days of the East
Midlands acquisition. For purposes of the Undertaking and Covenant, "Aggregate
Investment" means all amounts invested in exempt wholesale generators located
outside the United States and in foreign utilities, in the form of equity, or
debt which is recourse, directly and indirectly, to Dominion Resources, and
consolidated net worth means all common equity of Dominion Resources.

     The Undertaking and Covenant imposes various reporting obligations on
Dominion Resources and Virgina Power designed to assure compliance with the
Undertaking and Covenant and creates remedies for its violation, including,
without limitation, authorization for the agencies to order partial divestiture
by Dominion Resources of any Aggregate Investment which is in excess of the 35%
limitation.

Virginia

     On September 18, 1995, the Virginia Commission established a proceeding to
review and consider its policy regarding restructuring of, and competition in,
the electric utility industry. The Commission Staff issued its Report on July
31, 1996. The Report contained 14 recommendations, including continued
monitoring of wholesale and retail competition in the industry, increased
monitoring of service quality, preservation of state jurisdiction over retail
service, improved price signals, further study of stranded cost recovery, and
increased efforts to renegotiate non-utility generation contracts. On September
23, 1996, Virginia Power filed its comments on the Staff Report and a request
for oral argument. The comments generally supported most of the Staff's specific
recommendations as well as its overall recommendation that Virginia should
pursue a cautious and measured approach to the adoption of competitive
initiatives, but Virginia Power stated that it would continue to pursue its
Vision 2000 restructuring (see Note O to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by
reference). The comments stated that the question of recovery of potential
stranded costs should be addressed now. On November 8, 1996, Virginia Power gave
the Virginia Commission notice that it intended to institute a proceeding under
a recently enacted statute that allows the Virginia Commission to consider
alternative forms of regulation. On November 12, 1996, the Commission directed
its staff and electric utilities in Virginia to provide additional information
relevant to potential changes in and possible emergence of competition in the
electric industry. It directed utilities that have contracts for non-utility
generation that impacts their Virginia jurisdictional rates to file, by June 1,
1997, a report detailing efforts to restructure contracts with non-utility
generators (NUGs) to mitigate the potentially negative effect on current and
future rates, and subsequently to file quarterly reports detailing continuing
efforts in this area. The Commission has established separate working groups to
consider the issues of reliability, costs and benefits of competition, stranded
costs and benefits, models for industry restructuring, and environmental
matters. Each working group includes a Staff member and representatives of
consumer groups, industrial customers, non-utility generators, utilities and
cooperatives.

     On November 12, 1996, the Commission also instituted a new proceeding and
directed Virginia Power to provide other information by March 31, 1997.
Information required to be filed includes detailed cost-of-service studies,
suggested adjustments for eliminating cross subsidies among customer classes,
methods for improving price signals to customers, illustrative tariffs that
unbundle rates, analysis of reserve margin requirements, analysis of whether
incremental capacity needs could be met by a competitive market, evaluation of
the capacity solicitation process, evaluation of conservation and load
management programs and other information. The Commission also directed that any
proposed alternative form of regulation be filed in the newly instituted
proceeding, and required that a 1996 calendar year be used as the test period,
with an anticipated rate year beginning 150 days after the date of filing. On
March 7, 1997, in this proceeding and in a separate Annual Information




Filing proceeding, the Commission entered an order providing that Virginia
Power's rates shall become interim rates subject to refund as of March 1, 1997.

     On March 24, 1997, Virginia Power filed a proposed alternative regulatory
plan with the Virginia Commission, in which it proposes a freeze of present
rates through December 31, 2002, during which a portion of earnings above the
approved level would be used to accelerate the write-off of generation-related
regulatory assets and mitigate the costs associated with payments under power
purchase contracts with NUGs. Virginia Power also seeks approval of the
principle of stranded cost recovery as well as approval of a Transition Cost
Charge mechanism by which costs that may become stranded at the onset of
competition will be recoverable from customers who elect to purchase their power
in the competitive market if retail competition is allowed in Virginia. The
Commission has not established a procedural schedule in this case, and the
extent to which it will grant Virginia Power's request cannot be predicted. For
a more detailed discussion of competition and the recovery of stranded costs,
see Competition under FUTURE ISSUES in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     On December 18, 1995, Virginia Power applied to the Virginia Commission for
approval of arrangements with Chesapeake Paper Products Company (CPPC), under
which Virginia Power would facilitate the design, construction and financing of
a cogeneration plant to meet CPPC's energy requirements for its industrial
processes at its plant in West Point, Virginia. A hearing has been held, and
briefs have been filed. Several parties opposed the arrangements by which
Virginia Power would provide gas sales, fuel management and fuel procurement
services to the plant as being anticompetitive and beyond the Virginia Power's
corporate and regulatory authority. Briefs were filed on January 6, 1997. After
consideration of briefs, a hearing examiner's report will be issued.

     On May 29, 1996, Virginia Power filed an Application with the Virginia
Commission seeking authority to implement a monitoring program that requires
certain non-utility generators to provide certain information sufficient to
determine continued compliance with the "Qualifying Facility" (QF) requirements
of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA). On October 10,
1996, the Commission Staff filed its brief concluding that the Commission had
legal authority to require QFs to provide it with operating data and to adopt a
monitoring program. On December 18, 1996, the Staff filed a report generally
supporting the Application. On December 30, 1996, Virginia Power filed its
response requesting that the Commission adopt the Staff conclusions.

     On June 7, 1996, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
Commission to purchase a gas-fired combined cycle generator from Richmond Power
Enterprise, L.P. (RPE) and to enter into a purchased power contract with RPE and
Enron Power Marketing, Inc. (EPMI) without competitive bidding. Under this
proposal, Virginia Power will purchase the generator, at a price of
approximately $20 million, and the power purchase and operating agreement (PPOA)
will be amended to reduce capacity payments, shorten the term of the agreement
and provide for sales of capacity and energy by RPE's assignee, EPMI, to
Virginia Power from sources outside Virginia Power's service territory rather
than from the generator. Virginia Power estimates this arrangement will result
in a savings of $63 million over the life of the existing PPOA. The Staff
supported the application, and the Commission granted approval on November 18,
1996. On January 15, 1997, FERC issued the necessary approvals. The purchase was
concluded on February 25, 1997.

     On October 8, 1996, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission an
application for authority to provide interexchange non-switched dedicated
telecommunication services throughout Virginia. If the application is granted,
Virginia Power will be authorized to provide a range of telecommunications
services, including private line and special access services and high capacity
telecommunications services. The application is opposed by the City of Richmond
and several telecommunications providers have intervened neither supporting nor
opposing the application. Virginia Power filed its brief on March 7, 1997
supporting its authority to offer the telecommunications services and responding
to the positions taken by the other parties.

     On November 8, 1996, the Virginia Commission approved arrangements for
services and transfers of assets between Virginia Power and A&C Enercom, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Virginia Power that provides energy services to
utility customers.

     On February 7, 1997, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
Commission requesting approval of arrangements between it and a wholly-owned
subsidiary, Virginia Power Services, Inc., (VPS), by which Virginia Power would
provide to VPS services that would enable Virginia Power Nuclear Services
Company (VPN), a VPS subsidiary, to furnish nuclear management and operation
services to electric utilities seeking assistance in the management and
operation of their nuclear generating facilities. The arrangements contemplate
the possibility of the creation of additional subsidiaries of VPS that would
provide other unregulated services, such as energy services, to third parties
seeking such services. VPN has




executed a Letter of Intent with Northeast Nuclear Energy Company to provide
management services for Northeast Utilities' Millstone Unit 2 nuclear plant.

North Carolina

     On May 15, 1996, the North Carolina Commission issued an order initiating
an investigation of emerging issues in the restructuring of the electric
industry. As ordered, Virginia Power filed comments on July 16, 1996, addressing
the implications of FERC Order No. 888, Promoting Wholesale Competition Through
Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities.

FERC

     On April 24, 1996, FERC issued final rules on open access transmission
service, stranded costs, standards of conduct and open access same-time
information systems (OASIS). On July 9, 1996, Virginia Power filed an open
access transmission service tariff in compliance with FERC's Order No. 888.
Also, in compliance with FERC's directive, Virginia Power's OASIS became
operational and company-filed standards of conduct requiring separation of
transmission operations/reliability functions from wholesale merchant/marketing
functions became effective on January 3, 1997. Virginia Power also made filings
to comply with FERC's directive that, effective January 1, 1997, utilities no
longer make bundled sales of transmission and generation services in economy
energy transactions. In certain of those filings, Virginia Power canceled or
committed not to use the economy energy rate schedules contained in
interconnection agreements that Virginia Power has with neighboring utilities.
With regard to its Wholesale Power Sales Tariff, Virginia Power filed amendments
to that tariff to unbundle the bundled economy rates contained therein. On March
4, 1997, FERC issued Order No. 888-A, in which it addressed requests for
rehearing of Order No. 888. Order No. 888-A essentially reaffirms the basic
principles of Order No. 888 and clarifies and makes limited modifications to
Order No. 888. Parties seeking judicial review of Order Nos. 888 and 888-A must
file petition for review with the appropriate United States Court of Appeal by
May 5, 1997. For a discussion of the status of Virginia Power's Open Access
Transmission Tariff filing, see ITEM 1, RATES, FERC below.

     FERC also issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NOPR) proposing
replacement of open access tariffs with a capacity reservation tariff by
December 31, 1997.

     For additional discussion of Open Access issues see COMPETITION AND
STRATEGIC INITIATIVES below and Competition under FUTURE ISSUES in MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     On July 31, 1996, FERC denied in part and granted in part, LG&E
Westmoreland Southampton's (Southampton) request for a waiver of the
Commission's operating requirements for QFs under PURPA. Southampton owns and
operates a 62.6 Mw cogeneration facility located in Franklin, Virginia and sells
the output of the facility to Virginia Power. FERC's decision preserved
Southampton's QF status under the Public Utility Holding Company Act, but
refused to waive Southampton's violation of the QF operating standards. The
Order provided that Southampton refund to Virginia Power the difference between
the amount that Virginia Power paid to Southampton in 1992 under its QF contract
and a Commission-approved rate equal to Virginia Power's incremental cost of
economy energy during 1992. On August 23, 1996, Southampton filed a Motion for
Clarification, and on August 30, 1996, it filed a Request for Rehearing.
Virginia Power filed responses to each Southampton pleading. On September 30,
1996, FERC issued an order granting rehearing for the purpose of further
consideration. On October 15, 1996, Virginia Power filed the data requested by
the FERC order showing Virginia Power's incremental cost of economy energy
during each hour of 1992. On October 30, 1996, Southampton filed a response to
Virginia Power's data filing. Southampton also filed a Petition for Review on
September 23, 1996, against FERC in the United States Court of Appeals for the
D.C. Circuit. Virginia Power filed a Motion to Intervene, which the Court
granted on November 25, 1996. On November 27, 1996, Southampton initiated a
separate rate proceeding at FERC seeking approval of the contract rates paid to
it by Virginia Power in 1992 only. On December 26, 1996, Virginia Power filed a
Motion to Intervene, Motion to Reject and Terminate Proceeding, and Protest. On
January 10, 1997, Southampton filed its answer.

Environmental

     From time to time, Virginia Power may be identified as a potentially
responsible party (PRP) with respect to a Superfund site. EPA (or a state) can
either (a) allow such a party to conduct and pay for a remedial investigation,
feasibility study and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial investigation
and action and then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each party can be held
jointly, severally and strictly liable for all costs, but the parties can then
bring contribution actions against each other and seek reimbursement from their
insurance companies. As a result of the Superfund Act or other laws or




regulations regarding the remediation of waste, Virginia Power may be required
to expend amounts on remedial investigations and actions. Although Virginia
Power is not currently aware of any sites or events, including those sites
currently identified, likely to result in significant liabilities, such amounts,
in the future, could be significant.

     Permits under the Clean Water Act and state laws have been issued for all
of Virginia Power's steam generating stations now in operation. Such permits are
subject to reissuance and continuing review.

     The Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, requires Virginia Power to reduce
its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) and nitrogen oxides (NO(x)). Beginning
in 1995, the SO(2) reduction program is based on the issuance of a limited
number of SO(2) emission allowances, each of which may be used as a permit to
emit one ton of SO(2) into the atmosphere or may be sold to someone else. The
program is administered by the EPA.

     Virginia Power installed SO(2) control equipment on Unit 3 at Mt. Storm
Power Station during 1994. Additional plans for SO(2) control involve switching
to lower sulfur coal, purchase of emission allowances and additional SO(2)
controls. Maximum flexibility and least-cost compliance will be maintained
through annual studies. Virginia Power has completed its compliance plan for
NO(x) control, with the exception of some additional studies concerning Phase
II, for which EPA issued final regulations in December 1996, and ozone control
requirements, for which final regulations have not yet been promulgated.

     In 1996 Virginia Power installed NO(x) controls on Possum Point Unit 4 and
at Mt. Storm Unit 3 at a total approximate cost of $10 million. Virginia Power
plans to install additional NO(x) controls and modify existing controls at Mt.
Storm Units 1 and (2) in 1997, and to seek alternative emission limitations from
EPA for all three Mt. Storm Units. Virginia Power has notified EPA of its
decision (called "early election") to begin complying with Phase I NO(x) limits
at ten of its units in Virginia in 1997, three years earlier than otherwise
required. As a result, and provided that Phase I compliance limits are met, the
units will not be subject to more stringent Phase II limits until 2008.

     In order to assist the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality in
maintaining good air quality in the Richmond and Hampton Roads regions, and to
avoid the necessity of more stringent regulations,Virginia Power made voluntary
commitments in 1996 to cap NO(x) emissions at its Chesterfield and Yorktown
Power Stations and the Chesapeake Energy Center beginning in 2000.

     Capital expenditures on Clean Air Act compliance over the next five years
are projected to be approximately $21 million. Changes in the regulatory
environment, availability of allowances, and emissions control technology could
substantially impact the timing and magnitude of compliance expenditures.

     The Clean Air Act amendments also require Virginia Power to obtain
operating permits for all major generating facilities. Permit applications have
been submitted, and deemed complete by the regulatory authorities, for the Mt.
Storm and North Branch power stations. Applications for the Virginia stations
are expected to be filed within the next two years.

     Virginia Power continues to work with the West Virginia Office of Air
Quality concerning opacity requirements applicable to the Mt. Storm Power
Station.

     In regard to ambient air quality standards, the EPA recently announced
proposals to add a fine particulate matter standard and to revise the ozone
standard, which could potentially result in significant expenditures to install
controls to reduce sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions.

     In 1993 the United Nations' Framework Convention on Climate Change, also
called The Global Warming Treaty, which was signed by more than 150 countries,
including the United States, became effective. The objective of the treaty is
the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations at a level that would prevent
manmade emissions from interfering with the climate system.

     Although there is considerable scientific disagreement concerning the
effects of greenhouse gas emissions on global climate, the United States and
many other nations are supporting an international treaty, to be finalized in
December 1997, containing legally binding emissions targets to be achieved
between 2010 and 2020. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions necessary to
achieve these targets is likely to have a substantial financial impact on
companies that consume or produce fossil fuel derived electric power, including
Virginia Power.

     For additional information on Environmental Matters, see Note Q to the
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders and ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS below.




Nuclear

     All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Virginia Power's nuclear
power stations are regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC
are subject to revocation, suspension or modification, and operation of a
nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest,
health or safety so requires.

     From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and
maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require
changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear facilities.
If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result in
substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining Virginia Power's
nuclear generating units.
 
     On July 18, 1995, the Virginia Commission instituted an investigation
regarding spent nuclear fuel disposal. It directed interested parties to provide
comments on legal and public policy issues related to spent nuclear fuel storage
and disposal, including, but not limited to, whether to allow utilities to
recover from ratepayers some or all money paid to the Nuclear Waste Fund
established by the Nuclear Policy Act of 1982, whether to establish an escrow
account for spent nuclear fuel storage and/or disposal, and whether utilities
should develop their own plans for storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
The Commission's Order Establishing Investigation recites that Virginia Power
has paid $343.6 million to the Nuclear Waste Fund through 1994, including $44.8
million in 1994, and that future payments could exceed $400 million assuming its
North Anna and Surry reactors continue to operate through the end of their
existing operating licenses. Virginia Power and others filed comments on October
31, 1995. On February 27, 1996, the Commission Staff filed its Report
recommending that adoption of a definitive policy on the spent nuclear fuel
disposal fee be delayed until (1) a ruling is forthcoming on pending litigation
which seeks to impose an obligation on the federal government to begin
acceptance of spent nuclear fuel no later than January 31, 1998, (2) the outcome
of proposed legislation which would amend the Nuclear Waste Policy Act to
require the development of a centralized interim storage facility has been
determined, and (3) a vision of the likely outcome of the electric utility
industry's restructuring efforts has been more fully conceptualized. The
Virginia Commission entered an order on October 7, 1996 in its proceeding
regarding spent nuclear fuel disposal in which it directed that the proceeding
be consolidated with Virginia Power's pending fuel cost recovery proceeding. On
March 7, 1997, the Commission Staff filed a motion requesting that the
Commission remove the spent nuclear fuel disposal issue from Virginia Power's
pending fuel factor proceeding and return it to a separate proceeding.
 
     For additional information on the Virginia fuel factor proceeding, see ITEM
1, RATES, Virginia, below.
 
     On January 31, 1997, Virginia Power joined thirty-five other utility
petitioners in filing a lawsuit against the DOE in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, asking the court to authorize suspension of payments
to the Nuclear Waste Fund and to authorize payment into escrow those fees that
are collected from customers until the DOE begins accepting used fuel.




                   CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCING PROGRAM

Capital Requirements

     See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION on pages 30 through 32.

Construction and Nuclear Fuel Expenditures

     Virginia Power's estimated construction and nuclear fuel expenditures,
including Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC), for the three-year
period 1997-1999, total $1.5 billion. It has adopted a 1997 budget for
construction and nuclear fuel expenditures as set forth below:



Financing Program

     See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION on pages 29 through 32.

                                     RATES

     Virginia Power was subject to rate regulation in 1996 as follows:


 
     Substantially all of Virginia Power's electric sales are subject to
recovery of changes in fuel costs either through fuel adjustment factors or
periodic adjustments to base rates, each of which requires prior regulatory
approval.
 
     Each of these jurisdictions has the authority to disallow recovery of costs
it determines to be excessive or imprudently incurred. Various cost items may be
reviewed on occasion, including costs of constructing or modifying facilities,
on-going purchases of capacity or providing replacement power during generating
unit outages.

     The principal rate proceedings in which Virginia Power was involved in 1996
are described below by jurisdiction. Rate relief obtained by Virginia Power is
frequently less than requested.




FERC

     On May 14, 1996, the Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of
Defense (DOD), filed a Petition requesting FERC to declare DOD a wholesale
customer within Virginia. Alternatively, the Petition requested FERC to order
Virginia Power to wheel to DOD installations in Virginia. An agreement in
principle was subsequently reached for a new power supply contract, and the Navy
moved to withdraw its Petition, stating that the concerns expressed in the
Petition had been resolved. On July 15, 1996, three power marketers filed a
protest with DOD challenging the sole source negotiation and impending contract
with Virginia Power. The Department of the Navy, Naval Facilities Engineering
Command issued a decision on October 22, 1996, denying the protest, and finding
that competition between providers other than Virginia Power for the provisions
of electrical service to DOD facilities and activities within Virginia Power's
service territory in Virginia is not currently available. The Navy also noted
that the impending contract was not in contemplation of a new acquisition, but
was the result of periodic review of, and negotiation of a new rate under an
existing indefinite term contract. The supplemental agreement incorporating the
new rate was executed on October 30, 1996.

     In compliance with FERC's Order No. 888, on July 9, 1996, Virginia Power
filed an open access transmission service tariff, which became effective on July
9, 1996. On October 10, 1996, FERC issued a procedural order, scheduling a
hearing for April 28, 1997. Virginia Power and all parties reached a settlement
of issues raised in the proceeding, and on March 20, 1997, those parties jointly
filed with FERC the Settlement Agreement and Motion to Certify the Settlement
Agreement. Virginia Power is awaiting action on that motion by the presiding
Administrative Law Judge.

Virginia

     In 1995, the Virginia Commission authorized Virginia Power to implement a
pilot program providing a real time pricing (RTP) option for its industrial
customers with loads in excess of 10 Mw. Under this option, all or a portion of
an industrial customer's load growth would be supplied at projected incremental
hourly production costs, adjusted for line losses and taxes, plus a margin of
0.6 cents per Kwh. Additionally, a marginal cost-based Generation Capacity Adder
and a Transmission Capacity Adder would be applicable during those hours when
the Virginia Power system is approaching its forecasted annual peak demand. Up
to 20% of an industrial customer's existing load could be served on an RTP basis
if the customer

executes a five-year contract for such service. On July 24, 1996, the Commission
expanded the RTP schedule to make it available to commercial and industrial
customers with loads above 5 Mw.
 
     On July 31, 1996, Virginia Power filed with the Virginia Commission a
revised Schedule 19, which governs purchases from cogenerators and small power
producers of 100 kW or less. The schedule, which contains rates substantially
lower than those previously specified, became effective on an interim basis on
January 1, 1997. A hearing was held on January 30, 1997. The parties filed
briefs on March 14, 1997.
 
     On October 7, 1996, the Virginia Commission ordered that its investigation
regarding spent nuclear fuel disposal be consolidated with Virginia Power's next
fuel recovery proceeding. On October 21, 1996, Virginia Power filed an
application with the Commission to increase its fuel cost recovery by
approximately $48.2 million. On November 12, 1996, the Commission ordered that
the hearing on the consolidated proceedings be delayed from November 27, 1996 to
February 27, 1997, and that Virginia Power's proposed fuel factor become
effective on December 1, 1996. On January 8, 1997, the Commission postponed the
hearing to April 17, 1997. Any potential adjustments to the factor ordered after
hearing will be reflected prospectively after entry of the final order. On March
7, 1997, the Commission Staff filed a motion requesting that the Commission
remove the spent fuel disposal issue from Virginia Power's pending fuel factor
proceeding and return it to a separate proceeding.
 
North Carolina
 
     On September 13, 1996, Virginia Power filed an application with the North
Carolina Utilities Commission for a $3.2 million decrease in fuel rates. On
December 10, 1996, the Commission approved a $3.3 million decrease, effective
January 1, 1997.
 
     On November 4, 1996, Virginia Power filed for approval of a new Schedule 19
which governs purchases from cogenerators and small power producers. Virginia
Power proposed rates substantially lower than those previously specified as well
as proposed to reduce the applicability threshold to 100 kW and shorten the
maximum term of contracts under Schedule 19 to five years.
 
 

                        VIRGINIA POWER SOURCES OF POWER
 
Virginia Power Generating Units


 
- ---------------

(a) Includes an undivided interest of 11.6 percent (208 Mw) owned by Old
Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC).

(b) Includes an undivided interest of 50 percent (441 Mw) owned by ODEC.
 
(c) Effective January 25, 1996, this unit was placed in a cold reserve status.
 
(d) Reflects Virginia Power's 60 percent undivided ownership interest in the
2,100 Mw station. A 40 percent undivided interest in the facility is owned by
Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Power System, Inc. (AP).
 
     Virginia Power's highest one-hour integrated service area summer peak
demand of 14,003 Mw was established on August 2, 1995, and the all-time high
one-hour integrated winter peak demand of 14,910 Mw was established on February
5, 1996.
 
 

              VIRGINIA POWER SOURCES OF ENERGY USED AND FUEL COSTS
 
     The average fuel cost of system energy output is shown below:
 


     System energy output is shown below:



- ---------------

(*)  Excludes ODEC's 11.6 percent ownership interest in the North Anna Power
     Station.

(**) Excludes ODEC's 50 percent ownership interest in the Clover Power Station

Nuclear Operations and Fuel Supply

     In 1996, Virginia Power's four nuclear units achieved a combined capacity
factor of 88.2 percent.
 
     Virginia Power utilizes both long-term contracts and spot purchases to
support its needs for nuclear fuel. Virginia Power's nuclear fuel supply and
related services are expected to be adequate to support current and planned
nuclear generation requirements. Virginia Power continually evaluates worldwide
market conditions in order to obtain an adequate nuclear fuel supply. Current
agreements, inventories and market availability should support planned fuel
cycles throughout the remainder of the 1990s.
 
     On December 17, 1996, the DOE indicated that it will have to delay the
acceptance of spent fuel scheduled to begin in 1998. On-site spent nuclear fuel
storage at the Surry Power Station is adequate for Virginia Power's needs until
the DOE begins accepting spent fuel. The North Anna Power Station will require
additional spent fuel storage capacity in 1998. Virginia Power submitted a
license application to the NRC in May 1995 for such a facility at North Anna.
 
     For details regarding nuclear insurance and certain related contingent
liabilities as well as a NRC rule that requires proceeds from certain insurance
policies to be used first to pay stabilization and decontamination expenses, see
Note Q to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders.

Fossil Operations and Fuel Supply
 
     The commercial operation of Clover Power Station Unit 2 began on March 28,
1996. The summer capability of both Units 1 and 2 have been determined to be 441
Mw.
 
     Virginia Power's fossil fuel mix consists of coal, oil and natural gas. In
1996, Virginia Power consumed approximately 12 million tons of coal. As with
nuclear fuel, Virginia Power utilizes both long-term contracts and spot
purchases to support its needs. Virginia Power presently anticipates that
sufficient coal supplies at reasonable prices will be available for the
remainder of the 1990s. Current projections for an adequate supply of oil remain
favorable, barring unusual international events or extreme weather conditions
which could affect both price and supply.
 
     Virginia Power uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for two
combined cycle units and at several combustion turbine units. For winter usage
at the combined cycle sites, gas is purchased and stored during the summer and
fall and consumed during the colder months when gas supplies are not available
at favorable prices. Virginia Power has firm transportation contracts for the
delivery of gas to the combined cycle units. Current projections indicate gas
supplies will be available for the next several years.





Purchases and Sales of Power
 
     Virginia Power relies on purchases of power to meet a portion of its
capacity requirements. Virginia Power also makes economy purchases of power from
other utility systems when it is available at a cost lower than Virginia Power's
own generation costs.
 
     Under contracts effective January 1, 1985, Virginia Power agreed to
purchase 400 Mw of electricity annually through 1999 from Hoosier Energy Rural
Electric Cooperative, Inc. (Hoosier), and agreed to purchase 500 Mw of
electricity annually during 1987-99 from certain operating units of American
Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP).
 
     Virginia Power has a diversity exchange agreement with AP under which AP
delivers 200 Mw to Virginia Power in the summer and Virginia Power delivers 200
Mw to AP in the winter.
 
     Virginia Power also has 65 non-utility power purchase contracts with a
combined dependable summer capacity of 3,524 Mw. Of this amount, 3,509 Mw were
operational at the end of 1996 with the balance scheduled to come on-line
through 1999 (see Non-Utility Generation under VIRGINIA POWER FUTURE SOURCES OF
POWER below and Note Q to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders). In an effort to mitigate its exposure to
above-market long-term purchased power contracts, Virginia Power is evaluating
its long-term purchased power contracts and negotiating modifications to their
terms, including cancellations, where it is determined to be economically
advantageous to do so. Virginia Power has also negotiated settlements with
several other parties to terminate their rights to sell power to Virginia Power.
 
     In 1995, a wholesale power group was formed within Virginia Power to
actively participate in the purchase and sale of wholesale electric power in the
open market. The wholesale power group has expanded Virginia Power's trading
range beyond the geographic limits of the Virginia Power service territory, and
has developed trading relationships with utilities on a nationwide basis. During
1996, Virginia Power expanded its gas marketing activities, trading in the open
market both within and outside the Virginia Power service territory. The gas
marketing function is organized as a part of the wholesale power group and
broadens Virginia Power's product mix to provide a full range of wholesale
energy marketing services.
 
     On August 15, 1996, pursuant to the provisions of the Interconnection and
Operating Agreement between ODEC and Virginia Power, ODEC gave written notice of
its intent to reduce its supplemental demand purchases under that Agreement to
zero within nine years. 1997 supplemental demand charges (other than charges
relating to transmission and distribution which will continue in any case) are
expected to be $63 million. On November 19, 1996, Virginia Power and ODEC
reached principles of agreement providing that Virginia Power will continue to
supply all of ODEC's supplemental capacity needs through 2005, rather than the
declining amounts after 1999 under prior agreements. Under the principles of
agreement, Virginia Power's recovery of fixed charges will be reduced over time
as supplemental capacity rates transition from fully-embedded costs to
market-based pricing. Virginia Power estimates the reduced rates, offset in part
by other revenues which may be earned under the agreement, will decrease income
before taxes by approximately $38 million through 2005.

                                INTERCONNECTIONS
 
     Virginia Power maintains major interconnections with Carolina Power and
Light Company, AEP, AP and the utilities in the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland
Power Pool. Through this major transmission network, Virginia Power has
arrangements with these utilities for coordinated planning, operation, emergency
assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy.
 
     On June 19, 1996, a transmission alliance was formed among Virginia Power,
AP, Centerior Energy and Ohio Edison to promote fair and equitable use of the
transmission systems. This alliance is an outgrowth of the General Agreement on
Parallel Paths (GAPP), a group of 21 utilities, independent power producers,
cooperatives, and public power authorities, that was formed in the early 1990s
to work on a series of principles to govern inter-system wholesale power
transfers. The four utilities that are initiating the transmission alliance are
all members of the GAPP initiative and are forming the alliance to specifically
further the principles of GAPP as the electric utility industry continues the
evolution to, and beyond, open access transmission service. The alliance has
adopted the specific GAPP principles to ensure that proper reimbursement is made
to each alliance utility handling a power transfer through the parallel path
concept. A GAPP Matrix Subcommittee will determine the parallel paths any
specific transaction will take and the GAPP compensation procedure will
determine the compensation owed to the utilities involved. Virginia Power views
the alliance as an important step towards implementing flow and distance
sensitive pricing of transmission service.
 
     On December 4, 1996, Virginia Power and five other North American utilities
announced plans for a test of principles designed to maintain the reliability of
electric transmission systems, encourage optimal use of the facilities, and
ensure fair payment for their use. Virginia Power and the four other U.S.
utilities involved in the plan asked FERC for permission to test
 
 

compensation methods contained in GAPP. Using the GAPP principles, participants
in the test would use actual power flows to allocate among themselves
transmission service revenues. The five U.S. participants asked FERC for
permission to begin the test on April 2, 1997. In addition to Virginia Power,
the U.S. participants in the test include Allegheny Power, Centerior Energy,
Ohio Edison and the Southern Company. While not under FERC jurisdiction, Ontario
Hydro is also a participant in the experiment. The experiment would also give
utilities more thorough information on the use of regional transmission capacity
by utilizing the GAPP Information System (GIS). This system stores data
regarding scheduled power transactions and analyzes the anticipated paths the
power will take during the transfers. The information is essential for optimal
use of the integrated transmission network.
 
     The GAPP principles have been developed during the last five years by a
broad cross-section of transmission users, including utilities in the United
States and Canada, public power authorities, rural electric cooperatives, power
marketers and independent power producers. The principles are designed to deal
with the issue of parallel flows. Within tightly interconnected transmission
grids, power does not always flow in a direct path -- often called the "contract
path" -- from seller to buyer. The power may in fact flow through several
adjoining systems to get to the end-user, even if the buyer and seller are
directly interconnected. Under current rules, utilities are not fully
compensated for the use of these "parallel paths." Compensation for transmission
services historically has been based on contract paths. The companies in the
GAPP experiment will analyze the paths power actually takes through their
system, then allocate transmission service compensation to reflect those paths.
For the five utilities in the United States, the allocations will be based on
the open access transmission tariffs each filed with FERC in response to FERC
Order 888. In their filing, the participants noted that the test could be
expanded to include additional utilities and other entities that receive revenue
from transmission services. The test will have no effect on the rates the six
utilities charge for transmission services.
 
     Virginia Power and Appalachian Power Company (AEP Virginia) (an operating
unit of AEP) have each sought approval from the Virginia Commission to construct
interconnecting transmission facilities. AEP Virginia proposes to construct 116
miles of 765 Kv line to connect with Virginia Power's proposed 102 miles of 500
Kv line. Virginia Power does not intend to build its facility unless the AEP
Virginia facility, which requires approval in West Virginia as well as Virginia,
is also approved and built. Approval of both facilities has been recommended by
a Virginia Commission Hearing Examiner. On December 13, 1995, the Virginia
Commission issued an Interim Order in the AEP Virginia case in which it found
that additional transmission capacity is needed but directed AEP Virginia to
provide further information as to routing, mitigation of visual impact, and uses
of the line.
 
                            FUTURE SOURCES OF POWER
 
     As reported earlier, both the Hoosier 400 Mw long-term purchase and the AEP
500 Mw long-term purchase will expire on December 31, 1999. With the scheduled
termination of 900 Mw of long-term purchases and continued system load growth,
Virginia Power presently anticipates adding 1,200 Mw of short-term (three-year)
purchases beginning in the year 2000. Virginia Power has and will pursue
capacity acquisition plans to provide that capacity and maintain a high degree
of service reliability. This capacity may be owned and operated by others and
sold to Virginia Power or may be built by Virginia Power if it determines it can
build capacity at a lower overall cost. Virginia Power also pursues conservation
and demand-side management (see CONSERVATION AND LOAD MANAGEMENT below).
 
     Virginia Power's continuing program to meet future capacity requirements is
summarized in the following table:
 
Company Owned Generation
 
     No Company owned generation is currently in the planning or construction
stages.
 
Non-Utility Generation
 


     For additional information, see Note Q to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders.
 
 

                     COMPETITION AND STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
 
     A number of developments in the United States are causing a trend toward
less regulation of and more competition in the electric utility industry. This
is evidenced by legislative and regulatory action at both the federal and state
levels. To the extent that competition is either authorized or mandated and
regulation is eliminated or relaxed, electric utilities will no longer, in the
absence of appropriate legislative or regulatory action during the transition
period, be guaranteed an opportunity to recover all of their prudently-incurred
costs including their cost of capital, and utilities with costs that exceed the
market prices established by the competitive market will run the risk of
suffering losses, which may be substantial.
 
     Virginia Power has responded to these trends by undertaking cost-cutting
measures, engaging in re-engineering efforts of its core business processes, and
pursuing a strategic planning initiative (called Vision 2000) to encourage
innovative approaches to servicing traditional markets and to develop
appropriate methods by which to service future markets. Virginia Power has
established separate business units for its nuclear operations, fossil and
hydroelectric operations, commercial operations and its energy services
business. A re-engineering and re-missioning review of the Fossil and
Hydroelectric Business Unit and Nuclear Business Unit has been completed and
implementation is now complete. The Corporate Center is now in the final stages
of review. Virginia Power's Commercial Operations Business Unit has completed
its review and has begun implementation of several organizational modifications
and applications of new technology to improve customer service and reduce
operational costs. Some of these improvements will require investments of
approximately $100 million, which will be expended over several years.
 
     Virginia Power has created a subsidiary to provide nuclear management and
operation services to electric utilities seeking assistance in the management
and operation of their nuclear generating facilities; it acquired an operating
business, A&C Enercom, Inc., a provider of marketing, program planning and
design, customer engineering and energy consulting services; it is seeking
approval to engage in the telecommunications business; and it is in the planning
stages of creating additional subsidiaries to engage in these and other
unregulated businesses. It is also taking regulatory and legislative initiatives
designed to enhance the likelihood that the transition to competition is an
orderly one and that Virginia Power will not be prevented from recovering
prudently-incurred costs and investments.
 
     In addition, Virginia Power is actively pursuing opportunities to expand
its markets through strategic alliances with partners whose strengths, market
position and strategies complement Virginia Power's and where efficiencies can
be gained through the alliance.
 
     A significant part of Virginia Power's strategy relies on developing
"non-traditional" business opportunities designed to provide growth in earnings.
The Energy Services Business Unit is the most prominent example of this growth
strategy. The Energy Services Business Unit is expected to contribute to
earnings growth by offering the market a portfolio of energy related products
and services. Other examples of such opportunities include the Fossil & Hydro
Business Unit, through which Virginia Power will target process type industries,
such as chemical, paper, plastics and petroleum to become a service provider of
instrumentation equipment, and the Nuclear Business Unit, whose position as an
industry leader offers opportunities to provide services to other nuclear
utilities striving to improve their safety records. The Commercial Operations
Business Unit will provide power distribution related service. Finally, the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 opened up opportunities to generate growth
through use of existing telecommunications infrastructure to provide
telecommunications services and new energy services through Virginia Power's
existing fiber-optic network.
 
     Virginia Power has organized a wholesale power group to engage in
off-system wholesale purchases and sales, and that group is developing trading
relationships beyond the geographic limits of Virginia Power's retail service
territory. Virginia Power has also been successful in negotiation of wholesale
requirements contracts with multi-year provisions for notice of termination of
service and a long-term contract with large federal government customers for
service to facilities within Virginia Power's service territory and has obtained
regulatory approval of innovative pricing proposals for industrial loads,
although rate concessions have been necessary in some cases. To date, Virginia
Power has not experienced any material loss of load, and the reduction of 1997
revenues attributable to such rate concessions is expected to approximate $22
million.
 
     For a more detailed discussion, see Competition under FUTURE ISSUES in
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS.
 
 

                        CONSERVATION AND LOAD MANAGEMENT
 
     Virginia Power is committed to evaluating and selecting demand-side and
supply-side options on a consistent basis in order to provide reliable, low-cost
service to its customers. Conservation and load management programs are selected
annually at Virginia Power through an integrated resource planning process which
directly compares the stream of costs and benefits from supply-side and
demand-side options. This process supports the selection of a conservation and
load management portfolio which contributes both to the selection of low-cost
resources to meet the future electricity needs of Virginia Power's customers as
well as the efficient use of current resources.
 
     Recent declines in avoided costs and the arrival of competition have caused
Virginia Power to modify the package of cost-effective measures which it
supports in the annual Energy Efficiency Plan. In the future, Virginia Power
anticipates a greater reliance on the use of price signals to convey information
to our customers regarding costs, resulting in more efficient purchase
decisions. Finally, in an investigation sparked by the fundamental changes
occurring in the electric utility industry, the Virginia Commission has
requested Virginia Power to evaluate the Commission's current policies regarding
conservation and load management programs.

                               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     Dominion Resources owns the building at One James River Plaza, Richmond,
Virginia, in which Virginia Power has its principal offices. Dominion Resources'
other assets consist primarily of its investments in its subsidiaries, which
invest in various enterprises and assets, as described in THE COMPANY under Item
1. BUSINESS above. See also Virginia Power Generating Units under VIRGINIA POWER
SOURCES OF POWER under Item 1. BUSINESS.
 
                           ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     From time to time, Virginia Power may be in violation of or in default
under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating to protection of the
environment, compliance plans imposed upon or agreed to by Virginia Power or
permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the construction
or operation of facilities. There may be pending from time to time
administrative proceedings involving violations of state or federal
environmental regulations that Virginia Power believes are not material with
respect to it and for which its aggregate liability for fines or penalties will
not exceed $100,000. There are no material agency enforcement actions or citizen
suits pending or, to Virginia Power's present knowledge, threatened against
Virginia Power.
 
     The civil action filed December 13, 1995, in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division, was dismissed by
the Federal Court on August 7, 1996. However, two civil actions have been filed
in the Virginia Circuit Court of the City of Norfolk against the City of Norfolk
and Virginia Power, one for fifteen million dollars and one for three million
dollars, by property owners who each allege contamination of their respective
properties by hazardous substances originating on nearby property now owned by
the city and formerly owned by Virginia Power. Virginia Power has filed answers
denying liability. A trial date of August 18, 1997 has been set for the action
seeking fifteen million dollars.
 
     In reference to the lawsuit filed by Dominion Energy and Dominion Cogen
D.C., Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs) against the District of Columbia (the
District) for deprivation of due process, the Court on March 4, 1997 denied in
part the District's partial motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff's contracts
clause claim and denied in its entirety the District's motion for partial
summary judgment on Plaintiff's claims for damages. The Court also permitted 1)
the District to assert its counterclaims; and 2) Plaintiffs to amend their
complaint. In addition, all parties were ordered to meet and confer regarding
the completion of discovery.

     On May 24, 1996, in the proceeding to investigate the holding company
structure and the relationship between Dominion Resources and Virginia Power,
the Virginia Commission entered an order imposing certain requirements as to the
adoption of conflict-of-interest standards, auditing of affiliate transactions,
and compensation for executive services. The proceeding was continued until July
12, 1997 to allow the Commission and its Staff to monitor the companies and
evaluate whether further action by the Commission might be desirable. A consent
order requiring Commission approval before Dominion Resources can take certain
actions involving Virginia Power was allowed to expire in accordance with its
terms on July 2, 1996.
 
          ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
                                     None.
 
 

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 

 
 

                                    PART II
 
             ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Dominion Resources common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and at December 31, 1996 there were 248,929 registered common shareholders of
record. Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends contained on
page 50 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1996 in Note U to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
which is filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
                        ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     This information contained under the caption "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" on page 53 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
 
                  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
                          FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
     This annual report contains "forward-looking statements" as defined by the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including (without limitation)
discussions as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives and future financial
performance, or assumptions underlying or concerning matters discussed in this
document. These discussions, and any other discussions contained in this report
that are not historical facts, are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve
estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that
could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed
in the forward-looking statements. In addition to certain contingency matters
(and their respective cautionary statements) discussed elsewhere in this report,
the following important factors should be considered with respect to any
forward-looking statements made herein:
 
     Current governmental policies and regulatory actions both domestic and
international (including those of FERC, the EPA, the NRC and the Virginia
Commission), industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities,
acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and storage
facilities, recovery of the cost of purchased power, nuclear decommissioning
costs, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, economic and
geographic factors including political and economic risks (particularly those
associated with international development and operations, including currency
fluctuation), changes in and compliance with environmental laws and policies,
weather conditions and catastrophic weather related damage, competition for
retail and wholesale customers, pricing and transportation of commodities,
market demand for energy, inflation, capital market conditions, unanticipated
development project delays or changes in project costs, unanticipated changes in
operating expenses and capital expenditures, competition for new energy
development opportunities and legal and administrative proceedings. All such
factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties that may materially
affect actual results, and may be beyond the control of Dominion Resources. New
factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to
predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on
the businesses of Dominion Resources.
 
     Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such
statement is made, and Dominion Resources undertakes no obligation to update any
forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after
the date on which such statement is made.
 
Overview
 
     Dominion Resources achieved earnings of $472.1 million in 1996 or $2.65 per
average common share, compared with earnings of $425 million in 1995 or $2.45
per share. Virginia Power's utility operations increased its contribution to
$421.8 million in 1996 or $2.37 per share, from the $388.7 million earned in
1995 or $2.24 per share. Dominion Energy's independent power and natural gas
operations earned $32.5 million in 1996 or 18 cents per share, a slight decrease
from the $35 million earned in 1995 or 20 cents per share. Dominion Capital's
financial services and real estate businesses earned $28.5 million in 1996 or 16
cents per share, an increase over the $17.6 million earned in 1995 or 10 cents
per share. Corporate overhead expenses fell in 1996, reducing its net loss to
$10.7 million or 6 cents per share, compared with a net loss in 1995 of $16.3
million or 9 cents per share.
 


                                   NET INCOME



                               EARNINGS PER SHARE



     The 1996 results were affected by a number of factors described below:

  Virginia Power

     Earnings were impacted by:

     (Bullet) an increase in kilowatt-hour sales from retail customers due to
              continued customer growth in the Virginia Power and North Carolina
              Power service areas; partially offset by lower base revenues due
              to the effect of mild summer weather in 1996 on summer retail
              rates; and
 
     (Bullet) an increase in power marketing (wholesale) and energy services
              (A&C Enercom) revenues; and
 
     (Bullet) lower other operation and maintenance expenses, even with an
              additional $21 million in service restoration costs resulting from
              severe storms like Hurricane Fran, and an additional $22 million
              due to growth in the energy services business (A&C Enercom); and
 
     (Bullet) lower restructuring expenses; and

     (Bullet) higher depreciation expenses relating to the new Clover Power
              Station whose units began operating in October 1995 and March
              1996.
 
  Dominion Energy
 
     Earnings were impacted by:

     (Bullet) an increase in natural gas production and prices; offset by
 
     (Bullet) a decrease in income when compared to the gain ($5.4 million, net
              of tax) realized in 1995 from the sale of the remaining units of
              the Black Warrior Trust.
 
  Dominion Capital
 
     Earnings were impacted by:
 
     (Bullet) an increase in income from Saxon Mortgage, the new financial
              services business which originates non-conforming residential
              mortgages and packages them -- through a securitization -- for
              sale to institutional investors.
 
  Corporate
 
     Earnings were impacted by:
 
     (Bullet) a decrease in expenses when compared to the $12.4 million of
              restructuring costs and other charges incurred in 1995.

Virginia Power
 
  Results of Operations
 
     As part of the Vision 2000 program to transition Virginia Power to a
potential future of competition in the electric utility industry, Virginia Power
recorded $91.6 million in restructuring expenses in 1996 and $117.9 million in
1995 (see Note O). Restructuring charges included severance costs, purchased
power contract restructuring and negotiated settlement costs, capital project
cancellation costs, reserve for expected adjustments to regulatory assets, and
other costs. Without restructuring
 


expenses, balance available for common stock in 1996 and 1995 would have
increased by $59.5 million and $76.6 million, respectively.
 
     Virginia Power estimates that the staffing reductions will result in annual
savings in the range of $62 million to $90 million. When realized, savings from
staffing reductions will be reflected in lower construction expenditures as well
as lower operation and maintenance expenses. While Virginia Power may incur
additional charges for further staffing reductions in 1997, the amounts are not
expected to be significant.
 
     In 1995, Virginia Power reported a decrease in balance available for common
stock of $16.2 million when compared to the 1994 results of $404.9 million. The
decrease was primarily due to increases in operating expenses attributable to
restructuring costs which reduced earnings by $0.44 per share offset in part by
an increase in kilowatt-hour sales from both retail and wholesale customers.
 


  Operating Revenues
 
     As detailed in the chart below, the decrease in 1996 retail revenues
reflects a reduction in fuel rate revenues and a reduction in base revenues due
to the effect of the mild summer weather in 1996 on Virginia Power's summer
retail rates which are designed to reflect expected usage during normal weather
conditions, offset in part by continued customer growth during 1996. The
increased sales to wholesale customers were primarily a result of Virginia
Power's marketing efforts during 1996, offset by a decrease in sales to Old
Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) due to completion of Clover Units 1 and 2,
of which ODEC owns a 50 percent interest. Other operating revenues increased
primarily as a result of the revenues generated by Virginia Power's energy
services subsidiary, A&C Enercom.
 
     In 1995 Virginia Power's revenues increased primarily due to the weather
experienced in the last six months of 1995, customer growth and increased sales
to wholesale customers.
 
                               OPERATING REVENUES

 
     During 1996, Virginia Power had 44,528 new connections to its system
compared to 44,955 and 46,741 in 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
                              KILOWATT-HOUR SALES
 

 
 

     The increase in retail kilowatt-hour sales in 1996 compared to 1995
reflects continued customer growth. The increase in sales to wholesale customers
was primarily due to Virginia Power's power marketing efforts.

     The increase in kilowatt-hour sales in 1995 compared to 1994 reflects
increased customer growth and the weather experienced in the last six months of
1995, partially offset by the milder weather experienced in the first six months
of 1995.
 
                               DEGREE-DAYS CHART
 

 
                               OPERATING EXPENSES
                        (EXCLUDING FEDERAL INCOME TAXES)


 
     Maintenance decreased compared to 1995, primarily as a result of a
reduction in expenses attributable to Virginia Power's Vision 2000 initiatives,
offset in part by the higher storm damage costs incurred from destructive summer
storms, including Hurricane Fran.
 
     Depreciation and amortization increased compared to 1995, primarily as a
result of greater nuclear decommissioning expense and depreciation related to
Clover Units 1 and 2 which were placed in service in October 1995 and March
1996, respectively.
 
     Other operation and maintenance decreased in 1995 compared to 1994.
Expenses during 1994 included payroll and voluntary separation costs for those
employees who elected to terminate service with Virginia Power under the 1994
Early Retirement and Voluntary Separation Programs, offset in part by
recognition of insurance policyholder distributions. Expenses in 1995 reflected
a decrease in payroll costs due to reduced staffing levels and weather-related
overtime, offset by 1995 salary increases and the impact of employees being
reassigned from capital to operation and maintenance activities. In addition,
1995 expenses include expenses associated with the North Branch Power Station,
increased obsolete inventory costs, increased accruals for employee benefits,
and increased nuclear outage costs.
 
  Nonoperating Income and Expenses, Net
 
     Nonoperating expenses, net increased in 1995 as compared to 1994 primarily
as a result of higher interest rates on the utility's First and Refunding
Mortgage Bonds and Pollution Control Notes and as a result of a reduction of
$10.6 million in the interest accrued for prior years on certain tax obligations
in 1994.
 
Dominion Energy
 
  New Businesses
 
     Dominion Energy has expanded its oil and natural gas and foreign power
generation businesses through the development of existing assets and the
following acquisitions.
 
     In March 1996, Dominion Energy, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired
interests in natural gas and oil properties in the Gulf of Mexico. The estimated
proved reserves from this acquisition were 36 billion cubic feet of natural gas
and 1.9 million barrels of oil and liquids.
 
     In April 1996, Dominion Energy acquired a gas management and marketing
company, Carthage Energy Services, Inc.
 
     In August 1996, Dominion Energy, through wholly-owned subsidiaries,
acquired a 60-percent ownership and management interest in Empresa de Generacion
Electrica NorPeru S.A. (EGENOR). EGENOR is a generation company providing power
to Peru's northern region. The government-owned ElectroPeru S.A. and the
employees of EGENOR collectively retain
 
 

a 40-percent interest in EGENOR. Dominion Energy continues to assess sale
opportunities for a portion of its interest in EGENOR to a third party.
 
  Results of Operations
 
     Dominion Energy's net income amounted to $32.5 million as compared to $35
million in 1995. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to a reduction in
the company's reported gain on sale of assets which in 1995 included a $5.4
million after tax gain on the sale of Black Warrior Trust Units.
 
     In 1995, net income decreased by $24.6 million when compared to 1994
primarily due to the sale of the Black Warrior Trust Units in 1994. The sale of
the units, which hold royalty interests in proven, developed natural gas
properties, provided a net gain of $28.9 million in 1994.


 
  Revenues
 
     In 1996, revenues increased compared to 1995 by $84.8 million. The increase
was due to added capacity in foreign power generation resulting from a full year
of operations by Empresa Electrica Corani S.A. (Corani) in Bolivia and the 1996
acquisition of EGENOR. In addition, gas price increases and the increase in gas
production due to the acquisition and development of natural gas properties
provided additional revenues in 1996 not available in 1995.
 
     In 1995, revenues decreased as compared to 1994 by $28.3 million due to the
sale in 1994 of the Black Warrior Trust Units. This revenue reduction was
partially offset by the increase in 1995 in gas revenues due to increased gas
prices and production.
 
  Operating Expenses
 
     In 1996, operating expenses increased by $82.7 million as compared to 1995,
primarily due to a full year's incurrence of operating, maintenance and
depreciation expenses at Corani. The increase was also due to similar expenses
incurred by EGENOR, which was not part of Dominion Energy's operations in 1995,
and the additional depreciation and depletion expenses incurred due to the
acquisition and development of oil and gas properties.
 
Dominion Capital
 
  New Businesses
 
     On May 13, 1996, Dominion Capital, through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
acquired the stock of Saxon Mortgage, Inc. (Saxon Mortgage), the company's
single-family mortgage origination division and Meritech Mortgage Services,
Inc., the company's single-family mortgage servicing operation. Dominion Capital
also organized a new indirect subsidiary, Saxon Asset Securities, Inc., which is
responsible for securitizing the single-family residential loans.
 
  Results of Operations
 
     Dominion Capital's net income for 1996 amounted to $28.5 million as
compared to $17.6 million in 1995. The increase in earnings was primarily due to
residential mortgage loan securitizations performed by Saxon Asset Securities,
Inc.
 
     In 1995, Dominion Capital reported a decrease in net income of $1.3 million
when compared to the 1994 results of $18.9 million. The results were primarily
due to the increase in taxes because of a reduction in other tax benefits and
higher income subject to tax. These expenses were offset in part by an increase
in revenues at First Source Financial, Inc. (First Source Financial). First
Source Financial, which began operations in April 1995, is a commercial lender
to middle-market businesses.
 

 
 

  Revenues
 
     In 1996, Dominion Capital's revenues increased $74.5 million when compared
to 1995 primarily due to the gains recognized in the securitizations of
residential mortgage loans which contributed $41.9 million to revenues.

     Revenues in 1995 were $12.6 million higher than revenues in 1994 primarily
due to revenues from First Source Financial.
 
  Operating Expenses
 
     In 1996, operating expenses increased by $43.7 million when compared to
1995 due to additional real estate project costs and the operating expenses
incurred at Saxon Mortgage, which was acquired in 1996 by Dominion Capital.
 
  Nonoperating Income and Expenses, Net
 
     Nonoperating expenses, net increased by $19.9 million in 1996 compared to
1995 primarily due to an increase in pre-tax book income.
 
     Federal income taxes increased in 1995 compared to 1994 by $18.3 million
primarily due to the decrease in other tax benefits plus higher income subject
to tax.
 
Corporate
 
  Results of Operations

     In 1996, Corporate net loss has decreased by $5.6 million compared to 1995
primarily due to $3.6 million in restructuring expenses and the $8.8 million in
other charges recorded in 1995. These expenses included restructuring costs at
the holding company as well as litigation and other costs.
 
     Net income in 1995 decreased $11.1 million compared to 1994 primarily due
to the recording of $3.6 million of restructuring expenses and $8.8 million in
other charges.
 
Future Issues
 
  Utility Issues
 
     Regulatory Matters: Regulatory policy continues to be of fundamental
importance to Virginia Power.
 
     On October 7, 1996, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (the Virginia
Commission) ordered that its investigation regarding spent nuclear fuel disposal
be consolidated with Virginia Power's next fuel recovery proceeding. On October
21, 1996, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia Commission to
increase its annual fuel cost recovery approximately $48.2 million. The proposed
fuel factor became effective on December 1, 1996. A hearing has been scheduled
for April 17, 1997. Any potential adjustments to the factor ordered after the
hearing will be reflected prospectively after entry of the final order.
 
     On November 12, 1996, the Virginia Commission instituted a proceeding and
directed Virginia Power to provide certain information, including any
alternative form of regulation proposed by Virginia Power at this time, by March
31, 1997. On March 7, 1997, in this proceeding and in a separate Annual
Information Filing proceeding, the Virginia Commission entered an order
providing that Virginia Power's rates shall become interim rates subject to
refund as of March 1, 1997.
 
     Various provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the Energy Act) that
could affect Virginia Power include those provisions encouraging the development
of non-utility generation, giving the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC) authority to order transmission access for wholesale transactions,
requiring higher energy efficiency and alternative fuels use, restructuring of
nuclear plant licensing procedures and requiring state regulatory authorities to
give full rate treatment for the effects of conservation and demand management
programs, including the effects of reduced sales. While the full impact of the
Energy Act on Virginia Power cannot at this time be quantified, it is likely,
over time, to be significant.

     Competition: A number of developments in the United States are causing a
trend toward less regulation of and more competition in the electric utility
industry. This is evidenced by legislative and regulatory action at both the
federal and state levels. To the extent that competition is either authorized or
mandated and regulation is eliminated or relaxed, electric utilities will no
longer, in the absence of appropriate legislative or regulatory action during
the transition period, be guaranteed an opportunity to recover all of their
prudently-incurred costs including their cost of capital, and utilities with
costs that exceed the market prices established by the competitive market will
run the risk of suffering losses, which may be substantial.
 
     Virginia Power has responded to these trends by undertaking cost-cutting
measures, engaging in re-engineering efforts of its core business processes, and
pursuing a strategic planning initiative (called Vision 2000) to encourage
innovative approaches to servicing traditional markets and to develop
appropriate methods by which to service future markets. Virginia Power has
established separate business units for its nuclear operations, fossil and
hydroelectric operations, commercial operations and its energy services
business. It has created a subsidiary to provide nuclear management and
operation services
 
 

to electric utilities seeking assistance in the management and operation of
their nuclear generating facilities; it has acquired an operating business, A&C
Enercom, Inc., a provider of marketing, program planning and design, customer
engineering and energy consulting services; it is seeking approval to engage in
the telecommunications business; and it is in the planning stages of creating
additional subsidiaries to engage in these and other unregulated businesses. It
is also taking regulatory and legislative initiatives designed to enhance the
likelihood that the transition to competition is an orderly one and that
Virginia Power will not be prevented from recovering prudently-incurred costs
and investments.
 
     In addition, Virginia Power is actively pursuing strategic alliances with
partners whose strengths, market position and strategies complement Virginia
Power's and where efficiencies can be gained through the alliance.
 
     Virginia Power has organized a wholesale power group to engage in
off-system wholesale purchases and sales, and that group is developing trading
relationships beyond the geographic limits of Virginia Power's retail service
territory. Virginia Power has also been successful in negotiation of wholesale
requirements contracts with multi-year provisions for notice of termination of
service and a long-term contract with large federal government customers for
service to facilities within Virginia Power's service territory and has obtained
regulatory approval of innovative pricing proposals for industrial loads,
although rate concessions have been necessary in some cases. To date, Virginia
Power has not experienced any material loss of load, and the reduction in 1997
revenues attributable to such rate concessions is expected to approximate $22
million.
 
     Competition-Wholesale: Competition at the wholesale level has been mandated
by the Energy Act and FERC regulations thereunder. During 1996, sales to
wholesale customers represented approximately 8 percent of Virginia Power's
total revenues from electric sales. Approximately 4 percent of wholesale
revenues resulted from Virginia Power's marketing efforts to make off-system
sales.
 
     FERC established the requirements for open transmission access and related
matters in final rules issued on April 24, 1996 in Order No. 888 and Order No.
889. This enables other suppliers of power to displace electric service provided
by a utility to wholesale customers served by the utility's transmission system,
unless those customers are required by contract to take service from the
utility. The orders required utilities to file with FERC an open access
transmission tariff, which Virginia Power did on July 9, 1996; they require
utilities to take transmission service under that tariff for wholesale power
sales; they provide for utilities to recover legitimate, prudent and verifiable
costs that would be unrecoverable in a competitive market (stranded costs); they
require utilities to participate in an open access same-time information system
(OASIS); and they require separation of transmission operations and reliability
functions from wholesale merchant and marketing functions. FERC also issued a
notice of proposed rulemaking proposing replacement of open access tariffs with
a capacity reservation tariff by December 31, 1997. On March 4, 1997, FERC
issued Order No. 888-A, in which it addressed requests for rehearing of Order
No. 888. Order No. 888-A essentially reaffirms the basic principles of Order No.
888 and clarifies and makes limited modifications to Order No. 888. Parties
seeking judicial review of Order Nos. 888 and 888-A must file petition for
review with the appropriate United States Court of Appeal by May 5, 1997.
 
     On August 15, 1996, pursuant to the provisions of the Interconnection and
Operating Agreement between ODEC and Virginia Power, ODEC gave written notice of
its intent to reduce its supplemental demand purchases under that Agreement to
zero within nine years. 1997 supplemental demand charges (other than charges
relating to transmission and distribution which will continue in any case) are
expected to be $63 million. On November 19, 1996, Virginia Power and ODEC
reached principles of agreement providing that Virginia Power will continue to
supply all of ODEC's supplemental capacity needs through 2005, rather than the
declining amounts after 1999 under prior agreements. Under the principles of
agreement, Virginia Power's recovery of fixed charges will be reduced over time
as supplemental capacity rates transition from fully-embedded costs to
market-based pricing. Virginia Power estimates the reduced rates, offset in part
by other revenues which may be earned under the agreement, will decrease income
before taxes by approximately $38 million through 2005.
 
     Competition-Retail: General retail competition presently is not authorized
in Virginia and North Carolina, and as a result Virginia Power faces competition
for retail sales only in the ability of certain business customers to relocate
among utility service territories, to substitute other energy sources for
electric power, and to generate their own electricity. But major customers,
principally industrial, and other suppliers of power are advocating retail
competition vigorously in Congress and in the Virginia and North Carolina
legislatures and commissions. Legislation either to authorize or require retail
competition is under consideration in the present Congress; a joint subcommittee
of the Virginia Senate and House of Delegates is considering whether and how
such competition should be allowed or required; and legislation is pending
before the North Carolina General Assembly that would establish a study
commission to determine whether legislation is necessary to ensure adequate,
reliable and economical electric service in light of current trends in the
industry.
 
     Virginia Power has been advocating a cautious and measured approach to the
question of retail competition. In 1996 it initiated legislation, which was
enacted by the Virginia General Assembly and became effective on July 1, 1996,
that authorizes the Virginia Commission to approve alternative forms of
regulation, economic development rates and packages of incentive rates; that
facilitates a regulated utility's ability to enter into joint ventures and
partnerships; that authorizes the
 
 

Virginia Commission to determine the treatment of stranded costs for service to
federal customer accounts, which are otherwise outside the Commission's
ratemaking jurisdiction; that establishes that a local referendum must be held
before municipalization of utility services may occur for services previously
provided by a utility; and that authorizes the Virginia Commission to determine
stranded cost payments when utility property is condemned by a municipality or
other corporation possessing the power of eminent domain. Virginia Power has
also obtained regulatory approval of innovative pricing proposals for industrial
loads in Virginia and North Carolina and entered into an energy partnership with
a key industrial customer.
 
     The Virginia Commission is taking an active interest in retail competition
in the electric utility industry and the industry restructuring that might
accompany such competition. It has instituted both a generic investigation of
industry restructuring and competition and a separate proceeding specifically
involving Virginia Power. Virginia Power has proposed in that case an
alternative regulatory plan intended to facilitate an orderly transition to
competition, if such competition should be allowed, including full recovery of
any potentially stranded costs. Virginia Power's case was filed with the
Commission on March 24, 1997, and it proposes a freeze of present rates through
December 31, 2002, during which a portion of earnings above the approved level
would be used to accelerate the write-off of generation-related regulatory
assets and mitigate the costs associated with payments under power purchase
contracts with non-utility generators. If the proposed plan is approved,
Virginia Power would commit to writeoff $494 million of regulatory assets or
other potentially stranded costs during the five-year rate freeze period;
however, Virginia Power believes that current rates, which are requested to
remain in effect, would be sufficient to permit the recognition of these costs
without adversely impacting the results of operations during and after the five-
year period. Virginia Power also seeks approval of the principle of stranded
cost recovery as well as approval of a Transition Cost Charge mechanism by which
costs that may become stranded at the onset of competition will be recoverable
from customers who elect to purchase their power in the competitive market if
retail competition is allowed in Virginia. The Commission has not established a
procedural schedule for Virginia Power's case.
 
     For a more detailed description of the Virginia Commission proceedings, see
Regulation under Item 1. BUSINESS.
 
     Competition-SFAS 71: Virginia Power's regulated rates are designed to
recover its prudently incurred costs of providing service, including the
opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its shareholders' investment.
Virginia Power's financial statements reflect assets and costs under this
cost-based rate regulation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 71 (SFAS 71), "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation," which provides that certain expenses normally reflected in income
are deferred on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and are recognized as the
related amounts are included in rates and recovered from customers. Continued
accounting under SFAS 71 requires that rates designed to recover the utility's
specific costs of providing service, are, and will continue to be, established
by regulators. The presence of increasing competition that limits the utility's
ability to charge rates that recover its costs, or a change in the method of
regulation with the same effect, could result in the discontinued applicability
of SFAS 71.
 
     Rate-regulated companies are required to write off regulatory assets
against earnings whenever those assets no longer meet the criteria for
recognition as defined by SFAS 71. In addition, SFAS 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,"
requires a review of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances, such as those used to determine continued applicability of
SFAS 71, indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
 
     Virginia Power's operations currently satisfy the SFAS 71 criteria.
However, if events or circumstances should change so that those criteria are no
longer satisfied, management believes that a material adverse effect on Virginia
Power's results of operations and financial position may result. In light of
changes predicted for the electric utility industry, Virginia Power will
continue monitoring its regulated operations in light of the SFAS 71
requirements.
 
     Competition -- Exposure to Potentially Stranded Costs: Under traditional
cost-based regulation, utilities have generally had an obligation to serve
supported by an implicit promise of the opportunity to recover prudently
incurred costs. The most significant potential adverse effect of competition is
"stranded costs," those costs incurred or commitments made by utilities under
cost-based regulation that may not be reasonably expected to be recovered in a
competitive market. Regulatory assets recognized under SFAS 71, unrecovered
investment in power plants, commitments such as long-term purchased power
contracts and nuclear decommissioning costs are items that may become stranded
costs if prices for electric services are determined by the market rather than
based on the cost of providing that service.
 
     Virginia Power's potential exposure to stranded costs is comprised of
long-term purchased power contracts that may be above market, costs pertaining
to certain generating plants that may become uneconomic in a deregulated
environment and regulatory assets for items such as income tax benefits
previously flowed-through to customers, deferred losses on reacquired debt, and
other costs (see Note D to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders). In addition, unfunded obligations for
nuclear plant decommissioning and postretirement benefits not yet recognized in
the financial statements could contribute to Virginia Power's exposure to
potentially stranded costs (see
 
 

Notes A and N to the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders).
 
     Any forecast of potentially stranded costs is inextricably tied to the
assumptions made at the time of the analysis, including the timing of open
access (customer choice) in the market for electric service, the extent of open
access permitted, potential prices in the competitive market, sales and load
growth forecasts, future operating performance, rate revenues permitted during
the transition, cost structure over time, mitigation opportunities and stranded
cost recovery mechanisms. The calculation of potentially stranded costs is
extremely sensitive to the various assumptions made. Certain combinations of
these assumptions as applied to Virginia Power would produce little to no
stranded costs; under other scenarios Virginia Power's exposure to potentially
stranded costs could be substantial.
 
     Virginia Power is presently assessing the reasonableness of various
possible assumptions, but it has not been able to settle on any particular
combination thereof. Thus Virginia Power's maximum exposure to potentially
stranded costs is uncertain, as is the extent to which such costs, if any, will
be recoverable from customers. Virginia Power believes that recovery of such
costs, if any, is appropriate and will vigorously pursue the recovery of any
potentially stranded costs with the regulatory commissions having jurisdiction
over its operations and continue to implement cost-reduction measures in an
effort to mitigate the amount at risk.
 
     Presently, Virginia Power expects to continue to operate under regulation
and to recover its cost of providing traditional electric service. However, the
form of cost-based rate regulation under which Virginia Power operates is likely
to evolve as a result of various legislative or regulatory initiatives,
including Virginia Power's alternative regulatory plan filed with the Virginia
Commission on March 24, 1997.
 
     At this time, Virginia Power management can predict neither the ultimate
outcome of regulatory reform in the electric utility industry nor the impact
such changes would have on Virginia Power.
 
     Environmental Matters: Virginia Power is subject to rising costs resulting
from a steadily increasing number of federal, state and local laws and
regulations designed to protect human health and the environment. These laws and
regulations affect future planning and existing operations. They can result in
increased capital, operating and other costs as a result of compliance,
remediation, containment, and monitoring obligations of Virginia Power. These
costs have been historically recovered through the ratemaking process; however,
should material costs be incurred and not recovered through rates, Virginia
Power's results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
impacted.
 
     Virginia Power incurred expenses of $71.1 million, $68.3 million, and $67.3
million (including depreciation) during 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively, in
connection with the use of environmental protection facilities and expects these
expenses to be approximately $71.5 million in 1997. In addition, capital
expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances were $22.4 million, $23.4
million, and $47.3 million for 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. The amount
estimated for 1997 for these expenditures is $14.3 million.
 
     The Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, requires Virginia Power to reduce
its emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) and nitrogen oxides (NO(x)). Beginning
in 1995, the SO(2) reduction program is based on the issuance of a limited
number of SO(2) emission allowances, each of which may be used as a permit to
emit one ton of SO(2) into the atmosphere or may be sold to someone else. The
program is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

     Virginia Power has installed SO(2) control equipment on Unit 3 at Mt. Storm
Power Station. The SO(2) control equipment began operation on October 31, 1994.
The cost of this and related equipment was $147 million. Additional plans for
SO2 control involve switching to lower sulfur coal, purchase of emission
allowances and additional SO(2) controls. Maximum flexibility and least-cost
compliance will be maintained through annual studies. Virginia Power has
completed its compliance plan for NO(x) control, with the exception of some
additional studies concerning Phase II of the Clean Air Act, for which the EPA
issued final regulations in December 1996, and ozone control requirements, for
which regulations have not yet been promulgated.
 
     In 1996, Virginia Power installed NO(x) controls on Possum Point Unit 4 at
a cost of about $4 million, and at Mt. Storm Unit 3 at a cost of about $6
million. The utility plans to install additional NO(x) controls and modify
existing controls at Mt. Storm Units 1 and 2 in 1997, and to seek alternative
emission limitations from the EPA for all three Mt. Storm Units. The utility has
notified the EPA of its decision (called "early election") to begin complying
with Phase I NO(x) limits at ten of its units in Virginia in 1997, three years
earlier than otherwise required. As a result, the units will not be subject to
more stringent Phase II limits until 2008.

     In order to assist the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality in
maintaining good air quality in the Richmond and Hampton Roads regions, and to
avoid the necessity of more stringent regulations, Virginia Power made voluntary
commitments in 1996 to cap NO(x) emissions at its Chesterfield and Yorktown
Power Stations and the Chesapeake Energy Center beginning in 2000.

 

     Capital expenditures on Clear Air Act compliance over the next five years
are projected to be approximately $21 million. Changes in the regulatory
environment, availability of allowances, and emissions control technology could
substantially impact the timing and magnitude of compliance expenditures.
 
     The Clean Air Act amendments also require Virginia Power to obtain
operating permits for all major emissions-emitting facilities. Permit
applications have been submitted, and deemed complete by the regulatory
authorities, for the Mt. Storm and North Branch power stations. Applications for
the Virginia stations are expected to be filed within the next two years.
 
     Electromagnetic Fields: The possibility that exposure to electromagnetic
fields (EMFs) emanating from power lines, household appliances and other
electric sources may result in adverse health effects has been a subject of
increased public, governmental and media attention. A considerable amount of
scientific research has been conducted on this topic without definitive results.
Research is continuing to resolve scientific uncertainties. It is too soon to
tell what, if any, impact EMFs may have on the company's financial condition.

     Nuclear Operations: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) revised the
nuclear power plant license renewal rules issued in 1991. Virginia Power intends
to work with industry groups on license renewal programs, and to apply for
renewal of the current 40-year licenses.
 
Nonutility Issues
 
     Dominion Energy: Dominion Energy has evolved into a company that emphasizes
building businesses in the Americas with long-term earnings and value growth.
The key to this growth is the attainment of low cost production in geographical
areas where Dominion Energy has institutional experience and staff in place.
Dominion Energy will pursue this mission through its business lines of
independent power generation and natural gas and oil exploration, development
and operations.
 
     Dominion Energy's strategy with respect to power generation is to grow
through selective bidding opportunities and the expansion of existing assets.
The primary international markets of interest to Dominion Energy are South and
Central America. Dominion Energy has also established regional offices for
development in Argentina and Bolivia.
 
     Dominion Energy's strategy with respect to its natural gas and oil
businesses is to continue to grow its reserve base, either through drilling or
acquisition. In order to enhance the value in its oil and gas assets, Dominion
Energy will invest in pipeline, gathering and storage facilities where these
investments increase flexibility and market presence. Dominion Energy is also
exploring ways to add value by integrating its gas supply entities with its
power production units.
 
     Coincident with the growing economic opportunities are related risks. These
risks include limited currency fluctuations, developments in both domestic and
international economic conditions, and governmental and regulatory actions.
Internationally, Dominion Energy is managing these risks by limiting its
investments to more stable countries and by avoiding over-commitment to one
country. The financial performance of the natural gas operations depends to a
degree on the market price of natural gas which is influenced by many factors
outside the control of Dominion Energy. However, due to the advantageous cost
basis of its reserves and related tax credits, natural gas operations are
profitable at today's market prices. Much of Dominion Energy's gas reserves has
production-based tax credits. Consequently, future profitability could be
affected adversely by federal legislation which would remove the tax credit
prior to its current expiration in 2002.
 
     Dominion Capital: Dominion Capital has evolved from a company which
centered its earnings performance primarily on transactional activity to one
focused on obtaining earnings from ongoing operations. Dominion Capital's
strategy is to actively operate and manage a specialized financial services
business and to a lesser degree, continue its real estate activities. In
addition, Dominion Capital plans to continue to expand its flexibility by
achieving stand-alone taxpayer status and independent credit capacity.
 
     Dominion Capital is divided into three major strategic areas. They consist
of (1) financial services businesses, (2) core investments of Rincon Securities
and Vidalia Hydroelectric, and (3) real estate and passive investments.
 
     The financial services businesses, from which management expects continued
growth, focus on commercial lending to medium-sized companies, origination and
servicing of home mortgage and home equity loans to individuals, and a merchant
banking enterprise whose clients are small to medium sized oil and gas
producers. The primary risks characteristic of these businesses are credit,
interest rate, operation reserve, and market price of gas. The credit risk is
mitigated by diversification of client base, geographic and industry
concentrations. In addition, these companies are managed by experienced
management and underwriting professionals. The interest rate risk is managed by
floating rate loans, loan securitizations which transfer most of the risk to
investors, prepayment penalties and hedging programs for presecuritized loans.
The operation reserve risk is tempered by doing business with clients that have
management teams with proven track records and requiring quality third-party
reserve reports. The gas market price risk is hedged through a swap program that
establishes a price for reserves that supports the original loan underwritten.
 
 

     Rincon Securities and Vidalia Hydroelectric will be managed to optimize
profitability but will not offer growth opportunities. The real estate and
passive direct investments will be managed to harvest capital for reinvestment.
The critical risk to the real estate investments is the regional economy which
affects both the market price and the product's absorption rate.
 
  Corporate Issues
 
     In November 1996, Dominion Resources through its indirect United Kingdom
(U.K.) subsidiary DR Investments (UK) PLC, posted a formal offer document to the
shareholders of East Midlands Electricity plc (East Midlands) and as of March
14, 1997, all outstanding shares of East Midland's have been acquired. This
offer amounts to approximately $2.2 billion.

     East Midlands is a regional electricity company based in the Nottingham
area of England that serves about 2.3 million homes and businesses. It buys
electricity from the U.K. competitive pool and direct from generating companies
and supplies it to all smaller businesses and domestic customers in its
franchise area plus to larger business customers anywhere in the country on a
negotiated contract basis. This is a pattern which may be coming to the United
States as the push for more competition especially in the wholesale power market
sector of the electricity business intensifies. In addition, Dominion Resources
expects to gain valuable experience from the U.K. business in the area of direct
competition for individual consumers when deregulation comes to the U.K. in
1998.
 
     Risk associated with this business includes the fact that the distribution
business of East Midlands is regulated under a license pursuant to which revenue
of the distribution business is controlled by a distribution price control
formula established and reviewed by U.K. regulators. There can be no assurance
that any review by the U.K. regulators will not adversely affect East Midlands.
 
     Furthermore, the supply business in the U.K. is being progressively opened
to competition. Other factors that could adversely affect the business of East
Midlands are pool purchase price volatility (East Midlands obtains the
electricity it sells under fixed price contracts by purchases from wholesale
trading markets in the U.K.) and changes in U.K. governmental policies,
including the possible introduction of a one-time tax on excess profits of
privatized utilities. East Midlands expects to continue to effectively compete
in the U.K. supply business, utilizing elaborate hedging programs to manage
purchase price volatility risk.
 
  Other Risk Factors and Risk Management Matters
 
     In 1996 and January 1997, Dominion Resources instituted and implemented
risk management policies involving derivative transactions at the corporate,
nonutility and utility levels. In 1997, Dominion Resources will continue to use
derivative financial instruments for prudent risk management. For more
information on derivative transactions (see Notes A and P to the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders).
 
     As Dominion Resources continues to expand its operations in competitive
power supply markets, the possibility of challenges by contractual purchasers of
power exists. There could be a significant impact on the results of operations
of Dominion Resources if any of the contracts were to be successfully challenged
resulting in unfavorable modifications. Management continues to evaluate its
significant power contracts and has concluded that the terms are binding and
enforceable.
 
 

                    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                       CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
                                  (Unaudited)
 
Consolidated
 
  Financing Activity
 
     Each of Dominion Resources' subsidiaries -- Virginia Power, Dominion
Energy, and Dominion Capital -- obtains capital primarily through cash from
operations, debt financings and equity contributed by the parent. The utility
and nonutility companies obtain financing based on their individual credit
profiles and ability to repay the debt; in no way are the other companies
contingently liable for each other's indebtedness.
 
  Commercial Paper
 
     To finance working capital for operations, proceeds from the sale of
Dominion Resources commercial paper in regional and national markets are made
available to its nonutility subsidiaries under the terms of intercompany credit
agreements. To support these borrowings, Dominion Resources had available bank
lines of credit totaling $400.8 million at the end of 1996. Amounts borrowed by
the subsidiaries are repaid to Dominion Resources through cash flows from
operations and through proceeds from permanent financings.
 
     Virginia Power has a commercial paper program with a limit of $500 million.
The program is supported by $500 million of revolving credit facilities and is
used primarily to finance working capital for operations.
 
  Common Equity
 
     Dominion Resources made no underwritten public offerings of common stock in
1996, but did raise capital from sales of common stock through the Automatic
Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, Customer Stock Purchase Plan,
Dominion Direct Investment plan, and Employee Savings Plan. On July 8, 1996,
Dominion Resources established the Dominion Direct Investment plan. The Dominion
Direct Investment Plan continues and expands the Automatic Dividend Reinvestment
and Stock Purchase Plan. Dominion Resources will continue to raise capital
through Dominion Direct Investment and the Employee Savings plans in 1997.
Proceeds from these plans were (in millions): 1996-$164.2; 1995-$136.9; and
1994-$166. Reflected in the amounts of proceeds from these plans were the
repurchases of 136,800 shares of common stock in 1996 for an aggregate price of
$5.5 million, 685,500 shares of common stock in 1995 for an aggregate price of
$24.8 million, and 566,000 shares in 1994 for an aggregate price of $20.7
million. In 1997, Dominion Resources expects to make an underwritten public
offering of common stock in the amount of approximately $300 million to finance
the purchase of East Midlands.
 
Virginia Power
 
  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
     Cash flow from operating activities has accounted for, on average, 75% of
Virginia Power's cash requirements over the past three years.
 
     With the completion of the 882 Mw coal-fired power station near Clover,
Virginia, Virginia Power is in a period in which internal cash generation will
exceed construction expenditures. The internal generation of cash in 1996, 1995
and 1994 provided 143%, 119% and 88%, respectively, of the funds required for
Virginia Power's capital requirements.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $10.1 million in 1996
as compared to 1995, primarily as a result of normal operations.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $107.1 million in
1995 as compared to 1994, primarily as a result of increased sales, partially
offset by a number of other factors resulting from normal operations.
 
 

     Cash from (used in) financing activities was as follows:
 

 
     In 1996, Virginia Power issued $24.5 million of variable rate solid waste
disposal securities to refund $24.5 million of securities assumed in its
acquisition of the North Branch Power Station. Also in 1996, Virginia Power
retired a total of $259.6 million of Medium-Term Notes through mandatory
maturities.
 
     In June 1996, Virginia Power increased the limit for its commercial paper
program from $300 million to $500 million with the execution of $500 million of
revolving credit facilities, which replaced existing liquidity support. Proceeds
from the sale of commercial paper are primarily used to finance working capital
for operations. Net borrowings under the commercial paper program were $312.4
million at December 31, 1996.
 
     In January 1997, Virginia Power filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for $400 million of Junior Subordinated
Debentures. At December 31, 1996, Virginia Power had two additional shelf
registration statements for debt securities registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, one for $575 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds
and the other for $200 million of Medium-Term Notes, Series F. In February 1997,
Virginia Power issued $200 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, the
proceeds of which were primarily used to refund a portion of Virginia Power's
debt that matured in February and March of 1997. These three shelf registrations
combine to provide Virginia Power with $975 million of unused debt capital
resources. In addition, Virginia Power has a Preferred Stock shelf, registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, for $100 million in aggregate
principal amount, which has not been utilized. Virginia Power intends to issue
securities from time to time to meet its capital requirements.
 
     Cash (used in) investing activities was as follows:
 

 
     Investing activities in 1996 resulted in a net cash outflow of $546.4
million primarily due to $393.8 million of construction expenditures and $90.2
million of nuclear fuel expenditures. The construction expenditures included
approximately $78.6 million for production projects, $244.6 million for
transmission and distribution projects, and $17.1 million on new generating
facilities.
 
  Capital Requirements
 
     Virginia Power presently anticipates that kilowatt-hour sales will grow
approximately 2.4 percent a year through 2011. Both the Hoosier 400 Mw long-term
purchase and the AEP 500 Mw long-term purchase agreements will expire on
December 31, 1999. With the scheduled termination of 900 Mw of long-term
purchases and continued system growth, Virginia Power presently anticipates
adding 1,200 Mw of short-term (three-year) purchases beginning in 2000. Virginia
Power has and will pursue capacity acquisition plans to provide that capacity
and maintain a high degree of service reliability. This capacity may be owned
and operated by others and sold to Virginia Power or may be built by Virginia
Power if it determines it can build capacity at a lower overall cost.
 
     Clover Unit 2, which is part of a two-unit facility jointly owned with
ODEC, began commercial operation in March 1996. Virginia Power's fifty percent
ownership share of the cost of construction was completed at a cost of $235
million.
 
     Virginia Power will require $311.3 million to meet long-term debt
maturities in 1997. Virginia Power presently estimates that all of its 1997
construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel expenditures, will be met
through cash flow from
 


operations. Other capital requirements will be met through a combination of
sales of securities including the sale of $200 million of First and Refunding
Mortgage Bonds issued in February 1997 and short-term borrowings.
 
Dominion Energy
 
  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
     Dominion Energy funds its capital requirements through operations, equity
contributions by Dominion Resources, an intercompany credit agreement with
Dominion Resources and bank revolving credit agreements.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $52.1 million in
1996, as compared to 1995, primarily due to cash generated by operations of
acquired companies and assets and from normal operations.
 
     Cash from (used in) financing activities was as follows:
 

 
     In 1996, cash flows from financing activities of $274.2 million, resulted
from long-term debt financing and equity contributions from Dominion Resources.
The additional debt and equity requirements were used primarily for the
acquisition of oil and gas properties and an interest in EGENOR.
 
     In 1995, cash flows from financing activities of $87.1 million resulted
from the $149.3 million of equity contributions from Dominion Resources which
was used to retire long-term debt of approximately $72.5 million and fund the
acquisition of Corani.
 
     In 1994, cash flows used in financing activities decreased by $97 million,
resulting from the repayment of short-term and intercompany debt. Proceeds from
the sale of the Black Warrior Trust Units which amounted to $128.4 million were
used to fund the repayments.
 
     Cash from (used in) investing activities was as follows:
 

 
     Net cash flows used in investing activities in 1996 of $354 million were
used primarily to fund the acquisition of oil and gas properties and an interest
in EGENOR.
 
     In 1995, net cash flows used in investing activities of $136.2 million were
primarily for the acquisitions of Corani and oil and gas properties.
 
     In 1994, net cash flows from investing activities increased, primarily due
to the gain on the sale of the Black Warrior Trust Units offset by the purchase
of oil and natural gas properties.
 
  Capital Requirements
 
     Capital requirements for Dominion Energy in 1997 are forecasted to be
approximately $375 million. These requirements consist of: oil and gas
expenditures of $115 million. Power generation will have capital expenditures of
$260 million (including the Kincaid acquisition).
 
     Sources for these capital requirements will be: nonrecourse debt, cash
flows from operations, equity from Dominion Resources and, if necessary,
borrowings from the revolving credit facility.
 
     It should be noted that amounts enumerated above are estimates;
consequently, actual amounts may differ.
 
 

Dominion Capital
 
  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
     Dominion Capital funds its capital requirements through operations,
intercompany credit agreement with Dominion Resources, equity contributions from
Dominion Resources, a medium-term note facility, bank revolving credit
agreements, term loans and a commercial paper program.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $179.1 million in
1996 as compared to 1995, primarily as a result of the funding of mortgage loans
prior to the securitization of such loans in its financial services business.
 
     Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $49.3 million in
1995 as compared to 1994, primarily due to a number of factors resulting from
normal operations.
 
     Cash from (used in) financing activities was as follows:
 

 
     In 1996, cash flows from financing activities increased to $185.8 million,
primarily due to the following transactions. Dominion Capital received seller
financing of $47.5 million from Resource Mortgage Capital when it purchased
Saxon Mortgage. Intercompany debt which is available through Dominion Capital's
intercompany credit agreement with Dominion Resources, increased by $79.6
million. The proceeds were used to fund capital requirements not covered by
proceeds from operations or debt, including the initial cash payment of the
Saxon Mortgage acquisition, and medium term note maturities of $38.5 million.
During the year, Senior Notes of $46 million were refinanced with similar debt.
 
     In 1995, cash flows from financing activities increased to $45.3 million
due to an equity infusion of $150 million from Dominion Resources. The proceeds
were used to invest in First Source Financial. The remaining proceeds from the
equity infusion were used to pay down intercompany and long-term debt.
 
     In 1994, cash flows from financing activities increased to $48.7 million
due to borrowings from the intercompany credit agreement. The proceeds from the
borrowings were used to pay dividends and reduce long-term debt.
 
     Cash from (used in) investing activities was as follows:
 

 
     Net cash flows used in investing activities in 1996 resulted from the
acquisition of Saxon Mortgage, the residual interest in mortgage loans
securitized relating to Saxon Mortgage and equity investments in Cambrian
Capital (Cambrian), a merchant banking enterprise for emerging independent oil
and natural gas producers. Net cash flows used in investing activities in 1995
resulted primarily from its investment in First Source Financial. Investing
activities in 1994 resulted in a net cash outflow of $32.5 million as a result
of venture capital and other investments.
 
  Capital Requirements
 
     Dominion Capital's principal focus is growing its financial services
companies. First Source Financial will increase its loan portfolio from $650
million to approximately $954 million in 1997. Saxon Mortgage plans to generate
almost $2 billion in loan originations primarily in the sub-prime credit arena
during 1997. Cambrian will expand its loan portfolio to approximately $100
million in 1997. To finance these expansion plans in 1997, Dominion Capital
plans to utilize approximately $160 million in new equity and intercompany debt.
The remaining capital requirements will come from the reinvestment of cash from
operations, harvesting capital from existing real estate and other assets, and
various third party credit sources. Dominion Capital anticipates dividend
payments to Dominion Resources of approximately $31 million.
 


              ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS


   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial
                                  Statements.



                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial
                                  Statements.
 


                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 


- ---------------

* As described in Note L, the 8.05% Junior Subordinated Notes totaling $139.2
  million principal amount constitute 100% of the Trust's assets.

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial
                                  Statements.



                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial
                                  Statements.



     The NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages 36 through 50 and
related report of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors, appearing on page
52 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, for the fiscal year ended December
31, 1996, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by
reference.

    ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                                     None.

                                    PART III

          ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding the Directors of Dominion Resources contained on
pages 2 through 4 of the 1997 Proxy Statement, File No. 1-8489, dated March 7,
1997 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. The information concerning the
executive officers of Dominion Resources required by this Item is incorporated
by reference to the section in Part I hereof entitled "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT."

                        ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information regarding executive and director compensation contained on
pages 10 through 17 of the 1997 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated herein by
reference.

    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information concerning stock ownership by directors and executive
officers contained on page 5 of the 1997 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated
herein by reference. There is no person known by Dominion Resources to be the
beneficial owner of more than five percent of Dominion Resources common stock.

            ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                      None
 
 

                                    PART IV
 
   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     A. Certain documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference or found on the pages noted.
 
1. Financial Statements
 

 
2. Exhibits
 

 
 


 
 


 
 


 
- ---------------
 
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
B. Reports on Form 8-K
 
     Dominion Resources filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 23, 1997,
reporting the acquisition, through a newly created United Kingdom subsidiary, of
East Midlands Electricity plc, a regional electricity company based in the
United Kingdom.
 
     Dominion Resources filed an amendment to the above Form 8-K, dated January
23, 1997, on March 20, 1997 (Form 8-K/A), reporting the financial statements and
pro forma financial information for the acquisition of East Midlands Electricity
plc in the United Kingdom.
 
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                                         By:            THOS. E. CAPPS
                                           ------------------------------------
                                             (Thos. E. Capps, Chairman of the
                                                     Board of Directors,
                                               President and Chief Executive
                                                          Officer)

Date: MARCH 24, 1997

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the 24th day of March, 1997.

         Signature                            Title
         ---------                            -----

       JOHN B. ADAMS, JR.                 Director
- ---------------------------------------
       John B. Adams, Jr.

       JOHN B. BERNHARDT                  Director
- ---------------------------------------
       John B. Bernhardt

       THOS. E. CAPPS                     Chairman of the Board of Directors,
- ---------------------------------------   President (Chief Executive Officer)
       Thos. E. Capps                     and Director

    BENJAMIN J. LAMBERT, III              Director
- ---------------------------------------
    Benjamin J. Lambert, III

     RICHARD L. LEATHERWOOD               Director
- ---------------------------------------
     Richard L. Leatherwood

     HARVEY L. LINDSAY, JR.               Director
- ---------------------------------------
     Harvey L. Lindsay, Jr.

         K. A. RANDALL                    Director
- ---------------------------------------
         K. A. Randall

        WILLIAM T. ROOS                   Director
- ---------------------------------------
        William T. Roos

         FRANK S. ROYAL                   Director
- ---------------------------------------
         Frank S. Royal

         JUDITH B. SACK                   Director
- ---------------------------------------
     Judith B. Sack





         Signature                            Title
         ---------                            -----

       S. DALLAS SIMMONS                  Director
- ---------------------------------------
       S. Dallas Simmons

                                          Director
- ---------------------------------------
      Robert H. Spilman

     LINWOOD R. ROBERTSON                 Executive Vice President
- ---------------------------------------   (Chief Financial Officer)
    Linwood R. Robertson

       J. L. TRUEHEART                    Vice President and Controller
- ---------------------------------------   (Principal Accounting Officer)
       J. L. Trueheart





                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                                    PORTIONS
                                     OF THE
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                       TO
                                  SHAREHOLDERS
                          (Incorporated by Reference)




