
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K405




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
   OF 1934

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                       OR

[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934

  For the transition period from           to

                         Commission File Number 1-8489

                                ----------------

                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Virginia                               54-1229715
                                       (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
    (State or other jurisdictionof
    incorporation or organization)

         120 Tredegar Street                             23219
          Richmond, Virginia
   (Address of principal executive                    (Zip Code)
               offices)

                                 (804) 819-2000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                                ----------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

                                ----------------

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was over $16.0 billion based on the closing price of our Common
Stock on March 2, 2001, as reported on the composite tape by the Wall Street
Journal.
   Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each registrant's class of
common stock, as of the latest practicable date.



                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.

(a) Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
    ended December 31, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV
    hereof.

(b) Portions of the 2001 Proxy Statement, dated March 16, 2001, are
    incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.





                                     PART I

                                ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                                  THE COMPANY

   Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion or the Company) is a fully integrated gas
and electric holding company headquartered in Richmond, Virginia. Our principal
assets are located in the Northeast quadrant of the United States, which is an
area we call MAIN to Maine. In the power industry, "MAIN" means the Middle
American Interconnected Network, which comprises the states of Missouri,
Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan and Indiana. The MAIN to Maine region is home to
approximately 40% of the nation's demand for energy. It also has some of the
nation's highest energy prices and, as a result, is rapidly moving toward
industry deregulation and restructuring. Our acquisition of Consolidated
Natural Gas Company (CNG), completed in early 2000, substantially increased our
concentration of assets and customers in this region.

   As a result of our acquisition of CNG, Dominion is a registered public
utility holding company subject to the provisions of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 (the 1935 Act). CNG also continues to be a registered
holding company under the 1935 Act.

   With the acquisition of CNG, Dominion began managing its business through
three principal segments that integrate its electric and gas services,
streamline operations, and position Dominion for long-term growth in the
competitive marketplace.

  . Dominion Energy--Dominion Energy manages our 19,000-megawatt generation
    portfolio, our 7,600 miles of gas transmission pipeline, and a 959
    billion cubic foot natural gas storage network. It also guides our
    generation growth strategy and our commodity trading, marketing, and risk
    management activities. We currently operate generation facilities in
    Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina and Illinois. Dominion Energy
    will also include the 1,954-megawatt Millstone Nuclear Power Station,
    which we expect to acquire this year.

  . Dominion Delivery--Dominion Delivery manages our local electric and gas
    distribution systems serving nearly 3.8 million customers, our 6,000
    miles of electric transmission lines and our customer service operations.
    We currently operate transmission and distribution systems in Virginia,
    West Virginia, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Ohio. Dominion Delivery
    also includes our interest in Dominion Telecom with its 3,600 route-mile
    fiber optic network and related telecommunications and advanced data
    services.

  . Dominion Exploration & Production--Dominion Exploration & Production
    (Dominion E&P) manages our onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration
    and production activities. With approximately 2.8 trillion cubic feet of
    natural gas equivalent reserves and an annual production capacity
    exceeding 300 billion cubic feet, Dominion E&P is one of the nation's
    largest independent oil and gas operators. We operate on the outer
    continental shelf and deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico, western
    Canada, the Appalachian Basin and other selected regions in the
    continental United States.

While Dominion manages its daily operations as described above, its assets
remain wholly-owned by its legal subsidiaries, which are described below in
Legal Structure and Principal Legal Subsidiaries. For additional financial
information on business segments, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 68 of the 2000 Annual Report.

Legal Structure and Principal Legal Subsidiaries

   Dominion was incorporated in 1983 as a Virginia corporation. Dominion and
its subsidiaries had approximately 15,600 full-time employees as of December
31, 2000. Our principal office is located at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond,
Virginia 23219, telephone (804) 819-2000. Dominion's principal direct legal



subsidiaries are Virginia Electric and Power Company (Virginia Power) a
regulated public utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution
and sale of electric energy in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina and
Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), a producer, transporter, distributor
and retail marketer of natural gas, serving customers in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Virginia, West Virginia, New York and other cities focused in the Northeast and
Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. Our other major subsidiaries are
Dominion Energy, Inc. (DEI), Dominion's independent power and natural gas
subsidiary, and Dominion Capital, Inc. (DCI), our diversified financial
services company.

   Our legal structure is not currently the same as the operating segments we
use to manage our business. The functional separation of Virginia Power's
regulated and unregulated businesses described elsewhere in this report may,
with regulatory approval, provide us with the opportunity to realign our legal
structure with our operating segments.

Organizational Changes

   On January 28, 2000, Dominion completed its acquisition of CNG. The
combination with CNG, based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, creates a fully
integrated electric and natural gas utility in the Midwest, Northeast and Mid-
Atlantic regions of the United States.

   As a result of the acquisition of CNG, we became a registered public utility
holding company under the 1935 Act. The 1935 Act imposes a number of
restrictions on the operations of registered holding company systems, one of
which limits our ability to engage in activities unrelated to our utility
operations or other energy related businesses. As part of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) order approving the acquisition under the 1935 Act,
Dominion must divest itself of DCI within three years. During the approval
process, Dominion and CNG also agreed to divest Virginia Natural Gas, Inc.
(VNG), CNG's gas distribution subsidiary located in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
In October 2000, Dominion completed the sale of VNG to AGL Resources Inc.

   As we build our geographically focused business, we are also divesting our
assets outside of the targeted MAIN to Maine region. We have divested all of
our Latin American assets, including the Argentine assets of CNG. We completed
our exit from the United Kingdom during 2000 with the sale of our 80% interest
in the Corby Power Station, and we are actively exploring the sale of CNG's
remaining international operations in Australia.

   As part of the acquisition of CNG, Dominion created a subsidiary service
company, Dominion Resources Services, Inc. (Services), which provides certain
services to Dominion's operating subsidiaries. During 2000, CNG also had a
service company, CNG Services, Inc. Effective January 1, 2001, the two service
companies were combined into one service company.

   For additional information regarding the acquisition of CNG and our exit
strategy for certain DCI businesses, see Notes 5 and 6 to Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 46 through 49 of the 2000 Annual Report.

                                  COMPETITION

   Our Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery segments are each affected by the
increasing momentum towards deregulation in both the electric and gas
industries. In addition to the restructuring of the gas industry, the emerging
unbundling of services provided by electric utilities is leading toward the
convergence of the two industries to create one overall, highly competitive
marketplace for a customer's total energy needs.

Electric Industry

   The structure of the electric industry in our service territory and
throughout the United States has been relatively stable for many years.
Recently, however, there have been both federal and state developments in



restructuring regulation and increasing competition. Electric utilities are
required to open up their transmission systems for non-discriminatory use by
wholesale competitors. In addition, non-utility power marketers now compete
with electric utilities in the wholesale generation market. Although progress
varies, pro-competition electric legislation is under consideration in many
states. In Virginia, legislation was passed in 1999 which will phase in
customer choice between 2002 and 2004. In Ohio, legislation was enacted in 1999
which allowed consumers to choose their electric supplier beginning January 1,
2001. In Pennsylvania, all consumers may now choose their electric supplier.
Regulators and legislators in West Virginia and North Carolina are also
debating issues related to electric industry restructuring.

   Because competition has not yet been fully phased-in and electric services
have not been unbundled in Virginia, competition issues affect both our
Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery segments as a whole and do not lend
themselves to discussion on a segment basis. The following discussion relates
to competition as it affects our electricity operations in Virginia and North
Carolina.

   Historically, our electric utility subsidiary has had the exclusive right to
provide electricity at retail within its assigned service territories in
Virginia and North Carolina. As a result, our Company's exposure to competition
for retail electric sales was limited to the extent our customers moved into
another utility service territory, used other energy sources instead of
electric power, or generated their own electricity. However, during 1998 and
1999, legislation was passed in Virginia that established plans to restructure
Virginia's electric utility industry and provided for a phased-in transition to
a fully competitive retail electric market during the period January 1, 2002
through January 1, 2004 (deregulation legislation). Complying with this
deregulation legislation, we established a retail choice pilot program that is
currently in place for sales of electricity within our Virginia service
territory.

   We continue to participate actively in both the legislative and regulatory
processes relating to industry restructuring in an effort to ensure an orderly
transition from a regulated environment. We have also responded to the trends
toward competition by cutting costs, re-engineering our core business
processes, and pursuing innovative approaches to serving traditional and future
markets. In addition, we are developing certain "non-traditional" products and
services in an effort to provide growth in future earnings.

   See Deregulation Legislation--Electric Industry under Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)
on page 35 of the 2000 Annual Report.

Gas Industry

 Dominion Delivery

   Dominion has taken steps to offer choices to its gas customers in
Pennsylvania. As early as 1984, large industrial customers in Pennsylvania
began to buy natural gas supplies from third parties, rather than directly from
local utilities; the local distributors transported these third-party gas
supplies to the industrial facilities. Since that time, nearly all of our
Pennsylvania industrial and large commercial customers have changed from being
utility sales customers to transportation services customers, buying the
natural gas commodity from unregulated suppliers and transporting it on our gas
delivery network. In 1997, Dominion's Pennsylvania gas utility subsidiary
voluntarily launched an Energy Choice program for all of its retail consumers
in Pennsylvania--whether industrial, commercial, or residential. Subsequently,
in 1999, Pennsylvania enacted legislation to mandate supplier choice for
residential and small commercial customers. At December 31, 2000, approximately
106,000 customers had opted for Energy Choice in our Company's Pennsylvania
service area.

   Large industrial customers in Ohio began to source their own natural gas
supplies in the mid-1980's, as interstate pipeline transportation services
became more widely available. However, to date, Ohio has not enacted
legislation to require supplier choice for residential and commercial natural
gas consumers. Dominion has made significant progress in offering Energy Choice
to customers on its own initiative, in cooperation with The Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio. In 1997, Dominion's Ohio gas utility subsidiary launched a
pilot



program, designed to make gas transportation service available to residential
and small commercial customers, and to the suppliers that market gas to these
customer classes. In 2000, the Energy Choice program was expanded to all 1.2
million customers in Dominion's Ohio service area. At December 31, 2000,
approximately 175,000 of Dominion's Ohio customers were participating in this
open-access program.

   At this time, West Virginia has not enacted legislation to require customer
choice in its retail natural gas markets. In this smaller, more rural market
area, Dominion has not voluntarily initiated an Energy Choice program. However,
the West Virginia Public Service Commission recently issued regulations to
govern pooling services; these services are one of the tools that natural gas
suppliers may utilize to provide retail customer choice in the future.

 Dominion Energy

   Dominion has taken advantage of selected market expansion opportunities,
concentrating its efforts primarily in the Northeast and along the East Coast.
Dominion's large underground storage capacity and the location of its gridlike
pipeline system as a link between the country's major gas pipelines and large
markets on the East Coast have been key factors in the success of these
expansion efforts. The Company's pipelines are part of an interconnected gas
transmission system which will continue to enable retail end users to take
advantage of the accessibility of supplies nationwide as gas utilities unbundle
services at the retail level.

   Dominion competes with domestic as well as Canadian pipeline companies and
gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other
services for customers. Also, certain end users have the ability to switch to
fuel oil or coal if desired. Although competition is based primarily on price,
the array of services that can be provided to customers is also an important
factor. The combination of capacity rights held on certain longline pipelines,
a large storage capability and the availability of numerous receipt and
delivery points along its own pipeline system enables Dominion to tailor its
services to meet the individual needs of customers.

 Dominion Exploration & Production

   Exploration and production operations are conducted by the Company in
several major gas and oil producing basins in the United States, both onshore
and offshore, and Canada. In this highly competitive business, the Company
competes with a large number of entities ranging in size from large
international oil companies with extensive financial resources to small, cash
flow driven independent producers.

   Dominion faces significant competition in the bidding for federal offshore
leases and in obtaining leases and drilling rights for onshore properties.
Since Dominion is the operator of a number of properties, it also faces
competition in securing drilling equipment and supplies for exploration and
development.

   From the production perspective, the marketing of gas and oil is highly
competitive with price being the most significant factor. Gas producers
throughout the industry, including Dominion, face a diverse and active market
with purchasers seeking to balance the advantage of flexible spot market
supplies with the security of longer-term contracts. The growth of gas and
energy marketing firms has added to the competition for Dominion. When the
economics warrant, the Company attempts to sell its gas production under long-
term contracts to customers such as electric power generators and others that
require a secure source of supply. However, these arrangements represent only a
portion of the Company's gas production. Further, the deliverability of gas
produced is influenced by competition for downstream pipeline transportation
capacity. The Company continues to develop marketing strategies, contracts and
arrangements to address customer needs for intermediate and long-term gas
supplies as well as swing, peaking and other energy services. In addition, in
the ordinary course of business, Dominion participates in price risk management
activities to manage exposure to price risk in connection with the production
and sale of natural gas and oil.



                                   REGULATION

General

   Many aspects of our business are presently subject to regulation by the SEC,
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
(NRC), the Army Corps of Engineers, and other federal, state and local
authorities.

   The Virginia State Corporation Commission (Virginia Commission) and the
North Carolina Utilities Commission (the North Carolina Commission) regulate
our bundled rates for retail electric sales in those states and FERC approves
our rates for electric sales to wholesale customers. While our electric utility
subsidiary holds certificates of public convenience and necessity authorizing
it to construct and operate its electric facilities now in operation and to
sell electricity to customers, it may not construct or incur financial
commitments for construction of any substantial generating facilities or large
capacity transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and
federal government agencies.

   As discussed above in COMPETITION--Electric Industry, deregulation
legislation has been enacted in Virginia. Under the deregulation legislation,
Dominion's electric utility subsidiary is required to join or establish a
regional transmission entity, establish a retail access pilot program and
submit to the Virginia Commission a plan for separating its generation and and
delivery operations.

   Certain subsidiaries of CNG are subject to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as
amended. Our interstate gas transportation and storage activities are regulated
under such Act and are conducted in accordance with certificates, tariffs and
service agreements on file with FERC. Other CNG subsidiaries are subject to
various provisions of the five statutes that are referred to as the National
Energy Act of 1978. One of these statutes, the National Energy Conservation
Policy Act, requires utilities to offer home energy audits and other assistance
to residential customers.

   We are also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, which
authorizes the establishment and enforcement of federal pipeline safety
standards and places jurisdiction of these standards with the Department of
Transportation. Intrastate facilities remain within the safety jurisdiction of
the state regulatory agencies, presuming compliance by such agencies with
certain prerequisites contained in such Act.

   Our gas distribution business subsidiaries are subject to regulation of
rates and other aspects of their businesses by the states in which they
operate -- Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia. In 1999, Pennsylvania enacted
legislation which mandates supplier choice for residential and small commercial
customers. For additional information on deregulation in the gas industry, see
COMPETITION--Gas Industry.

   The following sections discuss various regulatory proceedings in which the
Company is or has recently been involved. See COMPETITION and RATES for
information on additional proceedings.

Separation of Electric Generation and Delivery Operations in Virginia

   In October 2000, the Virginia Commission issued its Final Order outlining
regulations governing the functional separation of incumbent electric
utilities' generation, transmission and distribution services. The Order
adopted rules for how Virginia's existing monopoly electric utilities should
organize themselves to participate in the competitive energy supply market,
which begins a phase-in in 2002. The rules govern how utilities can divide
themselves so that their generating plants can participate in the competitive
market without raising anti-competitive and other concerns. State law requires
the utilities to separate their various functions by January 1, 2002.

   In November 2000, as required by electric deregulation legislation, the
Company's electric subsidiary filed with the Virginia Commission an application
for approval of a functional separation plan for its regulated utility
operations. The plan provides in part for the following:

  . transfer of generation assets into a separate legal entity, Dominion
    Generation Corporation;



  . transfer of rights and obligations under non-utility power purchase
    contracts to Dominion Generation Corporation;

  . retention of transmission and distribution assets and operations by
    Virginia Power, to be known as Dominion Virginia Power;

  . Dominion Generation Corporation to supply Dominion Virginia Power with
    electric power during and after the capped rate period under a power
    purchase agreement to ensure that adequate capacity and energy is
    available to meet Dominion Virginia Power's capped rate service and
    default supply obligations;

  . planned allocation between Dominion Virginia Power and Dominion
    Generation Corporation of payment responsibility for existing Virginia
    Power debt with the objective that ratings on outstanding debt will
    remain unchanged.

   For additional details on functional separation, see Electric and Gas
Industry Issues--Separation of Electric Generation and Delivery Operations in
Virginia under MD&A on page 36 of the 2000 Annual Report.

Regional Transmission Entities/Regional Transmission Organizations

   Deregulation legislation requires that Virginia's incumbent electric
utilities join or establish regional transmission entities (RTE) by January 1,
2001, and seek authorization from the Virginia Commission to transfer ownership
or operational control of their transmission facilities to such RTEs. In July
2000, the Virginia Commission issued regulations governing the transfer of
ownership or control of electric transmission assets to RTE. In October 2000,
Dominion's electric utility subsidiary filed an application with the Virginia
Commission seeking authorization to transfer control of its electric
transmission facilities to the Alliance Regional Transmission Organization
(Alliance RTO). As discussed below, the formation of the Alliance RTO began in
connection with FERC initiatives, and Dominion expects the RTO to satisfy the
requirements to establish the RTE under Virginia legislation.

   In February 2000, FERC finalized regulations (Order No. 2000) to advance the
formation of Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO). The regulations require
that each public utility that owns, operates, or controls facilities for the
transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce make certain filings
with respect to forming and participating in an RTO. Dominion, together with
American Electric Power (AEP), Consumers Energy Company, The Detroit Edison
Company and First Energy Corporation, on behalf of themselves and their public
utility operating company subsidiaries (Alliance Companies), filed with FERC
applications under Sections 205 and 203 of the Federal Power Act for approval
of the proposed Alliance RTO. FERC approved most aspects of the RTO in January
2001. Dayton Power and Light Company, Commonwealth Edison Company, Commonwealth
Edison Company of Indiana, Illinois Power Company, Ameren UE and Ameren CIPS
have subsequently requested authority to join the Alliance RTO.

Retail Access Pilot Program

   In 1998, the Virginia Commission issued an Order instructing the Company's
electric utility subsidiary and American Electric Power-Virginia, a subsidiary
of AEP, as Virginia's two largest investor-owned utilities, each to design and
file a retail access pilot program relating to electric distribution in
Virginia. In 2000, the Virginia Commission approved our retail access pilot
program and issued a final order on the interim rules governing pilot programs.
Our pilot program, Project Current Choice, began in September 2000. As of the
end of December 2000, over 81,000 customers have volunteered for the pilot
program and over 20,000 have switched to a competitive service provider. In
January 2001, the Virginia Commission established a proceeding to determine the
permanent rules for retail access.

Wholesale Markets

   Dominion's electric utility subsidiary sells electricity in the wholesale
market under its market based-sales tariff authorized by FERC but has agreed
not to make wholesale power sales under this tariff to loads located



within its service territory. During 2000, our electric utility subsidiary
filed applications with FERC to make sales under its market-based sales tariff
to loads within its service territory participating in its retail access pilot
program and to amend its open access transmission tariff to accommodate the
Virginia retail access pilot program. FERC has accepted both applications.
Until authorization is granted by FERC, any sales of wholesale power to loads
located within our electric service territory, other than sales to loads
participating in the electric retail access pilot program, are to be at cost-
based rates accepted by FERC.

   Dominion's sales of oil and natural gas in wholesale markets are not
regulated by FERC. The deregulation of gas sales began through a multi-year
schedule established under the Natural Gas Policy Act (NGPA) of 1978 and was
completed under the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989.

Environmental Matters

   Each segment of our business faces substantial regulation and compliance
costs with respect to environmental matters. For discussion of significant
aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures
relating to environmental compliance, see Electric and Gas Industry Issues--
Environmental Matters, Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures,
Clean Air Act Compliance, and Global Climate Change under MD&A on pages 37 and
38 of the 2000 Annual Report.

   From time to time we may be identified as a potentially responsible party
with respect to a superfund site. The EPA (or a state) can either (a) allow
such a party to conduct and pay for a remedial investigation, feasibility study
and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial investigation and action and
then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each party can be held jointly,
severally and strictly liable for all costs, but the parties can then bring
contribution actions against each other and seek reimbursement from their
insurance companies. As a result, we may be responsible for the costs of
remedial investigation and actions under the Superfund Act or other laws or
regulations regarding the remediation of waste. We do not believe that any
currently identified sites will result in significant liabilities.

   The Company has determined that it is associated with 20 former manufactured
gas plant sites, eight of which are currently owned by subsidiaries. Studies
conducted by other utilities at their former manufactured gas plants have
indicated that their sites contain coal tar and other potentially harmful
materials. None of the 20 former sites with which the Company is associated is
under investigation by any state or federal environmental agency, and no
investigation or action is currently anticipated. At this time it is not known
if, or to what degree, these sites may contain environmental contamination.
Therefore, the Company is not able to estimate the cost, if any, that may be
required for the possible remediation of these sites.

   In accordance with applicable Federal and state environmental laws, we have
applied for or obtained the necessary environmental permits material to the
operation of our electric generating stations. Many of these permits are
subject to re-issuance and continuing review.

   For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Item 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS on page 20 and Electric and Gas Industry Issues--
Environmental Matters under MD&A on page 37 and Note 22 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 60 of the 2000 Annual Report.

Nuclear Generation

   All aspects of the operation and maintenance of our nuclear power stations,
which are a part of our Dominion Energy segment, are regulated by the NRC.
Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to revocation, suspension or
modification, and operation of a nuclear unit may be suspended if the NRC
determines that the public interest, health or safety so requires.

   From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and
maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations require
changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear
facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result
in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining our nuclear
generating units.



   One of the issues associated with the operation and decommissioning of
nuclear facilities is disposal of spent nuclear fuel (SNF). The Nuclear Waste
Policy Act of 1982 required the federal government to make available by January
31, 1998 a permanent repository for high-level radioactive waste and spent
nuclear fuel. Despite ongoing proceedings and investigations, the federal
government has not yet made such a repository available.

   Most recently, we joined approximately 17 other electric utilities in a
petition for review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit,
challenging the DOE's action in allowing PECO Energy Company (PECO) to take
credits against payments PECO would otherwise make into the Nuclear Waste Fund
(NWF). The credits are part of a DOE settlement agreement with PECO for
potential claims arising out of DOE's breach of its 1998 obligation to begin
taking SNF for storage. The petition asserts that DOE violated the Nuclear
Waste Policy Act (NWPA) by improperly depleting the NWF and releasing PECO from
a portion of its NWF obligation. The petition seeks a declaration that credits
against NWF payments to offset on-site SNF storage costs violate the NWPA, an
injunction against DOE implementing the credit and fee reduction provisions of
the settlement agreement, and an injunction against DOE entering into similar
agreements.

   We initiated the license renewal process for our nuclear power plants in
mid-1999 with expected submission to the NRC in 2001. If successful, NRC
renewed licenses will extend the operation of our four nuclear units to 2032,
2033, 2038 and 2040 for Surry Units 1 and 2 and North Anna Units 1 and 2,
respectively.

   When our nuclear units cease to operate, we will be obligated to
decontaminate the facilities. This process is referred to as decommissioning,
and we are required by the NRC to prepare for it financially. For information
on our compliance with the NRC financial assurance requirements, see Note 14 to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 53 of the 2000 Annual Report.

                                     RATES

Electric

   The majority of our electric revenue is provided through bundled rate
tariffs. In 2000, electric service sales by our electric utility subsidiary
included 73 million megawatt-hours of retail sales and 4.3 million megawatt-
hours of sales to wholesale requirements contract customers and were composed
of the following:


- --------
*  Excludes power marketing sales which are also subject to FERC regulation.

   Substantially all of the electric service sales made by our electric utility
subsidiary are currently subject to recovery of changes in fuel costs through
fuel adjustment factors. On November 27, 2000, an application was filed with
the Virginia Commission to propose an alternative fuel recovery method for the
period January 1, 2002--July 1, 2007. The proposed method would utilize a
portfolio of fuel indices, rather than actual incurred fuel costs, in the
development of the Virginia fuel factor.



Recent Virginia proceedings related to our rates include the following:

   The Virginia base (non-fuel) rates of our electric utility subsidiary are
currently capped until July 1, 2007, according to legislation passed in the
1998 session of the General Assembly.

   In December 2000, our electric utility subsidiary filed an application with
the Virginia Commission for approval of unbundled tariffs that reflect
distribution rates and wires charges for the recovery of stranded costs. These
proposed rates are requested to become effective for usage on and after January
1, 2002.

   Our electric utility subsidiary also filed an application with the Virginia
Commission to increase its Virginia fuel factor from 1.339c per kWh to 1.613c
per kWh or an estimated annual increase of $158 million. These new rates went
into effect on January 1, 2001, on an interim basis, for usage on and after
January 1, 2001 pending a hearing scheduled for March 1, 2001.

   In July 2000, the Virginia Commission issued an order to modify our
cogeneration and small power production rates under Schedule 19. The order
sustained our proposed method to determine avoided costs, agreed with our
position that off system sales should be excluded from the calculation of
avoided costs, and that the cogeneration rate should be effective through 2001.
In September 2000, our electric utility subsidiary filed a revised Schedule 19
as required by the Virginia Commission's July 2000 Order, and in November 2000
the Virginia Commission accepted for filing our revised Schedule 19 Tariff.

   In connection with the approval by the North Carolina Commission of its
acquisition of CNG, the Company agreed not to request an increase in North
Carolina retail electric base rates for both the Dominion Energy and Dominion
Delivery segments until after December 31, 2005, except for certain events that
would have a significant financial impact on the Company. Fuel rates are still
subject to change under the annual fuel cost adjustment proceedings.

Gas

   Dominion's regulated gas subsidiaries continue to seek general rate
increases with regard to their regulated gathering, transmission, storage and
gas distribution services. Such rate changes are requested on a timely basis to
recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of return are
compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general rate
increases, certain of our gas distribution subsidiaries make separate filings
with their respective regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of
purchased gas. Dominion Transmission, Inc. (Dominion Transmission), an
interstate gas transmission subsidiary, has pending rate cases before FERC,
which are intended: (1) to unbundle gathering and products extraction rates
from those for interstate transportation, and (2) to recover the costs of
certain gas used as fuel for system operations. Otherwise, Dominion's regulated
gas subsidiaries filed no new general rate cases during 2000, nor were there
any outstanding cases requiring settlement.

   In March 2001, Dominion's West Virginia gas utility subsidiary filed a rate
case with the Public Service Commission of West Virginia with a proposed
effective date for new rates as of January 1, 2002. No procedural schedule has
been established at this time. The proposed new rates are to provide for the
increased cost of gas supplies as well as increased operating costs.

           FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

   See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 68 of the 2000
Annual Report.

                               SOURCES OF ENERGY

Sources of Energy--Electricity

   Dominion Energy provides electricity for use on a wholesale and a retail
level. We can supply electricity demand either through generation from our
generation facilities in Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina and Illinois
or through power purchase contracts when needed. The following table outlines
our generating units and capability.



 Generating Units


- --------
(a) Includes an undivided interest of 11.6 percent (213.7 Mw) owned by Old
    Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC).
(b) Includes an undivided interest of 50 percent (441 Mw) owned by ODEC.
(c) Includes the four new Remington combustion turbine units that began
    operations in July 2000.
(d) Reflects Virginia Power's 60 percent undivided ownership interest in the
    2,100 Mw station. A 40 percent undivided interest in the facility is owned
    by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc.
    (AE).
(e) In 2000, our four nuclear units achieved a combined capacity factor of 95.1
    percent.




   The Company's highest one-hour integrated service area summer and all- time
peak demand was 16,216 Mw on July 6, 1999, and an all-time high one-hour
integrated winter peak demand of 15,072 Mw was reached on January 28, 2000.

 Power Purchase Contracts

   Dominion Energy purchases electricity under contracts with other suppliers
to meet a portion of our own system capacity requirements. From the mid-1980's
until the start of the 1990's, we entered into a number of long-term purchase
contracts for electricity now associated with our Dominion Energy segment. At
the end of 1999, 900 Mw of these purchases from other utilities ended, and by
the end of the first quarter of 2000, an additional 200 Mw of diversity
exchange transactions was suspended. As of December 31, 2000, we have 54 power
purchase contracts with a combined dependable summer capacity of 3,973 Mw. For
information on the financial obligations under these agreements, see Note 22 to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 60 of 2000 Annual Report.

   The Company has reached an agreement, pending regulatory approvals, to
terminate three long-term power purchase agreements. Dominion expects the
transaction to be completed in the first quarter of 2001, resulting in a one-
time, non-operating charge of approximately $135 million, after taxes. The
transaction is part of an ongoing program which seeks to achieve competitive
cost structures at its power generating business.

 Fuel for Electric Generation

   We use a variety of fuels to power our electric generation. These include a
mix of both nuclear fuel and fossil fuel as described further below.

 Nuclear Fuel Supply

   We utilize both long-term contracts and spot purchases to support our needs
for nuclear fuel. We continually evaluate worldwide market conditions in order
to ensure a range of supply options at reasonable prices. Current agreements,
inventories and spot market availability are expected to support our current
and planned fuel supply needs for fuel cycles into the early 2000's. Beyond
that period, we expect to purchase additional fuel as required to ensure
optimum cost and inventory levels.

   In March 1999, the Company, along with a consortium of companies, was
awarded a contract by DOE for mixed oxide (MOx) fuel fabrication and reactor
irradiation services. We have determined that MOx fuel can be used safely and
can potentially lower fuel costs. Furthermore, this program will improve
international security by reducing plutonium stockpiles. Certain plant and
site/facility modifications must be implemented to receive and utilize MOx
fuel. DOE will reimburse the Company for all plant and site/facility
modifications as well as other MOx fuel implementation costs. We expect to
provide irradiation services beginning September 2007.

   The DOE did not begin the acceptance of SNF in 1998 as specified in our
contract with the DOE. However, on-site SNF pool and dry container storage at
the Surry and North Anna Power Stations are expected to be adequate for our
needs until the DOE begins accepting SNF. See REGULATION--Nuclear Generation
for additional information regarding SNF.

 Fossil Fuel Supply

   The fuel mix utilized by Dominion Energy's fossil operations consists of
coal, oil, and natural gas. During 2000, we burned approximately 14 million
tons of coal. We utilize both long-term contracts and spot purchases



to support our coal needs. We presently anticipate sufficient supplies of coal
will continue to be available at reasonable prices but market prices and price
volatility will be higher. Coal producers, for the past two decades, have over-
supplied the market. As a result, market prices in the past have remained
relatively stable, even during periods when utility demand has spiked. Coal
markets have become more supply-demand balanced which will likely lead to more
price volatility in the future.

   Oil and oil-fired generation are used primarily to support heavier system
generation loads during very cold or very hot weather periods. System
requirements are purchased under both short-term spot agreements and longer
term contracts. A sufficient supply of oil is expected to be available over the
next five to ten year period.

   Dominion Energy uses natural gas as needed throughout the year for our
jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional facilities. The Company's gas supply is
obtained from various sources including: purchases from major and independent
producers in the Southwest and Midwest regions; purchases from local producers
in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas marketers; production from Company-
owned wells in the Appalachian area, the Southwest, Midwest and offshore; and
withdrawals from the Company's and third party underground storage fields.
Dominion has the capability to buy and store natural gas at summer prices,
which will then be consumed at the facilities during the winter.

   Firm natural gas transportation contracts (capacity) exist that allow
delivery of gas to our facilities. Dominion has positioned its capacity
portfolio in such a way that allows flexible natural gas deliveries to our gas
turbine fleet, while minimizing costs. With natural gas being the preferred
source of new electric generation, competition for existing gas capacity has
increased. In order to ensure reliable delivery of natural gas, Dominion has
acquired more natural gas capacity and has a rolling seven-year capacity plan
in place that will protect its fleet from any perceived or real capacity
shortage in the market.

Sources of Energy--Gas

 Gas Supply

   Dominion Energy is also engaged in the sale and storage of natural gas
through its operating subsidiaries. Sources of gas supplies for sale to
customers are the same as those described in Fossil Fuel Supply above.

   The Company has continued to purchase volumes from the array of accessible
producing basins using its firm capacity resources. These purchased supplies
include Appalachian resources in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and
production from the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and offshore areas. Upon FERC's
restructuring of the interstate pipeline business in 1992-93, pipelines no
longer sell the delivered natural gas commodity; rather, customers provide
their own gas supply for wholesale storage and/or delivery by the pipelines.
Much of the supply is purchased by local distributors, energy marketing
companies or end users, under seasonal or spot purchase agreements. While the
average term of the Company's gas purchase agreements has declined, the
reliability of supply has been adequate. The availability of supplies and
heightened competition has forged a viable market, which has proven capable of
satisfying the firm delivery requirement for supplies to the Company's markets
in a highly reliable manner. Purchased gas volumes were 422 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) or about 60% of the total 2000 supply. Spot market and short-term
purchases were 398 Bcf, or about 56% of the total 2000 supply.

   Considering the Company's large storage capacity, the volumes obtainable
under its firm interstate pipeline capacity and gas supply contracts, Company-
owned gas reserves, and assuming the future availability of spot market gas,
the Company believes that supplies will be available to meet sales requirements
for at least the next several years.

 Gas Storage--Transmission

   The Company's underground storage facilities play an important part in
balancing gas supply with sales demand and are essential to servicing the
Company's large volume of space-heating business. In addition,



storage capacity is an important element in the effective management of both
gas supply and pipeline transport capacity. The Company operates 26 underground
gas storage fields located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York.
The Company owns 20 of these storage fields and has joint-ownership with other
companies in six of the fields. The total designed capacity of the storage
fields, including native gas, is approximately 959 Bcf. The Company's share of
the total capacity is about 717 Bcf. About one-half of the total capacity is
base gas which remains in the reservoirs at all times to provide the primary
pressure which enables the balance of the gas to be withdrawn as needed.

   Dominion Transmission operates 756 Bcf of the total designed storage
capacity and owns 514 Bcf of the Company's capacity. Dominion Transmission
utilizes a large portion of its turnable capacity to provide approximately 275
Bcf of gas storage service for others. This service is provided principally to
local distributors, end users, and other customers serving the Northeast.

   Two of Dominion's gas distribution subsidiaries, Dominion East Ohio and
Dominion Peoples, own and operate the remaining 203 Bcf of storage capacity. In
addition to owning their own storage, these companies, as well as several of
the other subsidiaries, have access to a portion of the storage capacity
operated by Dominion Transmission. The distribution subsidiaries also have
capacity available in storage fields owned by others. The Company controls
other acreage in the Appalachian area suitable for the development of
additional storage facilities which would enable further expansion of capacity
to meet possible future storage needs.

                            FUTURE SOURCES OF ENERGY

   In January 2000, we filed an application with the Virginia Commission to
build and operate two 160 Mw combustion turbine units in Caroline County,
Virginia for additional peaking capacity. We have obtained the applicable
zoning permits for the construction of the generators and have applied for
other required environmental permits. The Virginia Commission approved the
project in October 2000. The units are expected to be operational by the summer
of 2001.

   In June 2000, we filed an application with the Virginia Commission to make a
number of changes to the Possum Point Power Station designed to improve air
quality and to meet existing and proposed air emission limitations in Northern
Virginia. We have proposed the retirement of two coal-fired units, conversion
of two other coal-fired units to gas, and the addition of one combined cycle
unit to be operational by May 2003. The Virginia Commission held a hearing on
the matter in January 2001.

   Dominion has reached an agreement to acquire the Millstone Nuclear Power
Station located in Waterford, Connecticut from subsidiaries of Northeast
Utilities and other owners for approximately $1.3 billion. The acquisition
includes 100% ownership in Unit 1 and Unit 2, and 93.47% ownership interest in
Unit 3, for a total of 1,954 Mw of generating capacity. See Note 5 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 47 of the 2000 Annual Report for
additional information on the Millstone Nuclear Power Station acquisition.

   Dominion has also sited four new generation plants with combined capacity of
approximately 2,000 Mw along Dominion's gas pipelines in Ohio, Pennsylvania and
West Virginia. Additional anticipated capacity expansion of 4,000 Mw is also
planned, including capacity expansions at our Elwood facility in Illinois.

   The Company has planned a $400 million addition to its natural gas
transmission system to help meet demand growth. The 200-mile Greenbrier
Pipeline will extend from West Virginia to North Carolina.

   During 2000, Dominion acquired 167 billion cubic feet equivalent of gas
reserves and additional acreage for exploratory and development drilling
through a number of purchase transactions. Significant acquisitions during the
year included the purchase of additional interests in two deepwater Gulf of
Mexico properties and various South Texas gas fields. In January 2000, Dominion
acquired an additional 12.5 percent interest in Popeye, a deepwater gas
producing property, increasing its interest to 50 percent. Dominion also
doubled its interest in the Devil's Tower deepwater discovery to 60 percent. In
August 2000, Dominion acquired the operating interests of Suemaur Exploration &
Production, LLC and several partners in three Texas Gulf Coast natural gas
fields.



               CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
  (Cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
                                     1995)

   Our disclosure and analysis in this report and in our 2000 Annual Report to
shareholders contain some "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking
statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can
identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate,"
"expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," and other words and terms of
similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or
financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to
future actions, a broad spectrum of regulatory approvals, future performance or
results of current and anticipated generation capacity, future performance or
results of the development and expansion of the telecommunications segment,
growth in customer base, financial results of asset divestitures, and the
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings. From time to time, we also
may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials we
release to the public.

   Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report, in the 2000
Annual Report and in any other public statements that we make may turn out to
be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by
known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the
discussion above--for example, government regulations, organizational and
operations restructuring, competition, weather, trading risks--will be
important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially.

   We encourage you to read thoroughly Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and its Forward-Looking
Statements.

   We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are
advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC.

                               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

   Dominion's assets consist primarily of its investments in its subsidiaries,
the principal properties of which are described below.

   Our Dominion Energy segment utilizes the electric generation facilities
listed under the heading Sources of Power--Generating Units in Item 1.
BUSINESS. Additionally, in connection with gas transmission and storage
operations, Dominion Energy's storage operation consists of 26 storage fields,
342,605 acres of operated leaseholds, 2,069 storage wells and 822 miles of
pipe. A significant portion of our investment in gas transmission facilities is
for 6,428 miles of pipe required to move large volumes of gas throughout the
Company's operating area.

   Our Dominion Energy segment also includes 99 compressor stations with
492,040 installed compressor horsepower located in Ohio, West Virginia,
Pennsylvania and New York. Some of the stations are used interchangeably for
several functions.

   Our Dominion Delivery segment utilizes 3,600 miles of electric transmission
lines. Right-of-way grants from the apparent owners of real estate have been
obtained for most electric lines, but underlying titles have not been examined
except for transmission lines of 69 Kv or more. Where rights of way have not
been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by condemnation, if
necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly owned property, as to which
permission for use is generally revocable. Portions of our transmission lines
cross national parks and forests under permits entitling the federal government
to use, at specified charges, surplus capacity in the line if any exists.

   Dominion Delivery's investment in its gas distribution network is located in
the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The gas distribution
network includes 27,060 miles of pipe, exclusive of service pipe.



   The Company's investment in its natural gas system is considered suitable to
do all things necessary to bring gas to the consumer. The Company's properties
provided the capacity to meet a record system peak day sendout, including
transportation service, of 11.4 Bcf on February 6, 1995. The system peak day
sendout in 2000 was 8.6 Bcf on January 27.

   Information detailing Dominion Exploration & Production's oil and gas
investments is as follows:

Company-Owned Reserves

   Estimated net quantities of proved gas and oil reserves at December 31 were
as follows:



   Dominion E&P and Dominion Transmission file Form EIA-23 with the DOE. The
reserves reported on Form EIA-23 at December 31, 2000, as well as those which
will be reported at December 31, 2001, are not reconcilable with Company-owned
reserves because they are calculated on an operated basis and include working
interest reserves of all parties.

Quantities of Gas and Oil Produced

   Quantities of gas and oil produced during each of the last three years
ending December 31 follow:



   The average sales price (including transfers to other operations as
determined under Financial Accounting Standards Board rules) per Mcf of non-
cost-of-service gas produced during the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $3.10,
$2.06 and $2.07, respectively. The respective average sales prices for oil were
$22.88, $13.55 and $11.94 per barrel. The average production (lifting) cost per
Mcf equivalent of gas and oil produced during the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 was
$.49, $.71 and $.63, respectively.




Productive Wells

   The number of productive gas and oil wells in which the Company's
subsidiaries had an interest at December 31, 2000, follow:



   Includes 82 gross (23 net) multiple completion gas wells and 21 gross (8
net) multiple completion oil wells.

Net Wells Drilled in the Calendar Year

   The number of net wells completed during each of the last three years
follows:



   As of December 31, 2000, 36 gross (21 net) wells were in process of
drilling, including wells temporarily suspended.



Acreage

   The following table sets forth the gross and net developed and undeveloped
acreage of the Company's subsidiaries at December 31, 2000:


- --------
*  Developed acreage includes 212,055 gross and net cost-of-service acres.

                           ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   From time to time, Dominion and its subsidiaries are alleged to be in
violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating
to the environment, compliance plans imposed upon or agreed to by us, or
permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the
construction or operation of facilities. From time to time, there may be
administrative proceedings on these matters pending. In addition, in the normal
course of business, Dominion and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal
proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, liquidity or results of operations.

   See REGULATION and RATES under Item 1. BUSINESS for information on various
regulatory proceedings to which we are a party.

   In April 1999, Virginia Power was notified by the Department of Justice of
alleged noncompliance with the EPA's oil spill prevention, control and
countermeasures (SPCC) plans and facility response plan (FRP) requirements at
one of our power stations. If, in a legal proceeding, such instances of
noncompliance are deemed to have occurred, Virginia Power may be required to
remedy any alleged deficiencies and pay civil penalties. Settlement of this
matter is currently in negotiation and is not expected to have a material
impact on our Company's financial condition or results of operations.

   In August 1999, Virginia Power identified matters at certain other power
stations that the EPA might view as not in compliance with the SPCC and FRP
requirements. Virginia Power reported these matters to the EPA and our plan for
correcting them. The EPA has not assessed any penalties, pending its review of
the disclosure information. Future resolution of these matters is not expected
to have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

   In August 1990, Dominion Transmission entered into a Consent Order and
Agreement with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) in which Dominion Transmission agreed with the DEP's
determination of certain violations of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
Act, the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. No civil penalties have been assessed. According to the
Order and Agreement, Dominion Transmission continues to perform sampling,
testing and analysis, and conducts a program of remediation at some of its
Pennsylvania facilities. Dominion Transmission has recognized an estimated
liability amounting to $6 million at December 31, 2000, for future costs
expected to be incurred to remediate or mitigate hazardous substances at these
sites and at facilities covered by the Order and Agreement.

   During 2000, Dominion Transmission paid a total of $380,000 related to a
hydrocarbon spill in February 1998 at one of its facilities in Aliquippa,
Beaver County, Pennsylvania. Dominion Transmission settled the matter by
contributing $200,000 to the Penn's Corner Conservancy Charitable Trust and
$80,000 to the Beaver County Conservation District, and paying $100,000 to the
DEP for response costs.



   During 2000, Virginia Power received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the
EPA alleging that we failed to obtain New Source Review permits under the Clean
Air Act prior to undertaking specified construction projects at our Mt. Storm
Power Station in West Virginia. EPA alleges that each of these projects
resulted in an increase in the emission of air pollutants beyond levels that
require a New Source Review permit specified under the Clean Air Act. Also in
2000, the Attorney General of New York filed a suit alleging similar violations
of the Clean Air Act at the Mt. Storm Power Station. Virginia Power also
received notices from the Attorneys General of Connecticut and New Jersey of
their intentions to file suit for similar violations. Virginia Power has
reached an agreement in principle with the federal government and the state of
New York to resolve this situation. The agreement in principle includes payment
of a $5 million civil penalty, a commitment of $14 million for major
environmental projects in Virginia, West Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey and
New York, and a 12-year, $1.2 billion capital investment program for
environmental improvements at the Company's coal-fired generating stations in
Virginia and West Virginia. Although Virginia Power reached an agreement in
principle, the terms of a final binding settlement are still being negotiated.
See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 61 of the 2000
Annual Report.

   Following the announcement of the merger, in April 1999, CNG and its
directors were served with a Class Action Complaint, which sought, among other
things, to compel CNG to sell the company for the highest value to CNG
shareholders. Several additional Class Action Complaints, seeking essentially
the same relief, have been combined with this action. CNG moved to dismiss, and
on February 15, 2000, the plaintiffs took action for dismissal.

   A qui tam action (one in which the plaintiff sues for the government as well
as for itself, and gets to keep part of the recovery) was brought by Jack
Grynberg, an oil and gas entrepreneur, against a major part of the gas
industry, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries. The complaint, which
was filed on July 2, 1997, was under seal pending Department of Justice review.
The Department of Justice declined to intervene and the seal was lifted in May
1999. CNG was served in the Western District of Louisiana on May 1, 1999. The
suit alleges fraudulent mismeasurement of gas volumes and underreporting of gas
royalties from gas production taken from federal leases. The cases have been
removed to the Eastern District of Wyoming, where a motion to dismiss will be
filed by the Company.

   A class action was filed by Quinque Operating Co. and others against
approximately 300 defendants, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries, in
Stevens County, Kansas. The complaint, which was served on CNG and its
subsidiaries on September 24, 1999, alleged fraud, misrepresentation,
conversion and assorted other claims, in the measurement and payment of gas
royalties from privately held gas leases. The case has been remanded to Kansas
state court by the federal judge overseeing the Grynberg case. The plaintiffs
will seek class certification and expedited discovery in Kansas. The defendants
in the case have filed a motion to keep the case in federal court.




          ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   None.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT










                                    PART II

   ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                                    MATTERS

   Dominion Resources common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
at December 31, 2000 there were 188,737 common shareholders of record.
Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends contained in Note
26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 67 of the 2000 Annual
Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, filed herein as Exhibit 13,
is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

                        ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   This information contained under the caption "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" on page 69 of the 2000 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2000, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
                                 OF OPERATIONS

   This information contained under the caption Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 30 through
40 of the 2000 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, filed
herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

   In addition, see Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information to Registrant
under Part IV, Item 14 for the separate, condensed financial statements and
related notes for Dominion Resources, Inc. which contain information on certain
restrictions in affect at December 31, 2000 on CNG's ability to make dividend
payments. These restrictions did not affect the Company's ability to meet its
cash obligations. Further as set out in Schedule I, this restriction has been
eliminated.

      ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

   This information contained under the following captions:

     Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management

       Interest Rate Risk

       Commodity Price Risk--Non-Trading Activities

       Commodity Price Risk--Trading Activities

       Equity Price Risk

       Risk Management Policies

under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations on pages 39 and 40 of the 2000 Annual Report for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2000, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated
herein by reference.

              ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   This information contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages
25 through 69 and related report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent
auditors, appearing on page 70 of the 2000 Annual Report for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2000, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated
herein by reference.

   In addition, see Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
under Part IV, Item 14 for the separate, condensed financial statements and
related notes, for Dominion Resources, Inc. which contain information on
certain restrictions in affect at December 31, 2000 on CNG's ability to make
dividend payments. These restrictions did not affect the Company's ability to
meet its cash obligations. Further as set out in Schedule I, this restriction
has been eliminated.

    ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.



                                    PART III

          ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Information regarding the directors of Dominion contained in the 2001 Proxy
Statement, under the heading The Board, File No. 1-8489, dated March 16, 2001
(the 2001 Proxy Statement), is incorporated herein by reference. The
information concerning the executive officers of Dominion required by this item
is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
THE REGISTRANT.

                        ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The information regarding executive compensation contained under the heading
Executive Compensation and the information regarding director compensation
contained under the heading The Board--Compensation and Other Programs in the
2001 Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference.

    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

   The information concerning stock ownership by directors and executive
officers is contained under the heading The Board--Share Ownership Table in the
2001 Proxy Statement, is hereby incorporated herein by reference. There is no
person known by Dominion to be the beneficial owner of more than five percent
of Dominion common stock.

            ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The information concerning certain transactions with executive officers
under the Stock Purchase and Loan Program contained under the heading Executive
Compensation in the 2001 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



                                    PART IV

   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   (a) Certain documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference and found on the pages noted.

     1. Financial Statements



   All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or the related notes.

     3. Exhibits



























- --------
*  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

   (b) Reports on Form 8-K

   1. Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated November 16, 2000, relating to
Dominion's agreement in principle with the Environmental Protection Agency
regarding environmental improvements at coal-fired generating stations in
Virginia and West Virginia.

   2. Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated November 22, 2000, relating to
the Dominion's Purchase Agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated (Merrill Lynch and Co.) to sell 6,000,000 shares of common stock
to Merrill Lynch & Co.

   3. Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 9, 2001, relating to
(i) the Dominion and Dominion Resources Capital Trust III underwriting
agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan
Stanley & Co. for the sale of 250,000 8.4% Capital Securities and (ii) the
Dominion and Dominion Resources Capital Trust II underwriting agreement with
Merrill Lynch for the sale of 12,000,000 8.4% Trust Preferred Securities.

   4. Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 23, 2001, relating to
the Dominion's underwriting agreement with Lehman Brothers Inc. for the sale of
$1,000,000,000 2001 Series A 6% Senior Notes Due 2003.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Dominion Resources, Inc.
Richmond, Virginia

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Dominion Resources,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, and have issued our report
thereon dated January 25, 2001; such consolidated financial statements and
report are included in your 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedules of Dominion Resources, Inc. and subsidiaries,
listed in Item 14. These consolidated financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Richmond, Virginia
January 25, 2001



                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

           Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                         Condensed Statements of Income



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Condensed Financial
Statements.




                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

           Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                            Condensed Balance Sheets



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Condensed Financial
Statements.



                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

           Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Condensed Financial
Statements.





                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

           Schedule I--Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                    Notes to Condensed Financial Statements

Note 1. Basis of Presentation

   Pursuant to rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the unconsolidated condensed financial statements of Dominion Resources, Inc.
(the Company) do not reflect all of the information and notes normally included
with financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Therefore these financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes
included in the fiscal 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders (2000 Annual Report)
as referenced in Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8.

   Accounting for subsidiaries--The Company has accounted for the earnings of
its subsidiaries under the equity method in the unconsolidated condensed
financial statements.

   Income Taxes--The unconsolidated income tax expense or benefit computed for
the Company in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
109, Accounting for Income Taxes, reflects the tax assets and liabilities of
the Company on a stand alone basis and the effect of filing a consolidated U.S.
tax return with its subsidiaries.

Note 2. Long-term debt



- --------
(/1/)The weighted average interest rate for the years 2000 and 1999 were 6.5%
     and 5.4%, respectively.
(/2/)Real estate at the Company is pledged as collateral.
(/3/)Interest rates are rounded to the nearest one-tenth of one-percent and
     consist of weighted average interest rates for variable rate debt.

   Maturities (including sinking fund obligations) through 2005 are as follows
(millions): 2003-$400; 2004-$431; 2005-$700.

   In January 2001, the Company issued $1.0 billion of 2-year fixed rate 6%
notes, $309 million in aggregate principal of 8.4% junior subordinated
debentures due 2041 and $258 million in aggregate principal of 8.4% junior
subordinated debentures due 2031. See Notes 16 and 17 to the 2000 Annual
Report.




Note 3. Guarantees

   The Company has issued guarantees to various third parties in relation to
the payment of obligations by certain of its subsidiaries and officers. At
December 31, 2000, the Company had issued $1.8 billion of guarantees, and the
subsidiaries' debt subject to such guarantees totaled $1.2 billion.

Note 4. Dividends received from consolidated subsidiaries

   The Company received dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries in the
amounts of $1.3 billion, $519 million and $1.2 billion for the years 2000,
1999, and 1998, respectively. Cash dividends in 2000 included approximately
$770 million reflecting proceeds from divestitures at certain of the Company's
subsidiaries (see Note 5 to the 2000 Annual Report). Cash dividends in 1998
included approximately $720 million reflecting a portion of the proceeds from
the sale of East Midlands Electricity plc by a subsidiary.

   Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), a consolidated subsidiary of the
Company, has indentures related to its long-term debt, one of which contained
restrictions on dividend payments at December 31, 2000. As of that date, $19
million of CNG's consolidated retained earnings were free from such
restriction. In March 2001, CNG requested and obtained the consent of debt
holders to amend the indenture to eliminate certain provisions of the
indenture, including such restriction. CNG received an order from the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19, 2001, approving the amendment
of the indenture.



                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                 Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


- --------
(a) Represents net amounts charged off as uncollectible.
(b) Amounts are net of adjustments to allowance reflecting changes in
    estimates.
(c) Represents payments for workforce reductions and/or restructuring
    liabilities.
(d) Includes balance of acquired company at date of acquisition.



                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Dominion Resources, Inc.

                                                    /s/ Thomas E. Capps
                                          By: _________________________________
                                              (Thos E. Capps, Chairman of the
                                             Board of Directors, President and
                                                 Chief Executive Officer)

Date: March 20, 2001

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the 20th day of March, 2001.










                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                                    PORTIONS
                                     OF THE
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                       TO
                                  SHAREHOLDERS

                          (Incorporated by Reference)


