
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549                                                 FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
/X/  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) Of The Securities Exchange
Act of 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

or

/ /  Transition Report Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d) Of The Securities
Exchange Act Of 1934
For the transition period from to
                       ---------  ---------

Commission file number 1-8489


                                                        DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.


                          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


Title of each class                                                     Virginia
Common Stock, no par value
                  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)


Name of each exchange on which registered
                                   120 Tredegar Street Richmond, Virginia  23219
New York Stock Exchange      (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:           54-1229715
None                                        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) (804) 819-2000

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was over $8.6 billion based on the closing price of our Common Stock
on January 31, 2000, as reported on the composite tape by The Wall Street
Journal.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

(a) Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1999 are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV
hereof.

(b) Portions of the 2000 Proxy Statement, dated March 16, 2000, are
incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.


                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.




                                    PART I

                               ITEM 1. BUSINESS
                                  THE COMPANY

  Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion), a diversified utility holding company,
has its principal office at 120 Tredegar Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219,
telephone (804) 819-2000. Its principal subsidiaries are Virginia Electric and
Power Company, (Virginia Power) a regulated public utility engaged in the
generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Virginia
and northeastern North Carolina, and Consolidated Natural Gas Company (CNG), a
producer, transporter, distributor and retail marketer of natural gas serving
customers in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia, New York and other
cities focused in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States.
Its other major subsidiaries are Dominion Energy, Inc. (DEI), its independent
power and natural gas subsidiary, and Dominion Capital, Inc. (Dominion
Capital), its diversified financial services company.

  Dominion was incorporated in 1983 as a Virginia corporation. Dominion and
its subsidiaries (excluding CNG) had 11,035 full-time employees as of December
31, 1999.

  Dominion also owns and operates a 365 Mw natural gas fired generating
facility in the United Kingdom.

                              Recent Developments

  On January 28, 2000, Dominion and CNG completed the merger of CNG into a
subsidiary of Dominion. Shareholders of CNG received Dominion common stock
and/or cash in consideration of their CNG shares. The combination with CNG,
based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, creates a fully integrated electric and
natural gas utility in the Midwest, Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the
United States with selective energy businesses located abroad.

  As a result of the merger, Dominion is a registered public utility holding
company subject to the provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935 (the 1935 Act). CNG also continues to be a registered holding company
under the 1935 Act. The 1935 Act imposes a number of restrictions on the
operations of registered holding company systems. One such restriction limits
the ability of a registered holding company to engage in activities unrelated
to its utility operations or other energy related businesses. Consequently, as
part of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) order approving the
merger under the 1935 Act, Dominion must divest itself of Dominion Capital,
its financial services subsidiary. Although a formal plan for divestiture has
not been adopted, the SEC allowed three years for this to be accomplished.
During the merger approval process, Dominion and CNG also agreed to divest
Virginia Natural Gas, Inc. (VNG), CNG's gas distribution subsidiary located in
Virginia Beach, Virginia. Dominion has one year after the merger is completed
to sell VNG to a third party. If the sale of VNG is not completed within one
year, VNG will be spun off as an independent company with the common stock
distributed to Dominion shareholders. Both deadlines are subject to reasonable
extensions, which may be granted by regulatory authorities.

  As a result of Dominion's focus in the Midwest, Northeast and Mid-Atlantic
quadrant of the U.S., DEI reached an agreement in 1999 to sell its interests
in approximately 1,200 megawatts of gross generation capacity located in Latin
America. Duke Energy International is purchasing the interests for
approximately $405 million. The interests being sold are located in Argentina,
Belize, Bolivia and Peru and generate electricity from hydroelectric, natural
gas and diesel fuel sources. DEI completed the sale of its interests in Belize
and Peru on November 1, 1999 and expects to complete the sale of its interests
in Argentina and Bolivia in 2000, following receipt of certain regulatory
approvals. Similarly, Dominion has begun exploring the sale of CNG's
international operations.




  In conjunction with the merger, Dominion created a subsidiary service
company, Dominion Resources Services, Inc. (the Dominion Service Company),
which will provide certain services to Dominion's operating subsidiaries.
Employees of Dominion and Virginia Power who will perform those functions
became employees of the Dominion Service Company effective February 1, 2000.
CNG also has a service company. The operating subsidiaries may elect to
purchase services from either service company; however, service company
functions are expected to be combined in a single service company by March 31,
2001.

  Dominion funded the merger with a $3.5 billion commercial paper program
backed by a short-term credit facility agented by the Bank of America and $1
billion of privately placed money market notes. The Company expects to replace
much of the short-term financing with long-term financing using a combination
of debt, preferred and/or convertible securities along with the proceeds of
any sales of non-core assets over the next several years, including VNG,
Dominion Capital, DEI's interests in Latin American power generation, as
discussed above, and CNG International, as discussed in CNG--International
Activities below.

  For additional information, see FUTURE ISSUES-CNG Merger under MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(MD&A) on page 32 and Note X to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on
page 57 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

                               Business Segments

  In 1999, in preparation for the transition to competition for electric
generation in Virginia, Dominion began evaluating operating results and
financial information across Virginia Power's and DEI's current business
lines. Although the employees and assets involved remain with their respective
legal entities, Dominion currently evaluates the operations of DEI and
Virginia Power in the following business segments:

  .  generation-related operations of both Virginia Power and DEI (referred
     to as Dominion Energy);

  .  regulated electric transmission and distribution services (referred to
     as Dominion Delivery); and

  .  oil and gas operations of DEI (referred to as Dominion Exploration &
     Production or Dominion E&P).

  In addition to the business segments mentioned above, Dominion also
considers the following as business segments:

  .  the financial services businesses of Dominion Capital;

  .  East Midlands which was sold by Dominion in mid-1998; and

  .  Corporate Operations which include: corporate operations of Dominion's
     holding company and U.K. operations.

  Going forward, Dominion intends to manage the oil and gas exploration and
production operations and pipeline transmission operations of CNG and DEI on a
combined basis as Dominion E&P. Dominion also intends to manage CNG's
regulated local gas distribution companies and the related customer services
functions together with Virginia Power's regulated electric transmission and
distribution services as Dominion Delivery.

  Dominion has generally structured this description of the Company to reflect
the business segments described above. However, for purposes of this report,
CNG's operations are separately discussed.

  The Dominion Energy business segment includes the generation-related
operations of Virginia Power (the utility operations) and DEI (the non-utility
operations). Virginia Power is also where the electric operations of the
Dominion Delivery business segment are conducted. See Dominion Energy--Non-
Utility Operations for a discussion of that aspect of the Dominion Energy
business segment.




  As previously discussed, Dominion is in transition as it prepares for
deregulation. As a result, it is difficult to entirely segregate the
discussion of Virginia Power's Generation and Delivery businesses. However,
discussion below identifies, where practicable, the appropriate business
segment being described.

                      Dominion Energy--Utility Operations
                                      and
                      Dominion Delivery (Virginia Power)

  Virginia Electric and Power Company is a public utility engaged in the power
generation and electric service delivery business within a 30,000 square-mile
service territory in Virginia and northeastern North Carolina. Virginia Power
supplies energy at retail to approximately two million customers. In addition,
Virginia Power sells electricity at wholesale to rural electric cooperatives,
power marketers and certain municipalities. The term "Virginia Power" refers
to the entirety of Virginia Electric and Power Company, including its Virginia
and North Carolina operations and all of its subsidiaries.

  In Virginia, Virginia Power trades under the name "Virginia Power." The
Virginia service area comprises about 65 percent of Virginia's total land
area, but accounts for over 80 percent of its population. In North Carolina,
Virginia Power trades under the name "North Carolina Power" and serves retail
customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain
municipalities. Virginia Power also engages in off-system wholesale purchases
and sales of electricity and purchases and sales of natural gas and is
developing trading relationships beyond the geographic limits of its retail
service territory. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the State
Corporation Commission of Virginia (the Virginia Commission) and the North
Carolina Utilities Commission (the North Carolina Commission) are the
principal regulators of Virginia Power's electric operations.

  Various factors are currently affecting the electric utility industry,
including increasing competition and related regulatory changes, costs to
comply with environmental regulations, and the potential for new business
opportunities outside of traditional rate-regulated operations. To meet the
challenges of this new competitive environment, Virginia Power continues to
consider new business opportunities, particularly those which allow it to use
the expertise and resources developed through its regulated utility
experience. Over the past several years Virginia Power has developed a broad
array of "non-traditional" products and services. Examples of non-traditional
services include wholesale power marketing and telecommunications. Virginia
Power also markets its services to other utilities in areas such as nuclear
consulting and management and power distribution (i.e., transmission,
distribution, engineering and metering services). Virginia Power is continuing
to focus on new and existing programs to enhance customer satisfaction and
energy efficiency.

  The aspects of Virginia Power's business in the Dominion Energy segment
include its generation portfolio, trading and marketing activities, nuclear
consulting services and energy services activities.

  Dominion Delivery includes Virginia Power's regulated electric transmission
and distribution services, bulk power transmission, distribution and metering
services and customer service. It continues to be subject to cost-based
regulation.

Competition

  The structure of the electric industry in Virginia Power's service territory
and throughout the United States has been relatively stable for many years.
Recently, however, there have been both federal and state developments toward
less regulation and increased competition. Electric utilities have been
required to open up their transmission systems for non-discriminatory use by
potential wholesale competitors. In addition, non-utility power marketers now
compete with electric utilities in the wholesale generation market. At the
federal level, retail competition is under consideration. Some states,
including Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring retail competition.



  Currently, as in the past, there is no general retail competition in our
principal service area. Today Virginia Power's only competition for retail
sales arises when certain of its business customers move into another utility
service territory, use other energy sources instead of electric power, or
generate their own electricity. However, Virginia has adopted legislation
requiring retail competition beginning in 2002 and North Carolina is
considering retail competition. To the extent that competition is permitted,
Virginia Power's ability to sell power at prices that will allow it to recover
prudently incurred costs may be an issue. Additionally, Virginia Power is in
the process of developing a retail access pilot program for implementation by
the summer of 2000 in Virginia.

  Virginia Power continues to participate actively in both the legislative and
regulatory processes relating to industry restructuring in an effort to ensure
an orderly transition from a regulated environment. Virginia Power has also
responded to the trends toward competition by cutting costs, re-engineering
its core business processes and pursuing innovative approaches to serving
traditional and future markets. In addition, Virginia Power is developing
certain "non-traditional" products and services as described above in an
effort to provide growth in future earnings.

  For additional information on our changing industry environment see FUTURE
ISSUES--Dominion Delivery Business and Utility Operations of Dominion Energy
under MD&A on pages 33 through 35 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Regulation

 General

  Many aspects of Virginia Power's business are presently subject to
regulation by the Virginia Commission, the North Carolina Commission, FERC,
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Energy (DOE), Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Army Corps of Engineers and other federal,
state and local authorities. Furthermore, with Dominion becoming a registered
public utility holding company under the 1935 Act, both the Dominion Energy
and Dominion Delivery businesses are now subject to regulation by the SEC.

  Virginia Power holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued
by the Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission authorizing it to
construct and operate the electric facilities now in operation for which
certificates are required, and to sell electricity to retail customers.
However, Virginia Power may not construct, or incur financial commitments for
construction of, any substantial generating facilities or large capacity
transmission lines without the prior approval of various state and federal
governmental agencies.

  The Virginia Commission and the North Carolina Commission regulate Virginia
Power's bundled rates for its Dominion Energy business and Dominion Delivery
business for retail electric sales and FERC approves Virginia Power's rates
for electric sales to wholesale customers.

  The following sections discuss various regulatory proceedings in which
Virginia Power is or has recently been involved. Rate specific proceedings are
discussed separately in the section below entitled Rates. Environmental
matters are discussed separately in the section below entitled Environmental.

 Virginia

  Virginia Power is subject to the jurisdiction of the Virginia Commission,
which has broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities,
including rates, service regulations and sales of securities. The following is
a description of recent Virginia proceedings. The affected segments are
indicated parenthetically.

  In March 1998, the Virginia Commission issued an Order Establishing
Investigation with regard to independent system operators (ISO's), regional
power exchanges (RPX's) and retail access pilot programs. The Order directed
all investor-owned electric utilities to begin, in conjunction with the
Virginia Commission Staff and other interested parties, to develop one or more
ISO's and RPX's to serve the public interest in Virginia.



The Virginia Electric Utility Restructuring Act (Act), signed into law in
1999, requires that Virginia's incumbent electric utilities join or establish
a regional transmission entity (RTE) by January 1, 2001, and seek
authorization from the Virginia Commission to transfer operational control of
their transmission facilities to the RTE. In May 1999, the Virginia Commission
issued an Order Establishing Investigation and invited comments concerning the
development of the rules required by the Act. Virginia Power submitted
comments in June 1999 and reply comments in July 1999. In January 2000, the
Virginia Commission issued an Order giving notice of, and requesting comments
to, proposed rules and regulations establishing the elements of RTE structures
to be applied by the Virginia Commission in determining whether to authorize
the transfer of operational control of the transmission facilities to the RTE.
Virginia Power submitted comments on the proposed rules and regulations in
February 2000. Under the proposed rules, Virginia Power will be required to
seek authorization to transfer operational control of its transmission
facilities to a RTE on or before May 1, 2000. (Dominion Delivery)

  In addition, the March 1998 Order instructed Virginia Power and American
Electric Power-Virginia (AEP), as the Commonwealth's two largest investor-
owned utilities, each to design and file a retail access pilot program. In
response, Virginia Power filed a report describing the details, objectives and
characteristics of its proposed retail access pilot program and a hearing was
held. Virginia Power is currently awaiting a Final Order. For more details on
the proposed retail access pilot program, see FUTURE ISSUES--Competition--
Regulatory Initiatives under MD&A on page 34 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders. (Dominion Energy and Dominion Delivery)

  In December 1999, the Virginia Commission issued orders approving the
addition of two wholly-owned subsidiaries of Virginia Power Services, Inc.,
namely Evantage, Inc. (Evantage) and VP Property, Inc. (VP Property), to the
Affiliate Services Agreement approved by the Virginia Commission in its
September 1997 Order. In connection with the organization of Evantage and VP
Property, the Virginia Commission issued two related orders approving the
transfer of certain contracts and assets from Virginia Power to these
subsidiaries. (Dominion Energy)

  In December 1999, in connection with the merger the Virginia Commission
issued an order approving service and support agreements which provide for
administrative management and other services for Dominion and its
subsidiaries.

  In January 2000, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
Commission to build and operate two 160 Mw combustion turbine units in
Caroline County, Virginia for additional peaking capacity. Virginia Power has
obtained the applicable zoning permits for the construction of the generators
and has applied for other required environmental permits. The Virginia
Commission set a hearing date of May 23, 2000 to consider the application.
(Dominion Energy)

 North Carolina

  The 1997 session of the North Carolina General Assembly created a study
commission on the future of electric service in North Carolina. In October
1999, Duke Energy Corp. and Carolina Power and Light Company submitted a
proposal to the study commission addressing certain municipal debt issues that
must be resolved before a comprehensive restructuring plan can be developed.
The North Carolina Commission continues to study the subject of deregulation
in anticipation that the 2000 session of the General Assembly will consider
the issue when it convenes in May of 2000. (Dominion Delivery and Dominion
Energy)

 Federal

  The Federal Power Act subjects Virginia Power to regulation by FERC as a
company engaged in the transmission or sale of wholesale electric energy in
interstate commerce. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT) and FERC's
subsequent rulemaking activities allow FERC to order access for third parties
to transmission facilities owned by another entity. This authority is limited,
however, and does not permit FERC to issue orders requiring transmission
access to retail customers. FERC has issued orders for third-party



transmission service. FERC has also issued a number of rules of general
applicability, including Orders 888, 889 and 2000. (Dominion Delivery)

  Pursuant to FERC's final rules, Virginia Power established an open access
same-time information system (OASIS) which became operational January 1997. In
addition, in July 1997 Virginia Power filed amendments to its existing rate
tariff with FERC so that it could make wholesale power sales at market-based
rates. Under a FERC order conditionally accepting Virginia Power's market-
based rate schedule, Virginia Power began making market-based sales of
wholesale power in 1997. FERC set for hearing the issue of whether
transmission constraints limiting the transfer of power into Virginia Power's
service territory would provide it with generation dominance in local markets.
This issue was resolved through FERC's acceptance of an offer of settlement in
which Virginia Power agreed to refrain from making sales under its market-
based tariff to loads located within its service territory. This settlement
did not preclude Virginia Power from requesting FERC authorization of such
sales in the future, but until such authorization has been granted by FERC,
agreements by Virginia Power to sell wholesale power to loads located within
its service territory are to be at cost-based rates accepted by FERC. Virginia
Power filed in February 2000 an application with FERC to make sales under its
market based rate tariff to retail loads within its service territory to
accommodate a retail access pilot program. Also, in February 2000, Virginia
Power filed an application with FERC to amend its open access transmission
tariff to accommodate the retail access pilot program. (Dominion Energy)

  In June 1999, Virginia Power, along with AEP, First Energy Corp., and
Consumers Energy Company and The Detroit Edison Company, on behalf of
themselves and their respective public utility operating company subsidiaries
filed with FERC applications under Sections 205 and 203 of the Federal Power
Act for approval of a proposed regional transmission organization. For more
detail on the application, see Dominion Delivery-- Interconnections section
below. (Dominion Delivery)

 Environmental

  The Dominion Energy business faces substantial regulation and compliance
costs with respect to environmental matters. For discussion of significant
aspects of these matters, including current and planned capital expenditures
relating to environmental compliance, see FUTURE ISSUES--Environmental
Matters, Environmental Protection and Monitoring Expenditures, Clean Air Act
Compliance, and Global Climate Change on pages 35 and 36 also see Virginia
Power--Capital Requirements and DEI--Capital Requirements under MD&A on pages
30 and 31, respectively, in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  From time to time Dominion may be identified as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) with respect to a superfund site. EPA (or a state) can either (a)
allow such a party to conduct and pay for a remedial investigation,
feasibility study and remedial action or (b) conduct the remedial
investigation and action and then seek reimbursement from the parties. Each
party can be held jointly, severally and strictly liable for all costs, but
the parties can then bring contribution actions against each other and seek
reimbursement from their insurance companies. As a result of the Superfund Act
or other laws or regulations regarding the remediation of waste, Dominion may
be required to expend amounts on remedial investigations and actions. Dominion
does not believe that any currently identified sites will result in
significant liabilities. For additional information regarding environmental
matters see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS below, FUTURE ISSUES--Environmental
Matters on page 35 and Note Q to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on
page 51 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  In accordance with applicable federal and state environmental laws, the
Dominion Energy business has applied for or obtained the necessary
environmental permits material to the operation of its generating stations.
Many of these permits are subject to reissuance and continuing review.



 Nuclear Generation

  All aspects of the operation and maintenance of Virginia Power's nuclear
power stations, which are a part of the Dominion Energy business, are
regulated by the NRC. Operating licenses issued by the NRC are subject to
revocation, suspension or modification, and operation of a nuclear unit may be
suspended if the NRC determines that the public interest, health or safety so
requires.

  From time to time, the NRC adopts new requirements for the operation and
maintenance of nuclear facilities. In many cases, these new regulations
require changes in the design, operation and maintenance of existing nuclear
facilities. If the NRC adopts such requirements in the future, it could result
in substantial increases in the cost of operating and maintaining nuclear
generating units.

  One of the issues associated with the operation and decommissioning of
nuclear facilities is disposal of spent nuclear fuel (SNF). The Nuclear Waste
Policy Act of 1982 required the federal government to make available by
January 31, 1998 a permanent repository for high-level radioactive waste and
SNF. The federal government has not made such a repository available.

  In July 1995, the Virginia Commission instituted an investigation regarding
SNF disposal. As directed, Virginia Power and others filed comments on legal
and public policy issues related to SNF storage and disposal. In February
1996, the Virginia Commission Staff filed its report recommending that
adoption of a definitive policy on SNF disposal issues be delayed pending the
outcome of litigation against DOE concerning SNF acceptance, the outcome of
proposed federal legislation concerning development of an interim storage
facility and development of a vision of the likely outcome of the electric
utility industry's restructuring efforts. The Virginia Commission consolidated
the proceeding with Virginia Power's pending fuel cost recovery proceeding in
October 1996. In March 1997, the Virginia Commission returned the SNF disposal
issue to a separate proceeding. No procedural order has been issued, but the
proceeding is pending.

  In response to DOE's insufficient progress towards providing a permanent
repository for SNF, in January 1997, Virginia Power and numerous other
electric utilities requested the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit (the DC Circuit) to order DOE to begin accepting
the utilities' SNF for disposal by January 31, 1998. In November 1997, the DC
Circuit found that DOE's obligation to begin accepting SNF by the deadline is
"unconditional" and that DOE may not excuse its delay on the grounds that
delays were unavoidable. In February 1998, Virginia Power and other electric
utilities requested the DC Circuit to require DOE to begin moving SNF,
prohibit DOE from using the Nuclear Waste Fund (NWF) to pay damages and
relieve utilities of their obligation to pay NWF fees unless and until DOE
complies with its obligations. In May 1998, the DC Circuit refused to require
DOE to begin moving SNF and found that utilities should pursue their remedies
under their SNF contracts with DOE. In November 1998, the U.S. Supreme Court
denied DOE's request for review of the DC Circuit's decisions. Virginia Power
is considering whether to seek other remedies.

  When Virginia Power nuclear units cease to operate, Virginia Power will be
obligated to decontaminate the facilities. This process is referred to as
decommissioning, and Virginia Power is required by the NRC to prepare for it
financially. For information on compliance with the NRC financial assurance
requirements, see Note F to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page
44 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  Virginia Power initiated the license renewal process for its nuclear power
plants in mid-1999 with expected submission to the NRC in late 2003. If
successful, NRC renewed licenses will extend the operation of Virginia Power's
four nuclear units to 2032, 2033, 2038 and 2040 for Surry Units 1 and 2 and
North Anna Units 1 and 2, respectively.

Rates

  The majority of Virginia Power's revenue is provided through bundled rate
tariffs. Accordingly, the following discussion applies to both the Dominion
Energy business' utility operations and the Dominion



Delivery business. 1999 electric service sales for Virginia Power included 70
million megawatt-hours of retail sales and 4.1 million megawatt-hours of sales
to wholesale requirements contract customers and were composed of the
following:


- --------
* Excludes power marketing sales which are also subject to FERC regulation.

  Substantially all of Virginia Power's electric service sales are currently
subject to recovery of changes in fuel costs either through fuel adjustment
factors or periodic adjustments to base rates, each of which requires prior
regulatory approval.

  Where cost-based rates are in effect, each of these jurisdictions has the
authority to disallow recovery of costs it determines to be excessive or
imprudently incurred. Various cost items may be reviewed on occasion,
including costs of constructing or modifying facilities, on-going purchases of
capacity or providing replacement power during generating unit outages.

 Virginia

  Recent Virginia proceedings related to Virginia Power's rates include the
following:

  . In June 1998, Virginia Power, the Staff of the Virginia Commission, the
    office of the Virginia Attorney General, the Virginia Committee for Fair
    Utility Rates and the Apartment and Office Building Association of
    Metropolitan Washington agreed to settle its pending rate proceedings
    before the Virginia Commission. In August 1998, the Virginia Commission
    approved the settlement with only a minor redistribution of the agreed
    rate reduction among customer classes. For provisions of the settlement,
    see Note C to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 43 of
    the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  . In August 1998, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
    Commission to modify its cogeneration and small power production rates
    under Schedule 19. An evidentiary hearing was held on this matter in
    February 1999. The Hearing Examiner's report was issued in February 2000.

  . In December 1999, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
    Commission for an increase in annual fuel revenues of approximately $104
    million. A hearing was held in February 2000.

 North Carolina

  In support of Dominion's request for approval by the North Carolina
Commission of its merger with CNG, Virginia Power and Dominion reached an
agreement with the Public Staff of the North Carolina Commission whereby
Virginia Power agreed not to request an increase in North Carolina retail
electric base rates for both its Dominion Energy business and Dominion
Delivery business until after December 31, 2005, except for certain events
that would have a significant financial impact on Virginia Power. Such events
could include any governmental action or an occurrence that is beyond Virginia
Power's control and not attributable to its fault or negligence. However, fuel
rates are still subject to change under the annual fuel cost adjustment
procedures. The North Carolina Commission approved the merger subject to
conditions agreed to by Dominion and Virginia Power in October 1999.



  In September 1999, Virginia Power filed an application with the North
Carolina Commission for a $5.2 million increase in fuel rates for its Dominion
Energy business. In December 1999, the North Carolina Commission approved the
request. This increases the annual fuel rates and charges paid by the retail
customers of North Carolina Power effective on January 1, 2000.



Sources of Power

 Dominion Energy--Utility Operations Generating Units


- --------
(a) Includes an undivided interest of 11.6 percent (208 Mw) owned by Old
    Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC).
(b) Includes an undivided interest of 50 percent (441 Mw) owned by ODEC.
(c) Returned to service in May 1999.
(d) Reflects Virginia Power's 60 percent undivided ownership interest in the
    2,100 Mw station. A 40 percent undivided interest in the facility is owned
    by Allegheny Generating Company, a subsidiary of Allegheny Energy, Inc.
    (AE).

  Virginia Power's highest one-hour integrated service area summer and all-
time peak demand was 16,216 Mw on July 6, 1999, and an all-time high one-hour
integrated winter peak demand of 15,072 Mw was reached on January 28, 2000.




Energy Output, Sources of Energy Used, Fuel Costs and Operations

  System energy output for Dominion Energy's utility operations by energy
source and the average fuel cost for each are shown below. Fuel cost is
presented in mills (one tenth of one cent) per kilowatt hour.


- --------
 (*) Excludes ODEC's 11.6 percent ownership interest in the North Anna Power
     Station.
(**) Excludes ODEC's 50 percent ownership interest in the Clover Power
     Station.

 Dominion Energy--Nuclear Operations and Fuel Supply

    . In 1999, the Dominion Energy business' four nuclear units achieved a
      combined capacity factor of 95.2 percent.

    . Both long-term contracts and spot purchases are utilized to support
      its needs for nuclear fuel. Dominion Energy continually evaluate
      worldwide market conditions in order to ensure a range of supply
      options at reasonable prices. Current agreements, inventories and
      spot market availability will support current and planned fuel supply
      needs for fuel cycles into the early 2000's. Beyond that period,
      additional fuel will be purchased as required to ensure optimum cost
      and inventory levels.

    . In March 1999, Virginia Power, along with a consortium of companies,
      was awarded a contract by DOE for mixed oxide (MOX) fuel fabrication
      and reactor irradiation services. Virginia Power has determined that
      MOX fuel can be used safely and can potentially lower fuel costs.
      Furthermore, this program will improve international security by
      reducing plutonium stockpiles. Certain plant and site/facility
      modifications must be implemented to receive and utilize MOX fuel.
      DOE will reimburse Virginia Power for all plant and site/facility
      modifications as well as other MOX fuel implementation costs.
      Virginia Power expects to provide irradiation services beginning
      September 2007.

    . DOE did not begin the acceptance of SNF in 1998 as specified in
      Virginia Power's contract with DOE. However, on-site SNF pool and dry
      container storage at the Surry and North Anna Power Stations is
      expected to be adequate for its needs until DOE begins accepting SNF.

  For details on the issues of decommissioning, see Note F on page 44 and for
nuclear insurance, see Note Q to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on
page 51 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

 Dominion Energy--Fossil Operations and Fuel Supply

  The fuel mix utilized by the Dominion Energy business' utility fossil
operations consists of coal, oil and natural gas. During 1999, the fossil
operations burned approximately 12 million tons of coal and utilized both
long-term contracts and spot purchases to support their coal needs. Dominion
Energy presently anticipates sufficient supplies of coal will be available at
reasonable prices for the next 5 to 10 years. A sufficient supply of oil and
natural gas is expected over the same period with stable prices.




  Virginia Power uses natural gas as needed throughout the year primarily for
three combined-cycle units and combustion turbine units. For winter usage at
the combined-cycle sites, gas is purchased and stored during the summer and
fall and consumed during the colder months when gas supplies may not be
available. Virginia Power has firm transportation contracts for the delivery
of gas to its Chesterfield combined-cycle units.

 Purchases and Sales of Energy

  The Dominion Energy business' utility operations purchase electricity under
long-term contracts with other suppliers to meet a portion of its own system
capacity requirements, as well as for short-term sales transactions in the
eastern United States. In addition to wholesale electric power transactions,
Virginia Power also actively participates in the purchase and sale of natural
gas in the open market.

  From the mid-1980's until the start of the 1990's, Virginia Power entered
into a number of long-term purchase contracts for electricity now associated
with the Dominion Energy business. At the end of 1999, 900 Mw of these
purchases from other utilities ended, and by the end of the first quarter of
2000, an additional 200 Mw of diversity exchange transactions will be
suspended. However, Virginia Power continues to have contracts with 56 non-
utility generators with a combined dependable summer capacity of 3,273 Mw.
During 1998, Virginia Power entered into a long-term agreement to purchase 566
Mw of electricity for sale to the wholesale market from two of three
generating units at a plant constructed in Mississippi. For information on the
financial obligations under these agreements, see Purchased Power Contracts,
Note Q to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 51 of the 1999
Annual Report to Shareholders.

  In a continuing effort to mitigate its exposure to above-market long-term
purchased power contracts, Virginia Power is evaluating its long-term
purchased power contracts and negotiating modifications to their terms,
including cancellations, where it is determined to be economically
advantageous to do so.

  In 1997, Virginia Power executed three agreements now associated with both
its Dominion Energy business and its Dominion Delivery business with ODEC
which provide for the amendment of the parties' Interconnection and Operating
Agreement (I&O Agreement). The first agreement provides for the transition
from cost-based rates for capacity and energy purchases by ODEC to market-
based rates by 2002. The second two agreements are the Service and Operating
Agreements for Network Integration Transmission Service, which unbundled the
transmission services provided to ODEC under the I&O Agreement.

 Dominion Energy--Future Sources of Power

  Both the Hoosier 400 Mw long-term purchase contract and the AEP 500 Mw long-
term purchase contract expired on December 31, 1999. Virginia Power presently
anticipates adding peaking capacity beginning in the year 2000 to meet its
anticipated annual load growth of two percent. In addition, work was completed
and the North Branch unit was returned to service in May 1999.

  In May 1999, the Virginia Commission approved the construction of four gas-
fired combustion turbine generator units in Fauquier County, Virginia. A
Petition to Appeal the approved units, filed by an opposing party in July
1999, was dismissed by the Virginia Supreme Court in December 1999; however,
the opposing party filed a request for rehearing in December 1999. The same
party appealed the air permit issued to Virginia Power by the Virginia
Department of Environmental Quality; however, such appeal was withdrawn on
January 18, 2000.

  In January 2000, Virginia Power filed an application with the Virginia
Commission to build and operate two 160 Mw combustion turbine units in
Caroline County, Virginia for additional peaking capacity. Virginia Power has
obtained the applicable zoning permits for the construction of the generators
and has applied for other required environmental permits. The Virginia
Commission has set a hearing date in May 2000 to consider this request.
Commercial operation is planned to begin in June 2001.




Dominion Delivery--Interconnections

  The Dominion Delivery business maintains major interconnections with
Carolina Power and Light Company, AEP, AE and the utilities in the
Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Power Pool. Through this major transmission
network, it has arrangements with these utilities for coordinated planning,
operation, emergency assistance and exchanges of capacity and energy.

  In June 1999, Virginia Power, together with AEP, Consumers Energy Company,
The Detroit Edison Company and First Energy Corporation, on behalf of
themselves and their public utility operating company subsidiaries (Alliance
Companies), filed with FERC applications under Sections 205 and 203 of the
Federal Power Act for approval of the proposed Alliance Regional Transmission
Organization (Alliance RTO).

  In December 1999, FERC issued an Order under Section 203 of the Federal
Power Act granting the application, subject to certain conditions and
requirements discussed in the Order and directing the Alliance Companies to
submit a compliance filing as discussed in the Order. On January 19, 2000, the
Alliance Companies filed an application seeking rehearing of certain
conditions and requirements of the Order. In February 2000, the Alliance
Companies filed amendments to the Alliance RTO documents to comply with
certain conditions and requirements of the Order.

  Also in December 1999, FERC issued Order 2000 which amended its regulations
to advance the formation of Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs). The
regulations require that each public utility that owns, operates, or controls
transmission facilities make certain filings with respect to forming and
participating in an RTO. FERC also codified minimum characteristics and
functions that a transmission entity must satisfy in order to be considered an
RTO. In January 2000, the Alliance Companies filed an application seeking
rehearing of certain provisions of the Order.

                    Dominion Energy--Non-Utility Operations

  DEI, the entity in which Dominion Energy's non-utility generation operations
are conducted, is active in the competitive electric power generation
business. Dominion Energy's non-utility operations are involved in power
projects in five states, including the Kincaid Power Station, a 1,108 Mw coal-
fired station and Elwood Energy; a 600 Mw gas fired peaking facility in
Illinois; two geothermal projects and one solar project in California; four
small hydroelectric projects in New York; a waste coal-fueled project in West
Virginia and a waste wood- and coal-fueled project in Maine.

  For information on the sale of DEI's Latin American assets, see Recent
Developments on page 1 above.

  For information regarding Dominion Energy's transition to a competitive
market for electric generation, see the Introduction to MD&A on page 26 and
FUTURE ISSUES--Dominion Energy on page 35 under MD&A of the 1999 Annual Report
to Shareholders.

  For additional information concerning foreign operation risks, see MARKET
RATE SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT--Foreign Risks on page 38 under
MD&A of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  For information regarding environmental regulation and Dominion Energy, see
Regulation--Environmental above.

                       Dominion Exploration & Production

  DEI, the entity in which the Dominion E&P business was conducted until the
completion of the CNG merger, is active in the development, exploration and
operation of oil and natural gas reserves. Dominion E&P



is involved in oil and natural gas development and exploration in Canada, the
Appalachian Basin, the Michigan Basin, the Illinois Basin, the Black Warrior
Basin, the Uinta Basin, the San Juan Basin, the Gulf Coast and the Mid-
Continent, and owns net proved oil and natural gas reserves in key regions of
the United States and Canada.

  For additional information concerning foreign operation risks, see MARKET
RATE SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT--Foreign Risks on page 38 under
MD&A of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

  For additional information on industry structure and competitive factors
relevant to the Dominion E&P business, see CNG--Gas Competition--Exploration
and Production below.

           FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

  See Note (R) to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 53 of the
1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

                               Dominion Capital

  Dominion Capital is a diversified financial services company with several
operating subsidiaries in the commercial lending, merchant banking and
residential lending business. Its principal subsidiaries are First Source
Financial, LLP, First Dominion Capital LLC and Saxon Mortgage, Inc. Dominion
Capital also owns a 46 percent interest in Cambrian Capital LLP.

  First Source Financial provides cash-flow and asset-based financing to
middle-market companies seeking to expand, recapitalize or undertake buyouts.
First Dominion Capital is an integrated merchant banking and asset management
business located in New York. Saxon Mortgage and its affiliates originate and
securitize home equity and mortgage loans to individuals. Cambrian Capital
provides financing to small and mid-sized independent oil and natural gas
producers undertaking acquisitions, refinancings and expansions.

  For additional information, see FUTURE ISSUES--Dominion Capital under MD&A
on page 36 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

                 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCING PROGRAM--
              DOMINION ENERGY, DOMINION DELIVERY AND DOMINION E&P

  See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES under MD&A on pages 29 through 32 of the
1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

                                      CNG

  CNG operates in all phases of the natural gas industry including exploration
for and production of oil and natural gas in the United States as well as
Canada. Its various retail gas subsidiaries serve approximately 1.9 million
residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers in Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Its interstate gas transmission
pipeline system services each of its distribution subsidiaries and non-
affiliated utilities and end use customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic
and the Northeast states. CNG has an equity ownership interest in a pipeline
extending from Canada to New York and New England.

Government Regulation

  CNG remains subject to regulation under the 1935 Act. CNG Transmission and
Consolidated LNG are "natural-gas companies" subject to the Natural Gas Act of
1938, as amended. CNG Transmission's interstate



transportation and storage activities are regulated under such Act and are
conducted in accordance with tariffs and service agreements on file with FERC.
CNG Power Services and CNG Retail, public utilities as defined by section 201
of the Federal Power Act, are also subject to limited FERC regulation. The
distribution subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the utility commissions
in the states within which they operate. Additionally, CNG Retail is
classified as a public utility in Pennsylvania for the limited purpose of its
participation in the Pennsylvania electric retail access programs.

  Certain CNG subsidiaries are subject to various provisions of the five
statutes which are referred to as the National Energy Act of 1978. One of
these statutes, the National Energy Conservation Policy Act, requires
utilities to offer home energy audits and other assistance to residential
customers.

  The Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (which, among other things,
authorizes the establishment and enforcement of federal pipeline safety
standards) subjects the interstate pipeline of CNG Transmission to the safety
jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation. Intrastate facilities remain
within the safety jurisdiction of the state regulatory agencies, presuming
compliance by such agencies with certain prerequisites contained in such Act.

  CNG is subject to the provisions of various federal laws dealing with the
protection of the environment. CNG Transmission and certain of the
distribution subsidiaries are subject to the Federal Clean Air Act and the
Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 which added significantly to the
existing requirements established by the Clean Air Act. In addition, the
subsidiary companies are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of
state and local governmental authorities in the areas within which the
subsidiaries have operations or facilities.

  CNG has an interest in the following foreign utility and pipeline companies:
an electric utility company in Argentina, which is subject to regulation at
the federal and provincial level; Argentine gas utility companies, which are
regulated at the federal level; pipelines in Australia, which are currently
subject to state regulation, and will become subject to national regulation
being developed by the Commonwealth and state and territorial governments.

Gas Competition

  Various regulatory and market trends have combined to increase competition
for CNG in recent years, and for the energy industry in general. These factors
include: federal and state regulatory efforts, such as FERC's various
initiatives to increase competition in both the gas and electric industries;
the overall availability of energy nationwide; competition from producers and
other sellers and brokers of gas for the retail and wholesale markets;
expansion of competition among distribution companies for industrial and
commercial customers; competition with existing and proposed pipelines and
projects to import gas from Canada and other foreign countries; and
competition with other energy forms, such as electricity, fuel oil and coal.

  FERC Order No. 636 (Order 636) significantly increased competition in the
natural gas industry. In the restructured marketplace, local gas utilities and
large-volume end users, including former pipeline sales customers, bear all
the responsibilities and risks for arranging the procurement of their gas
supplies and contracting with pipelines to transport purchases. However, as
CNG distribution subsidiaries had been managing a part of their own gas
supplies for a number of years, the transition to a more competitive
environment under Order 636 did not have a significant impact on their
operations. Storage facilities owned and operated as part of CNG distribution
and transmission operations, as well as acquired storage capacity, have become
even more important factors in gas supply management.

 Gas and Electric Industry Developments

  Gas industry competition at the retail level is receiving increased
attention from both regulators and legislators. Governments in three of the
states in which CNG operates distribution subsidiaries have enacted or
considered legislation regarding deregulation of natural gas at the retail
level. In Ohio, a 1996 law established



customer choice as a state policy in the supply of natural gas services.
Implementation of the law, which allows retail customers to obtain gas from an
array of suppliers, is under way. In Pennsylvania, legislation was enacted to
unbundle gas utility merchant functions and permit the Pennsylvania Public
Utility Commission to certify marketers, in addition to gas utilities, as
suppliers of last resort, creating competition in a traditional gas utility
function. Virginia is currently operating under a one-year unbundling pilot
program, enacted in 1999. The Virginia General Assembly is currently
considering legislation to make the program permanent.

  In addition to restructuring of the gas industry, the emerging unbundling of
services provided by electric utilities is leading toward the convergence of
the two industries to create one overall, highly competitive marketplace for a
customer's total energy needs. Regulators and legislators at the federal level
and in many states are considering, or are already implementing, initiatives
to promote increased competition in the electric industry. A major development
was the issuance in 1996 of FERC Orders 888 and 889. By requiring open access
to the national electric transmission grid, Order 888 fosters increased
competition in both the generation of electricity and the supply of bulk power
to major wholesale customers. The companion order, Order 889, addresses the
timing, information access and other administrative details associated with
FERC deregulation initiative. Congress also is considering legislation
intended to facilitate the move to competition in the electric industry.

  Although progress status varies, pro-competition electric legislation is at
least under consideration in many states. In Ohio, legislation enacted in 1999
will allow all consumers to choose their electric supplier beginning January
1, 2001. In Pennsylvania, all consumers may now choose their supplier.
Competition is also forthcoming in Virginia, where in 1999 the General
Assembly passed the "Utility Restructuring Act" which will phase in customer
choice between 2002 and 2004. Regulators and legislators in West Virginia are
also debating issues related to electric industry restructuring.

  Recent and pending regulatory actions may serve to further facilitate more
business combinations in the energy industry. FERC has streamlined its
regulatory review process regarding pending mergers.


 Distribution

  Distribution subsidiaries generally operate in long-established service
areas and have extensive facilities already in place. Growth in CNG's
traditional service areas in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia is limited
in that natural gas is already the fuel of choice for heating and for most
significant industrial applications. These areas have experienced minimal
population growth in recent years, and almost all customers have become more
energy efficient, resulting in lower gas usage per customer. In addition, the
economies of these areas, which were formerly based mainly on heavy industry,
have diversified with increased emphasis on high technology and service-
oriented firms. Growth in the retail sales market has largely been at VNG, due
to customer conversions from other energy sources and the past expansion of
its service territory (for additional information, see Recent Developments
above).

  The Clean Air Act may also provide opportunities for increased throughput in
CNG's distribution markets. CNG is promoting the use of natural gas as a means
for industrial customers and electric generators to reduce emissions. The
Clean Air Act and the Energy Policy Act of 1992 contain a number of provisions
relating to the use of alternative fuel vehicles. CNG is participating in
various programs to demonstrate the advantages and environmental benefits of
natural gas powered vehicles.

  Competition in the markets served by the distribution subsidiaries continues
to increase. As the gas industry has restructured and government regulations
have changed, a marketplace has evolved with new and traditional competitors--
the usual oil and electric companies, other gas companies, producers seeking
to gain direct access to CNG's customers, and gas brokers and dealers seeking
to supplant supplies with spot market gas. Natural gas faces price competition
with other energy forms, and certain of the distribution companies' industrial
customers have the ability to switch to fuel oil or coal if desired. In
addition, competition is increasing among local distribution companies to
provide gas sales and transportation services to commercial and residential
customers.



Currently, local distribution companies operate in what are essentially dual
markets--a traditional utility market, where a utility has an obligation to
provide service and offers a "bundled" package of services to all customers;
and a "contract" market, where obligations are defined by contract terms. In
the latter market, large customers can elect individually or in various
combinations whatever gas supplies, storage and/or transportation services
they require. CNG has responded to this competitive environment by offering a
variety of firm and interruptible services, including gas transportation,
storage, supply pooling and balancing, and brokering, to industrial and
commercial customers. Also, residential customers in certain of CNG's service
territories can choose an alternative source of gas supply.

 Transmission

  CNG Transmission operates a regional interstate pipeline system with the
principal pipeline and storage facilities located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West
Virginia and New York. CNG Transmission offers gas transportation, storage and
related services to its affiliates, as well as to utilities and end users in
the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the country.

  The changing regulatory environment has provided CNG Transmission and other
pipeline companies with a number of opportunities for expansion. CNG
Transmission has taken advantage of selected market expansion opportunities,
concentrating its efforts primarily in the Northeast and along the East Coast.
CNG Transmission's large underground storage capacity and the location of its
gridlike pipeline system as a link between the country's major gas pipelines
and large markets on the East Coast have been key factors in the success of
these expansion efforts. CNG's pipelines are part of an interconnected gas
transmission system which will continue to enable retail end users to take
advantage of the accessibility of supplies nationwide as gas utilities
unbundle services at the retail level (see Gas and Electric Industry
Developments above).

  CNG Transmission competes with domestic as well as Canadian pipeline
companies and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation,
storage and other services for customers. Also, certain end users have the
ability to switch to fuel oil or coal if desired. Although competition is
based primarily on price, the array of services that can be provided to
customers is also an important factor. The combination of capacity rights held
on certain longline pipelines, a large storage capability and the availability
of numerous receipt and delivery points along its own pipeline system enables
CNG Transmission to tailor its services to meet the individual needs of
customers.

 Exploration and Production

  Exploration and production operations are conducted by CNG Producing in
several of the major gas and oil producing basins in the United States, both
onshore and offshore. In this highly competitive business, CNG competes with a
large number of entities ranging in size from large international oil
companies with extensive financial resources to small, cash flow-driven
independent producers.

  CNG Producing faces significant competition in the bidding for federal
offshore leases and in obtaining leases and drilling rights for onshore
properties. Since CNG Producing is the operator of a number of properties, it
also faces competition in securing drilling equipment and supplies for
exploration and development.

  The marketing of gas and oil is highly competitive with price being the most
significant factor. Gas producers throughout the industry, including CNG
Producing, face a diverse and active market with purchasers seeking to balance
the advantage of spot market supplies with the security of longer-term
contracts. The growth of gas and energy marketing firms has added to the
competition for CNG Producing. When the economics warrant, CNG attempts to
sell its gas production under long-term contracts to customers such as
electric power generators and others that require a secure source of supply.
However, these arrangements represent only a portion of CNG's gas production.
Further, the deliverability of gas produced is influenced by competition for
downstream pipeline transportation capacity. CNG continues to develop
marketing strategies, contracts and arrangements to address customer needs for
intermediate and long-term gas supplies as well as swing, peaking



and other energy services. In addition, in the ordinary course of business,
CNG Producing participates in price risk management activities to manage
exposure to price risk in connection with the production and sale of natural
gas and oil.

  The exploration for and production of gas and oil is subject to various
federal and state laws and regulations which may, among other things, address
environmental matters and limit well drilling activity and volumes produced.
Changes in these laws and regulations can impact the exploration and
production operations.

Gas Supply

 General

  CNG's gas supply is obtained from various sources including: purchases from
major and independent producers in the Southwest and Midwest regions;
purchases from local producers in the Appalachian area; purchases from gas
marketers; production from Company-owned wells in the Appalachian area, the
Southwest, Midwest and offshore; and withdrawals from CNG's and third party
underground storage fields.

  Regulatory actions, economic factors, and changes in customers and their
preferences continue to reshape CNG's gas sales markets. A significant number
of industrial and commercial customers and a growing number of residential
customers currently purchase a large portion of their gas supplies from
producers and marketers, and contract with the transmission and/or
distribution subsidiaries for transportation and other services. Since these
customers are less reliant on the distribution subsidiaries for sales service,
the volume of gas that these subsidiaries must obtain to meet sales
requirements has been reduced. This trend is likely to continue as the state
regulators continue unbundling services at the retail level. With the
exception of Hope Gas, the distribution subsidiaries continue to purchase gas
supplies for their remaining merchant customers and recover the costs through
their approved rates. CNG Retail and Hope Gas (under a negotiated rate
moratorium through December 31, 2001) have the responsibility and assume the
price risk for obtaining its own gas supplies to meet customer needs.

  CNG's available gas supply in 1999 was again in a surplus position--where
available supplies exceeded sales requirements. Considering CNG's large
storage capacity, the volumes obtainable under its firm interstate pipeline
capacity and gas supply contracts, CNG-owned gas reserves, and assuming the
future availability of spot market gas, CNG believes that supplies will be
available to meet sales requirements for at least the next several years.

 Gas Purchased

  CNG has continued to purchase volumes from the accessible producing basins
using its firm capacity resources. These purchased supplies include
Appalachian resources in Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and production
from the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and offshore areas. Gas purchase contract
terms have continued to undergo transformation initiated with the removal of
CNG Transmission and other gas pipelines from the merchant function. Much of
the supply is purchased under seasonal or spot purchase agreements. While the
average term of CNG's gas purchase agreements has declined, the reliability of
supply has been adequate. The availability of supplies and heightened
competition have forged a viable market which has proven capable of satisfying
the firm delivery requirement for supplies to CNG's markets in a highly
reliable manner.

  At December 31, 1999, CNG's subsidiaries had 347.3 Bcf of firm annual
transport capacity on various pipelines to move supplies from purchase
locations to market, yielding deliveries of up to 0.9 Bcf of gas a day. These
pipelines include CNG Transmission, Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, Panhandle
Eastern Pipe Line Company, Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation, ANR
Pipeline Company, Texas Gas Transmission Corporation, Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line Corporation, Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation, Columbia Gulf
Transmission Company, Trunkline Gas Company, National Fuel Gas Supply
Corporation and Equitrans, Inc.



 Gas Storage

  CNG's underground storage facilities play an important part in balancing gas
supply with sales demand and are essential to servicing CNG's large volume of
space-heating business. In addition, storage capacity is an important element
in the effective management of both gas supply and pipeline transport
capacity. CNG operates 26 underground gas storage fields located in Ohio,
Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York. CNG owns 21 of these storage fields
and has joint-ownership with other companies in five of the fields. The total
designed capacity of the storage fields is approximately 885 Bcf. CNG's share
of the total capacity is about 669 Bcf. About one-half of the total capacity
is base gas which remains in the reservoirs at all times to provide the
primary pressure which enables the balance of the gas to be withdrawn as
needed.

  CNG Transmission operates 719 Bcf of the total designed storage capacity and
owns 503 Bcf of CNG's capacity. CNG Transmission utilizes a large portion of
its turnable capacity to provide approximately 265 Bcf of gas storage service
for others. This service is provided principally to affiliates, end users and
many of CNG Transmission's former wholesale gas sales customers who primarily
serve consumers in the Northeast.

  Two of the distribution subsidiaries, East Ohio Gas and Peoples Natural Gas,
own and operate the remaining 166 Bcf of storage capacity. In addition to
owning their own storage, these companies, as well as several of the other
subsidiaries, have access to a portion of the storage capacity operated by CNG
Transmission. CNG's distribution subsidiaries also have capacity available in
storage fields owned by others. CNG controls other acreage in the Appalachian
area suitable for the development of additional storage facilities which would
enable further expansion of capacity to meet possible future storage needs.

 Gas and Oil Producing Activities

  CNG's total gas production in 1999 amounted to 181.6 Bcf, and oil production
was 10.3 million barrels.

  CNG's gas wellhead prices in 1999 averaged $2.25 a thousand cubic feet
(Mcf). CNG's average gas wellhead prices are generally higher and less
volatile than industry spot prices since its average price reflects a mix of
longer-term contracts and the impact of price risk management activities.
However, due to market-based pricing mechanisms under many of the contracts,
CNG's gas prices generally follow industry trends. The average oil wellhead
price in 1999 was $13.19 a barrel, consistent with the general increase in
world oil prices. CNG's average oil wellhead prices also reflect the impact of
price risk management activities.

  The following table sets forth 1999 drilling activity by region:


  Of the total 95 wells drilled in 1999, 83 were successful. Of the 26
exploratory wells drilled, 16 were successful.



Gas Sales, Supply, Transportation and Storage Statistics
(Continuing operations--excludes affiliated transactions)


- --------
(a) Amount for 1999 includes total gas revenues of $190.2 million attributable
    to VNG.
(b) Demand charges and low sales volumes produce an average rate which is not
    meaningful.
(c) Includes transportation charges.



International Activities

  CNG International engages in energy-related activities outside of the United
States and holds equity investments in Australia and Latin America. During the
fourth quarter of 1999, CNG decided to focus on the United States oil and gas
markets and, accordingly, has now begun exploring the sale of CNG
International. CNG International's net assets totaled $251 million at December
31, 1999.

Rate Matters

  The regulated subsidiaries continue to seek general rate increases on a
timely basis to recover increased operating costs and to ensure that rates of
return are compatible with the cost of raising capital. In addition to general
rate increases, certain distribution companies make separate filings with
their respective regulatory commissions to reflect changes in the costs of
purchased gas. CNG's regulated subsidiaries filed no new general rate cases
during 1999, nor were there any outstanding cases requiring settlement.

CNG Properties

  CNG's main properties and investments are located in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Virginia, West Virginia, New York and from the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and
Northeast states including Canada, Argentina and Australia.

  CNG's total gross investment in property, plant and equipment was $9 billion
at December 31, 1999 (this total excludes $546.1 million of property, plant
and equipment attributable to VNG, the net assets of which were classified as
held for sale at December 31, 1999). The largest portion of this investment
(59%) is in facilities located in the Appalachian area. Another significant
portion (28%) is located in the Gulf of Mexico.

  Of the $9 billion investment, $4.6 billion is in production and gathering
systems, of which 66% is invested in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf coast and
21% in the Appalachian area. CNG's production subsidiary, CNG Producing,
accounts for $4.1 billion of the $4.6 billion investment, and CNG Transmission
and the distribution subsidiaries account for the remaining $.5 billion. In
addition to wells (58 productive and 7 dry) and acres (1,993,340 gross and
1,562,493 net developed and 862,740 gross and 499,215 net undeveloped), this
investment includes 6,660 miles of gathering lines which are located almost
entirely within the Appalachian area.

  CNG's investment in its gas distribution network includes 26,515 miles of
pipe, exclusive of service pipe, the cost of which represents 61% of the $1.7
billion invested in the total function.

  CNG's storage operation consists of 26 storage fields, 334,050 acres of
operated leaseholds, 2,067 storage wells and 798 miles of pipe. The investment
in storage properties is $711 million, including $56 million of cushion gas
stored.

  Of the $1.6 billion invested in transmission facilities, 66% represents the
cost of 6,814 miles of pipe required to move large volumes of gas throughout
CNG's operating area.

  CNG has 94 compressor stations with 484,435 installed compressor horsepower.
Some of the stations are used interchangeably for several functions.

  CNG's investment in its natural gas system is considered suitable to do all
things necessary to bring gas to the consumer. CNG's properties (including the
properties of VNG) provided the capacity to meet a record system peak day
sendout, including transportation service, of 11.4 Bcf (of which .4 Bcf was
attributable to VNG) on February 6, 1995. The system peak day sendout in 1999
was 8.0 Bcf (of which .3 Bcf was attributable to VNG) on January 5.

                              ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

  Dominion leases its principal executive offices in Richmond, Virginia. It
owns the principal executive office building of Virginia Power in Richmond,
Virginia. CNG's principal executive office building in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania is leased. Dominion's assets consist primarily of its investments
in its subsidiaries, the principal properties of which are described in Item
1. BUSINESS above under the following headings:



  . Dominion Energy--Utility Operations and Dominion Delivery (Virginia
    Power)--Sources of Power--  Dominion Energy--Utility Operations
    Generating Units

  .  Dominion Energy--Non-Utility Operations

  .  Dominion E&P

  .  CNG--CNG Properties

  Because our business segments include operations conducted in more than one
legal entity and some of our subsidiary legal entities operate in more that
one business segment, our segments share many of our facilities, particularly
office facilities.

  In connection with a portion of the Dominion Delivery business that Virginia
Power operates, right-of-way grants from the apparent owners of real estate
have been obtained for most electric lines, but underlying titles have not
been examined except for transmission lines of 69 Kv or more. Where rights of
way have not been obtained, they could be acquired from private owners by
condemnation, if necessary. Many electric lines are on publicly owned
property, as to which permission for use is generally revocable. Portions of
our transmission lines cross national parks and forests under permits
entitling the federal government to use, at specified charges, surplus
capacity in the line if any exists.

                           ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  From time to time, Dominion and its subsidiaries are alleged to be in
violation or in default under orders, statutes, rules or regulations relating
to the environment, compliance plans imposed upon or agreed to by us, or
permits issued by various local, state and federal agencies for the
construction or operation of facilities. From time to time, there may be
administrative proceedings on these matters pending. In addition, in the
normal course of business, Dominion and its subsidiaries are in involved in
various legal proceedings. Management believes that the ultimate resolution of
these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the company's
financial position, liquidity or results of operations.

  See Regulation and Rates under Virginia Power under Item 1. BUSINESS for
information on various regulatory proceedings.

  In April 1999, Virginia Power was notified by the Department of Justice of
alleged noncompliance with the EPA's oil spill prevention, control and
countermeasures (SPCC) plans and facility response plan (FRP) requirements at
one of its power stations. If, in a legal proceeding, such instances of
noncompliance are deemed to have occurred, Virginia Power may be required to
remedy any alleged deficiencies and pay civil penalties. Settlement of this
matter is currently in negotiation and is not expected to have a material
impact on Virginia Power's financial condition or results of operations.

  In August 1999, Virginia Power identified matters at certain other power
stations that the EPA might view as not in compliance with the SPCC and FRP
requirements. Virginia Power reported these matters to the EPA and in December
1999 submitted revised FRP and SPCC plans. Presently, the EPA has not assessed
any penalties against Virginia Power pending its review of Virginia Power's
disclosure information. Future resolution of these matters is not expected to
have a material impact on Virginia Power's financial condition or results of
operations.

  In November 1999 and September 1999, Virginia Power received notices from
the Attorney Generals of Connecticut and New York, respectively, of their
intention to file suit against Virginia Power for alleged violations of the
Clean Air Act. The notices question whether modifications at certain Virginia
Power generating facilities were properly permitted under the Clean Air Act
and allege that emissions from these facilities have damaged public health and
the environment in the Northeast. To date, no suits have been filed. Virginia
Power believes that it is one of a number of companies with fossil fuel power
generating stations in the southeast and central U.S. to have received such
notifications. Virginia Power believes that it has obtained the permits
necessary in connection with its generating facilities and that any suits
filed by the Attorney Generals will not have a material impact on its
financial condition or results of operations.



  On August 1990, CNG Transmission entered into a Consent Order and Agreement
with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
(DEP) in which CNG Transmission has agreed with the DEP's determination of
certain violations of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, the
Pennsylvania Clean Streams law and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder. No civil penalties have been assessed. Pursuant to the Order and
Agreement, CNG Transmission continues to perform sampling, testing and
analysis, and conducts a program of remediation at some of its Pennsylvania
facilities. Total remediation costs in connection with these sites and the
Order and Agreement are not expected to be material with respect to CNG's
financial position, results of operations or cash flows. CNG has recognized an
estimated liability amounting to $6.7 million at December 1999, for future
costs expected to be incurred to remediate or mitigate hazardous substances at
these sites and at facilities covered by the Order and Agreement.

  The DEP has proposed a penalty of $380,000 related to a hydrocarbon spill in
February 1998 at a CNG Transmission facility in Aliquippa, Beaver County,
Pennsylvania. CNG Transmission has agreed to settle the matter by contributing
$280,000 to a Supplemental Environmental Program (SEP) and $100,000 directly
to the DEP. Under the SEP, several environmental programs will be undertaken
which are intended to benefit the Conversation District of Beaver County,
Pennsylvania.

  In April 1999, CNG was served with a purported Class Action Complaint, Civil
Action No. 17114-NC, styled Gerold Garfinkel v. Raymond E. Galvin, Paul E.
Lego, Margaret A. McKenna, William S. Barrack, Jr., Steven A. Minter, J. W.
Connolly, George A. Davidson, Jr., Richard P. Simmons, and Consolidated
Natural Gas Company. The Complaint was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery
in April 1999. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief in the form of an order
to the individual Board members to sell CNG for the highest value to the
shareholders, an accounting of any damages resulting from any failure to sell
it for the highest value, a determination with respect to the reasonableness
of the break-up fee in the agreement with Dominion and other miscellaneous
relief. The Complaint also seeks an award of costs and attorneys' fees.
Several additional purported Class Action Complaints against CNG and its
directors seeking essentially the same relief have been combined with this
action. CNG has moved to dismiss. In February 2000, the plaintiff filed a
status report indicating they will circulate a stipulation for dismissal
without prejudice.

  A qui tam action (one in which the plaintiff sues for the government as well
as for itself, and gets to keep part of the recovery) was brought by Jack
Grynberg, an oil and gas entrepreneur, against a major part of the gas
industry, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries. The complaint, which
was filed in July 1997, was under seal pending Department of Justice review.
The Department of Justice declined to intervene and the seal was lifted in May
1999. CNG was served in the Western District of Louisiana in May 1999. The
suit alleges fraudulent mismeasurement of gas volumes and underreporting of
gas royalties from gas production taken from federal leases. The cases have
been removed to the Eastern District of Wyoming, where a motion to dismiss
will be filed by CNG.

  A class action was filed by Quinque Operating Co. and others against
approximately 300 defendants, including CNG and several of its subsidiaries,
in Stevens County Kansas. The complaint, which was served on CNG and its
subsidiaries in September 1999, alleged fraud, misrepresentation, conversion
and assorted other claims, in the measurement and payment of gas royalties
from privately held gas leases. The cases have been moved to the U.S. District
Court of Kansas, pending consolidation with the Grynberg case.

  CNG believes the above complaints to be without merit and believes that the
ultimate resolution of the issues will not have a material adverse effect on
CNG's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

          ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                                     None



                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT










                                    PART II

             ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

  Dominion Resources common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
at December 31, 1999 there were 101,367 common shareholders of record.
Quarterly information concerning stock prices and dividends contained on page
56 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1999 in Note W to NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

                        ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  This information contained under the caption "Selected Consolidated
Financial Data" on page 60 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.

                 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
               OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  This information contained under the caption MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS on pages 26 through
38 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1999, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein
by reference.

      ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

  This information contained under the following captions:

             MARKET RATE SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

                        .Interest Rate Risk Non-Trading Activities

                        .Foreign Exchange Risk Activities

                        .Commodity Price Risk Non-Trading Activities

                        .Commodity Price Risk Trading Activities

                        .Equity Price Risk Activities

                        .Other

  under MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS on pages 37 and 38 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, filed herein as
Exhibit 13, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

              ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  This information contained in the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages
21 through 25, NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on pages 39 through
57 and related report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent auditors,
appearing on page 58 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1999, filed herein as Exhibit 13, is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.

    ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                                     None.



                                   PART III

          ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Information regarding the directors of Dominion contained in the 2000 Proxy
Statement, under the heading The Board, File No. 1-8489, dated March 16, 2000
(the 2000 Proxy Statement), is hereby incorporated herein by reference. The
information concerning the executive officers of Dominion required by this
item is following Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

                        ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  The information regarding executive compensation contained under the heading
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION and the information regarding director compensation
contained under the heading The Board--Compensation and Other Programs in the
2000 Proxy Statement, is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

    ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  The information concerning stock ownership by directors and executive
officers is contained under the heading The Board--Share Ownership Table in
the 2000 Proxy Statement, is hereby incorporated herein by reference. There is
no person known by Dominion Resources to be the beneficial owner of more than
five percent of Dominion Resources common stock.

            ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                     None



                                    PART IV

   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a) Certain documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference and found on the pages noted.

1. Financial Statements




2. Exhibits














- --------
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

  Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated January 3, 2000, relating to the
Virginia State Corporation   Commission's final approval of the merger with
Consolidated Natural Gas Company.

  Dominion filed a report on Form 8-K, dated February 1, 2000, relating to the
completion of the merger with   Consolidated Natural Gas Company.



                                  SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.

                                                       Thos E. Capps
                                          By: _________________________________
                                              (Thos E. Capps, Vice Chairman of
                                             the Board of Directors,President,
                                                  Chief Executive Officer)
Date: March 7, 2000

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the 7th day of March, 2000.






     J.L. Trueheart






                            DOMINION RESOURCES, INC.



                                    PORTIONS
                                     OF THE
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                       TO
                                  SHAREHOLDERS

                          (Incorporated by Reference)



