
10-K405
FORM 10-K TEXTRON INC.




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
         THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000
         Commission File Number 1-5480

                                  TEXTRON INC.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

          Delaware                                              05-0315468
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

                  40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                                 (401) 421-2800
          (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                                 --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]. No [ ].
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant is $8,786,671,897 as of February 25, 2000.
          Portions of Textron's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended January 1, 2000, are incorporated by reference in Parts I and II of
this Report. Portions of Textron's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2000, are incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Report.





                                     PART I


ITEM 1.        BUSINESS OF TEXTRON

          We are a global multi-industry company with operations in four
business segments - Aircraft, Automotive, Industrial and Finance. Our products
include commercial and military helicopters, light and mid-size business jets,
plastic fuel tanks, automotive trim products, golf cars and utility vehicles,
turf-care equipment, industrial pumps and gears, engineered fastening systems
and solutions, and other industrial products. We also are a leading commercial
finance company for select markets. Our business segments include operations
that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. or its subsidiaries and others
that are separately incorporated subsidiaries.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

        This section contains a description of the business done by each of our
business segments. Financial information by business segment and geographic area
appears on pages 28, 60 and 61 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders. Those
pages of our Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

         AIRCRAFT SEGMENT.  Our Aircraft segment consists of Bell Helicopter
Textron Inc. and The Cessna Aircraft Company.

Bell Helicopter Textron
         Based on unit sales, Bell is the largest supplier of helicopters, spare
parts and helicopter-related services in the world. Since Bell was founded in
1946, it has delivered over 34,000 aircraft to military and civilian customers.
Bell currently manufactures four military and six civilian helicopter models.
Current Bell aircraft are turbine powered and range in size from the five-place
Bell Model 206 series to the Bell Model 412EP aircraft, which carries up to
fifteen people. Bell's revenues accounted for approximately 13%, 15% and 18% of
our total revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997.




         Bell supplies advanced military helicopters, spare parts and product
support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the U.S. There
are more helicopters manufactured by Bell in the inventory of the U.S.
Government than are manufactured by any other helicopter company. Bell makes
military sales to non-U.S. customers only with the concurrence of the U.S.
Government.

         Bell is also a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters
to charter, offshore, utility, corporate, police, fire, rescue and emergency
medical helicopter operators. Bell's non-U.S. Government business (including
non-U.S. military customers) typically represents 50% to 65% of its annual
sales.

         Bell is teamed with The Boeing Company in the development of the V-22
Osprey tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense. Tiltrotor aircraft
are designed to utilize the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing
aircraft. Deliveries of the V-22 to the U.S. Marine Corps began in 1999.

         In 1996, Bell and Boeing entered into a joint venture to develop a
commercial tiltrotor aircraft designated as the Model 609. This joint venture
was dissolved in February 1998, and Bell assumed control of the Model 609
program. In November 1998, Bell entered into a new joint venture with Agusta,
Italy's leading helicopter manufacturer. The new joint venture will engage in
the design, manufacture, sale and customer support of the commercial tiltrotor
aircraft, now designated as the BA609, and a new medium twin-engine helicopter,
in the 5 to 6 metric ton class, to be designated the AB139.

         Bell has developed a new light twin-engine helicopter, designated the
Model 427, in collaboration with Samsung Aerospace Industries Ltd. of South
Korea. Bell has begun manufacturing the Model 427 and will begin deliveries in
2000.

         In July 1999, we acquired Edwards & Associates, Inc., a leading company
in the manufacture, sale and assembly of helicopter customization kits and
accessories and the sale of used Bell helicopters.

         In the light and medium helicopter market segments, Bell has two major
U.S. competitors and one major European competitor. Some of its competitors are
substantially larger and more




diversified aircraft manufacturers. Bell markets its products around the world
through its own sales force and through independent representatives. Price,
financing terms, aircraft performance, reliability and product support are
significant factors in the sale of helicopters. Bell has developed the world's
largest distribution system to sell and support helicopters, serving customers
in over 120 countries.

The Cessna Aircraft Company
         Based on unit sales, Cessna is the world's largest manufacturer of
light and mid-size business jets, single engine utility turboprop aircraft, and
single engine piston aircraft. Cessna also designs, manufactures and sells
general aviation aircraft propellers and related accessories worldwide. Cessna
currently has three major aircraft product lines: Citation business jets, single
engine turboprop Caravans and Cessna single engine piston aircraft. Cessna's
revenues accounted for approximately 19%, 18% and 17% of our total revenues in
1999, 1998 and 1997.

         The family of business jets currently produced by Cessna includes the
CitationJet, the Citation Bravo, the Citation Ultra, the Citation Excel, the
Citation VII, and the Citation X. The Citation X is the world's fastest business
jet with a maximum operating speed of Mach .92. In 1999, Cessna delivered its
3,000th business jet. Cessna is developing four new Citation models, to be
called the Citation CJ1, the Citation CJ2, the Ultra Encore and the Citation
Sovereign.

         The Cessna Caravan is the world's best selling utility turboprop. More
than 1,100 Caravans have been sold by Cessna since the first Caravan was
delivered in 1985. Caravans are offered in four distinct models: the Grand
Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan Floatplane and the Caravan 675.
Caravans are used in the U.S. primarily to carry overnight express package
shipments. International uses of Caravans include commuter flights, humanitarian
flights, tourism and freight.

         Cessna re-entered the single engine piston aircraft market in 1996 and
now has five models in this product line: the four-place 172 Skyhawk, 172
Skyhawk SP and 182 Skylane, and the six-place 206 Stationair and T206 Turbo
Stationair. In 1999, Cessna delivered its 2,000th single engine piston aircraft
since production was restarted.

         Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through its own sales
force as well as through a network of authorized independent sales
representatives. Cessna has two U.S. and two




foreign major competitors for its business jet products. Cessna's aircraft
compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity, handling
characteristics, and price. Reliability and product support are significant
factors in the sale of these aircraft. The Citation family of aircraft is
supported by ten Citation Service Centers owned and operated by Cessna, along
with authorized independent service stations and centers in more than 15
countries throughout the world.

         Cessna provides its business jet operators with factory-direct customer
support offering 24 hour a day service and maintenance. Cessna Caravan and
single-engine piston customers receive product support through independently
owned service stations and 24 hour a day spare parts support through Cessna.

         Cessna's McCauley Propeller Systems unit provides new propellers
directly to original equipment manufacturers and spare parts for service and
repairs worldwide. All new Cessna single engine piston aircraft built in 1998
and 1999 used McCauley propellers.

         AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT. Our Automotive segment, organized under an umbrella
organization called Textron Automotive Company Inc., consists of Textron
Automotive Trim, CWC Textron, Kautex Textron, McCord Winn Textron and Micromatic
Textron. Some of our Automotive operations are unincorporated divisions of
Textron Inc. or its subsidiaries and others are separately incorporated
subsidiaries. These operations sell primarily to automotive original equipment
manufacturers and their suppliers operating in North America and Europe, and, to
a lesser extent, South America and Asia. Textron Automotive is headquartered in
Troy, Michigan and has over sixty manufacturing facilities located in Argentina,
Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Italy,
Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom and the U.S.

         Through its Textron Automotive Trim operations, Textron Automotive is a
leading worldwide supplier of automotive interior and exterior plastic
components and systems. Interior trim products include instrument panels, door
and sidewall trim, airbag doors, consoles, armrests, package trays and other
trim components. In addition, Textron Automotive's Trim facilities manufacture
exterior decorative components including painted bumpers, fascia, body side
moldings and claddings, fender liners, decorative wheel trim, signal lighting
and structural composite bumper beams. Many of these products are shipped
just-in-time as fully integrated




systems. Revenues of Textron Automotive Trim Operations accounted for 16%, 15%
and 16% of our total revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997.

         In May 1999, Textron Automotive formed a joint venture in Italy with
Gallino Plasturgia S.r.l., a wholly-owned subsidiary of BREED Technologies,
Inc., and Magneti Marelli S.p.A. The joint venture, Textron Breed Automotive
S.r.l., has six manufacturing and administrative facilities in Italy and
manufactures automotive plastic parts, including instrument panels, bumpers, and
exterior and interior trim parts for sale to original equipment manufacturers
such as Fiat Auto. The automotive parts manufactured by Textron Breed Automotive
will also be incorporated into interior cockpit modules assembled by a second
joint venture, Magneti Marelli Integra S.p.A, between Textron Breed Automotive
and Magneti Marelli.

         CWC Textron designs and manufactures engine camshafts and vibration
damper components for original equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket.
Through its Kaywood Products operation, CWC manufactures precision machined
parts and components for assembled camshafts.

         Kautex Textron is a leading manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel
tank systems and other blow-molded parts for original equipment manufacturers
throughout Europe, North America, South America and parts of Asia. Kautex
supplies Volkswagen in China through a joint venture with Changchun Junzilan
Industrial Group. Kautex's manufacturing plant in Puebla, Mexico supplies all of
Volkswagen's and DaimlerChrysler's plastic fuel tank requirements for their
Mexican production. Kautex produces plastic fuel tanks and metal fuel filler
systems in its North American operations.

         McCord Winn Textron manufactures seating comfort systems, windshield
and headlamp washer systems, and armatures for precision direct current motors.
McCord Winn's ASCTec (Active Surface Control Technology) seating comfort system,
which blends microprocessor-based electronics and a pneumatically-controlled air
support system, has generated broad potential automotive and consumer
applications. McCord Winn continues to expand applications of its new RITec
(Reservoir Integrated Technology) product, an innovative integration of
automotive cooling system components including the fan shroud and windshield
washer and coolant reservoirs. McCord Winn launched a RITec production program
with DaimlerChrysler in 1999, and other RITec development programs are in
progress.





         Micromatic Textron manufactures machine tools used for precision bore
and surface finishing of automobile engines. In addition, Micromatic produces
equipment for spline rolling and gear production. In April 1999, Micromatic
acquired the assets of Bates Technologies, Inc. an Indiana manufacturer of
honing products, including stones, abrasives and tooling, for the automotive and
other industries.

         More than 100 models currently contain parts made by Textron Automotive
including DaimlerChrysler's Jeep Grand Cherokee, Voyager and Caravan mini-vans;
Ford's Mondeo, Lincoln Town Car and Windstar mini-van; General Motors' Cadillac
Seville, Cadillac De Ville, Corvette, and Venture, Transport, Silhouette and
Sintra mini-vans; BMW's 5 series and 8 series; Mitsubishi's Galant; Fiat's Punto
and Bravo/Brava; and VW/Audi's Golf, Passat, Polo, T4, Beetle and A4. Textron
Automotive continues its strong position on DaimlerChrysler's LH series of cars.

          Textron Automotive's manufacturing operations are supported by a staff
of research and design specialists at its Automotive Technology Center. These
specialists have developed new processes and products, many of which are
patented, that allow Textron Automotive to offer its customers technology-driven
products and processes. In the plastics and coatings area, Textron Automotive is
a recognized leader in interior surface material (including Textron Automotive's
proprietary PVC-free thermoplastic polyurethane product line), seamless
passenger airbag door technology, structural molded instrument panel systems,
integrated modular assemblies, and molded-in-color interior and exterior
components. CWC Castings is a leader in the design and manufacture of automotive
castings. It has developed a selective austempering heat treatment process for
ductile camshafts. McCord Winn is working with original equipment manufacturers
world-wide to develop advanced technologies in areas such as "intelligent"
comfort seating systems, brushless motors and carbon commutation for flexible
fuel applications.

         In the automotive business, there is often a long lead time from the
time a supplier is selected to supply components on a new model to the time the
supplier can begin shipping production parts. During this period, the supplier
incurs engineering and development costs. The original equipment manufacturers
reimburse the supplier for these costs as incurred or in the piece prices
charged by the suppliers as the goods are shipped. In addition, automotive
original




equipment manufacturers often demand just-in-time delivery, requiring the
supplier to plan shipments in advance and hold inventory.

         Automotive original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers are the
principal customers of Textron Automotive. The loss of U.S. and Europe-based
automotive original equipment manufacturers and their first-tier suppliers would
have a material adverse effect on Textron Automotive. However, because of the
broad range of products sold to such customers, it is unlikely that they would
cease all purchases from Textron Automotive.

         Each of Textron Automotive's businesses faces competition from a number
of other manufacturers based primarily on price, quality, reputation and
delivery. Although Textron Automotive is one of the largest manufacturers
offering its range of products and services, it faces strong competition in all
of its market segments. Because of the diversity of products and services
offered, no single company is a competitor in all market segments. In certain
markets, Textron Automotive also competes for business with the original
equipment manufacturers' own operations. Textron Automotive is under continual
pressure from the original equipment manufacturers to reduce costs and prices on
an annual basis.

         INDUSTRIAL SEGMENT.  Our Industrial segment consists of Textron
Fastening Systems and Textron Industrial Products, and includes some operations
that are divisions of Textron Inc. or its subsidiaries and others that are
separately incorporated subsidiaries.

Textron Fastening Systems
         Textron Fastening Systems (TFS) manufactures and sells fasteners,
fastening systems, engineered assemblies and installation tools to the
aerospace, appliance, automotive, business equipment, telecommunications,
electronics, medical, construction, do-it-yourself and general industrial
markets. TFS sells to a wide range of customers throughout the world, including
original equipment manufacturers, distributors and consumers. Fasteners
manufactured by TFS include rivets, threaded and non-threaded fasteners,
cold-formed components, metal stampings, plastic components and assemblies that
incorporate such products. TFS provides value-added products, services and
solutions that simplify manufacturing processes and maximize efficiencies
resulting in lower total system costs to the customer. In addition, TFS provides
fastener inventory management programs supplying a full range of TFS products
and products from other manufacturers, thus offering its customers the ability
to obtain all of their fastener requirements




from a single source. Revenues of TFS accounted for approximately 18%, 18% and
17% of our total revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997.

         In April 1999, we acquired Flexalloy, Inc., one of the largest North
American providers of vendor managed inventory for fasteners and other related
products. Flexalloy provides approximately 300 customers with value-added
services complementary to TFS's existing products, including inventory
management systems, sourcing and purchasing expertise, just-in-time delivery
capabilities, fastener engineering, quality assurance testing, and kitting and
assembly services. Our existing vendor managed inventory operation, Textron
Logistics, was combined with Flexalloy to create one of the leading
non-automotive vendor managed inventory providers, with particular emphasis on
truck manufacturers and retail establishments. TFS continues to provide vendor
managed inventory services to General Motors, Ford, DaimlerChrysler and to U.S.
operations of non-U.S. auto makers.

          In May 1999, Textron Fastening Systems/Tri-Star Corp., our Taiwanese
joint venture with Taiwan-based San Shing Hardware Works Company, Ltd., Taiwan's
largest fastener manufacturer, commenced operations. We hold an 80% interest in
the joint venture company, which will initially manufacture bolts for the
automotive, electronics and appliance industries and will, thereafter, serve as
a low-cost manufacturing site for a broad range of TFS products.

         In August 1999, we acquired the assets of Aylesbury Automation Limited,
a U.K.-based manufacturer of self-piercing and cold-forged rivets, and
automation systems for a variety of applications including automotive and
electronics. Aylesbury's key product lines include self-piercing rivets sold
under the brand name Fastriv, and automation systems which include delivery
systems for installing Fastriv rivets, vibratory parts feeders, rotary tables
and elevators for use in various industrial processes, as well as standard,
automated rivet setting machines. Self-piercing rivet technology provides a
stronger solution for fastening dissimilar metals than can be achieved with
welding or traditional fasteners.

         In October 1999, we acquired InteSys Technologies, Inc., an
Arizona-based provider of plastic and metal engineered assemblies for the
telecommunications, automotive, computer/business machines, medical and general
consumer industries. InteSys provides innovative, state-of-the-art design,
plastic injection molding and assembly to customers such as Nokia, Alco, Bosch,
Hewlett Packard, IBM, Motorola and General Motors.





         In December 1999, we acquired Optical Boring Company and a 70% interest
in Cam Tooling LLC (to augment the 30% interest we already owned). Optical
Boring and Cam Tooling are engaged in the proprietary design and manufacture of
fastener tooling, specializing in critical part carbide and steel dies,
anti-crossthread dies, die assemblies, hex punch pins and segmented punch
assemblies, paint scraper forming inserts and extrusion tooling.

         Although TFS is one of the world's largest providers of fastener
products and services, there are hundreds of competitors of TFS, ranging from
small proprietorships to large multi-national companies. Competition is based
primarily on price, quality, reputation and delivery. In addition, larger
customers of fastening systems tend to procure products and services from the
larger suppliers, except for "niche" products that may be sourced from smaller
companies. Only the loss of a customer that is a major original equipment
manufacturer would have a material adverse effect on TFS. However, because of
the broad range of products sold to such customers, it is unlikely that these
customers will cease all purchases from TFS.

Textron Industrial Products
         Textron Industrial Products is comprised of the following groups:
Textron Fluid and Power Systems; Textron Golf, Turf Care and Specialty Products;
Greenlee Textron; OmniQuip Textron; and Textron Industrial Components.

         TEXTRON FLUID AND POWER SYSTEMS
         Our Fluid and Power Systems group consists of Textron Motion Control,
Textron Power Transmission, Textron Fluid Handling and Textron Systems. These
operations face competition from other manufacturers based primarily on price,
quality, product support, performance, delivery and reputation.

         Our Textron Motion Control businesses, HR Textron and David Brown
Hydraulics, design and manufacture control systems and components for aircraft,
armored vehicles and commercial applications. These businesses are in the
process of diversifying their business base by adapting aerospace technology to
servovalves used in industrial and automotive applications. Aerospace and
defense products are marketed directly to the U.S. Government, other governments
and original equipment manufacturers and, in the aftermarket, both directly and
through service centers. In June 1999, we acquired Energy Mfg. Co., Inc. and
Williams Machine




& Tool Co., each manufacturers of mobile hydraulic cylinders and hydraulic
valves, pumps and reservoirs for the truck hoist market.

         Our Textron Power Transmission businesses are Textron Industrial Gears
and David Brown Mobile Equipment Drives. Textron Industrial Gears designs and
manufactures industrial gears, double enveloping worm gear speed reducers, gear
motors and gear sets, including gear systems primarily for railroad
applications, under the David Brown, Cone Drive and Textron Industrial S.p.A.
trade names. In December 1999, we acquired AB Benzlers, a Swedish manufacturer
of helical, worm and environmental gears, speed reducers, screw jacks and
frequency inverters, and its European, Asian and Australian distribution
subsidiaries. David Brown Mobile Equipment Drives designs and manufactures
mechanical and hydraulic transmission systems. These products are sold to a
variety of customers, including original equipment manufacturers, distributors
and end-users.

         Our Textron Fluid and Handling businesses, David Brown Union Pumps and
Maag Pump Systems, design and manufacture industrial pumps for oil, gas and
petrochemical industries, and gears, gear pumps and gear systems. These products
are sold to original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end-users. In
March 1999, we acquired the Fluid Systems Division of LCI Corporation
International, which designs and manufactures polymer filtration products and
systems, including pumping products, screen changers, static mixers and heat
exchangers. This operation has been added to Maag Pump Systems. In December
1999, we acquired KSB Annecy SAS, a French manufacturer of pumps for the oil,
gas and nuclear industries that we renamed David Brown Guinard Pumps SAS.

         Textron Systems is a supplier of sensors, software and electronics, and
advanced materials for defense and industrial markets. It manufactures "smart"
weapons, airborne surveillance systems, automatic aircraft landing systems and
advanced composite materials for the U.S. Department of Defense. Current
commercial products include laser, ultrasonic and infrared sensor systems for
agricultural and industrial monitoring and control. While Textron Systems sells
most of its products directly to customers, it also sells an increasing number
of products through a growing, global network of sales representatives and
distributors.





         TEXTRON GOLF, TURF CARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
         Our Golf, Turf Care and Specialty Products group consists of E-Z-GO
Textron and Textron Turf Care and Specialty Products. E-Z-GO Textron designs,
manufactures and sells electric-powered and gasoline-powered golf cars and
multipurpose utility vehicles. Textron Turf Care and Specialty Products designs,
manufactures and sells professional turf maintenance equipment, lawn care
machinery and specialized industrial vehicles under the trade names Bob-Cat,
Brouwer, Bunton, Cushman, Jacobsen, Ransomes, Ryan and Steiner.

         The customers of our Golf, Turf Care and Specialty Products group
consist primarily of golf courses, resort communities, and commercial and
industrial users such as airports, factories and professional lawn care
services. Sales are made through a network of distributors and directly to
end-users. Many sales of golf and turf care equipment and specialty vehicles
(both at the distributor and end-user level) are financed through Textron
Financial Corporation, both for marketing purposes and as an additional source
of revenue to Textron.

         Our Golf, Turf Care and Specialty Products group has two major
competitors for golf cars, two major competitors for professional turf
maintenance equipment, and a number of smaller competitors for multipurpose
utility vehicles and professional lawn care machinery. Competition is based
primarily on price, quality, product support, performance, reliability and
reputation.

         GREENLEE TEXTRON
         Our Greenlee Textron group consists of Greenlee Textron and several
operations reporting through Greenlee, including Datacom Technologies, Fairmont
and Klauke. These businesses manufacture powered equipment, electrical test
instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, electrical connectors and
certification and verification products for information technology networks. The
products are principally used in electrical construction and maintenance,
telecommunications, electronics, plumbing, and power generation and
transmission. In October 1999, we acquired Progressive Electronics, which
designs and manufactures test and measurement equipment for the
telecommunications, electrical, electronic, voice/data, HVAC, security alarm and
irrigation industries. In December 1999, we acquired Rifocs Corp., which
manufactures fiber optic test and measurement instruments and components for
industrial, commercial and aerospace defense technologies. Our Greenlee Textron
group faces competition




from numerous other manufacturers based primarily on price, quality,
performance, reliability, delivery and reputation.

         OMNIQUIP TEXTRON
         We acquired OmniQuip International, Inc. in September 1999. OmniQuip
produces telescopic material handlers, aerial work platforms and compact
construction equipment under the trade names SkyTrak, Lull and Snorkel. It has
16 facilities located in the U.S., U.K., Australia and New Zealand employing
approximately 1,700 people. Large national equipment rental fleets account for
more than 50% of sales. Remaining sales are to end-users through independent
distributors and rental centers. End-users are usually construction
sub-contractors such as masons, framers, steel erectors and roofers. OmniQuip
competes in a fragmented market against a variety of manufacturers. Competition
is based primarily on price, quality, product support, performance, delivery and
reputation.

         TEXTRON INDUSTRIAL COMPONENTS
         Our Industrial Components group consists of Textron Lycoming, Textron
Marine & Land Systems and Turbine Engine Components Textron, each of which is a
leading company in its industry. Products of this group are sold to a wide
variety of customers, including original equipment manufacturers, the U.S. and
foreign governments, distributors and end-users. The principal competitive
factors affecting sales of the products of the Textron Industrial Components
group are price, quality, customer service, performance, reliability, reputation
and existing product base.

         Textron Lycoming is the world leader in the design, manufacture and
overhaul of reciprocating piston aircraft engines serving the world-wide general
aviation market. Textron Lycoming sells new products directly to general
aviation airframe manufacturers, including Piper Aircraft, Robinson Helicopter,
and SOCATA, a division of Aerospatiale, and is the exclusive supplier of engines
for Cessna's new product line of single-engine aircraft. Aftermarket sales are
made to the more than 180,000 existing owners of Textron Lycoming products
through a world-wide network of independently owned distributors.

         Textron Marine & Land Systems is a world leader in the design and
construction of advanced technology, specialty marine and land systems. Textron
Marine & Land Systems manufactures high performance hovercraft, such as air
cushion landing craft and search and




rescue vessels, and the Cadillac Gage family of armored vehicles and turrets,
with products operating in over 35 countries.

         Turbine Engine Components is one of the world's largest independent
suppliers of internal components for gas turbine engines for aircraft and
industrial applications. Its products include fan and compressor blades, vanes,
shafts, disks, rotors, blisks and other rotating components and the forgings
from which those products are machined. Turbine Engine Components manufacturers
its products to the specifications of its customers.

         FINANCE SEGMENT. Our Finance segment consists of Textron Financial
Corporation (TFC) and its subsidiaries. TFC is a diversified commercial finance
company with core operations in three active segments: term loans and leases,
revolving credit and specialty finance. Term lending and leasing activity is
focused in aircraft, equipment and golf finance. Revolving credit products
consist primarily of dealer inventory finance, asset-based lending and
factoring, and working capital loans. Specialty finance operations include
broadcast media finance, franchise finance, resort receivables finance and
structured investment grade transactions. TFC's other financial services and
products include transaction syndications, equipment appraisal and management,
portfolio servicing and insurance brokerage.

         TFC's financing activities are confined almost exclusively to
commercial markets and to lease and secured lending products. TFC's services are
offered primarily in North America and, to a minor extent, in South America,
Europe and Australia. However, TFC does finance Textron products, principally
Bell helicopters and Cessna aircraft, world-wide.

         In March 1999, we acquired a specialized equipment financing portfolio
from Southern Capital Corporation. In July 1999, we acquired RFC Capital, a
revolving credit finance company serving commercial customers in the
telecommunications industry. In October 1999, we acquired the aircraft and
franchise finance divisions of Green Tree Financial Servicing Corporation. In
November 1999, we acquired Litchfield Financial Corporation, a commercial
finance company specializing in financing arrangements for vacation interval
sales, land lot sales and other receivables-oriented transactions.

         The commercial finance businesses in which TFC operates are highly
competitive. TFC is subject to competition from various types of financing
institutions, including banks, leasing




companies, insurance companies, commercial finance companies and finance
companies that are subsidiaries of banking institutions. Competition within the
commercial finance industry is primarily focused on price, terms and service.

BACKLOG
        Information regarding Textron's backlog of government and commercial
orders at the end of the past two fiscal years is contained on page 37 of
Textron's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein
by reference.

        Approximately 49% of Textron's total backlog of $9.1 billion at January
1, 2000, represents orders which are not expected to be filled within the 2000
fiscal year. At January 1, 2000, approximately 98% of the total government
backlog of $2.0 billion was funded.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
        In 1999, 23% of the revenues of our Aircraft segment and 9% of the
revenues of our Industrial segment, constituting in the aggregate 11% of our
consolidated revenues, were generated by or resulted from contracts with the
U.S. Government. U.S. Government business is subject to competition, changes in
procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of
Congressional appropriations, world events, and the size and timing of programs
in which Textron may participate.

        Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated in
whole or in part at the convenience of the U.S. Government or if we are in
default. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we
normally will be entitled (up to a maximum equal to the contract price) to
reimbursement for allowable costs incurred, increased or decreased by our
expected profit or loss had the contract been completed. If, however, the U.S.
Government terminates a contract for default: (a) we will be paid an agreed-upon
amount for manufacturing materials and partially completed products accepted by
the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will not be liable for our costs
with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance
payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the
contract; and (c) we might be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S.
Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.





RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
        Information regarding our research and development expenditures is
contained on page 55 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders. This page is
incorporated herein by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
        We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world
relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents have been
of value in the past and are expected to be of value in the future. However, the
loss of any single patent or group of patents would not, in our opinion,
materially affect the conduct of our business.

         We also own trademarks, trade names and service marks that are
important to our business. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service
marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Textron, Textron Automotive
Company, Textron Automotive Trim, Textron Fastening Systems, Textron Golf, Turf
Care and Specialty Products, Textron Fluid and Power Systems, Textron Industrial
Components, Textron Marine & Land Systems, Textron Financial Corporation, AB139,
BA609, Bell Helicopter Textron, Bell Model 206, Bell Model 412EP, Bell Model
427, V-22 Osprey, The Cessna Aircraft Company, Cessna Caravan, 172 Skyhawk, 172
Skyhawk SP, 182 Skyhawk, 206 Stationair, T206 Turbo Stationair, Cessna Citation,
CitationJet, Citation Bravo, Citation Ultra, Citation Excel, Citation VII,
Citation X, Citation CJ1, Citation CJ2, Citation Encore, Citation Sovereign,
McCauley Propeller, CWC, Kautex Textron, McCord Winn Textron, Micromatic
Textron, Kaywood Products, ASCTec, RITec, Cam Tooling, Fastriv, Flexalloy,
InteSys, Optical Boring, Tri-Star Corp., Bob-Cat, Brouwer, Bunton, Cushman,
E-Z-GO, Jacobsen, Ransomes, Ryan, Steiner, AB Benzlers, Cone Drive, David Brown,
David Brown Guinard Pumps, David Brown Hydraulics, David Brown Mobile Equipment
Drives, David Brown Union Pumps, HR Textron, Maag Pump Systems, Textron
Industrial S.p.A., Textron Motion Control, Textron Power Transmission, Textron
Fluid Handling, Textron Systems, Lull, OmniQuip Textron, Sky Trak, Snorkel,
Cadillac Gage, Textron Lycoming, Datacom, Fairmont, Greenlee Textron, Klauke,
Progressive Electronics, Rifocs, RFC Capital, Litchfield Financial Corporation
and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the
foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its
subsidiaries, affiliates, or joint ventures.






ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
        Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to
protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for
environmental control facilities have not had a material effect on our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding
environmental matters is contained on pages 36 and 53 of our 1999 Annual Report
to Shareholders. These pages are incorporated by reference into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

EMPLOYEES
        At January 1, 2000, we had approximately 68,000 employees.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES
        At January 1, 2000, we operated a total of 204 plants located throughout
the U.S. and 126 plants outside the U.S. Of the total of 330 plants, we owned
171 and the balance were leased. In the aggregate, the total manufacturing space
was approximately 38 million square feet.

         In addition, we own or lease offices, warehouse and other space at
various locations throughout the U.S. and outside the U.S. We consider the
productive capacity of the plants operated by each of our business segments to
be adequate. In general, our facilities are in good condition, are considered to
be adequate for the uses to which they are being put, and are substantially in
regular use.


ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        We are subject to legal proceedings arising out of the conduct of our
business. These proceedings include claims arising from private transactions,
government contracts, product liability, and environmental, safety and health
matters. Some of these legal proceedings seek damages, fines or penalties in
substantial amounts or remediation of environmental contamination. Under federal
government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S.
Government could result in our suspension or debarment from U.S. Government
contracting for a period of time. On the basis of information presently
available, we believe that these suits and proceedings will not have a material
effect on our net income or financial condition.





ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
        No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the
last quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The following table sets forth certain information concerning our
executive officers as of March 15, 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, the
employer is Textron Inc.







                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

        Our Common Stock is traded on the New York, Chicago and Pacific Stock
Exchanges. At January 1, 2000, there were approximately 22,000 holders of
Textron Common Stock. The information on the price range of Textron's Common
Stock and dividends paid per share appearing under "Common Stock Information" on
page 62 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated by reference
into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        On December 16, 1999, we issued 432,288 shares of Textron Common Stock
in exchange for all the outstanding shares of Rifocs Corp. This issuance of
Textron Common Stock was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of
1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) of that Act because it did not involve a public
offering.

ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        The information appearing under "Selected Financial Information" on page
63 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        "Management's Discussion and Analysis," appearing on pages 29 through 38
of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

        "Quantitative Risks Measures," appearing on page 36 of our 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.







ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The consolidated financial statements and supplementary information
contained in our 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders and the Financial Statement
Schedules, as listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedules attached to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The information appearing under "Nominees for Director" and "Directors
Continuing in Office" on pages 3 through 6 of the Proxy Statement for our Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2000, is incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        Information regarding Textron's executive officers is included on page
18 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The information appearing under "Report of the Organization and
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation, Executive Compensation and
Performance Graph" on pages 11 through 21 of the Proxy Statement for our Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2000, is incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        The information appearing under "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Holders" and "Security Ownership of Management," on page 10 of the
Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26,
2000, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The information appearing under "Transactions with Management" on page
20 of the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
April 26, 2000, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 10-K

        (a)    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
        The consolidated financial statements, supplementary information and
financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying Index to Financial
Statements and Financial Statement Schedules are filed as part of this Report.

        EXHIBITS
        3.1                Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Textron as
                           filed January 29, 1998. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 3.1 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                           for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998.
        3.2                By-Laws of Textron.
        NOTE:              Exhibits 10.1 through 10.17 below are management
                           contracts or compensatory plans, contracts or
                           agreements.
        10.1A              Annual Incentive Compensation Plan For Textron
                           Employees. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
                           to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                           fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.




        10.1B              Amendment to Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for
                           Textron Employees. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form
                           10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.2A              Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key Executives.
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                           Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                           year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.2B              Amendments to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                           Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.2B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                           fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.
        10.2C              Amendment to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                           Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
                           to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                           fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.2D              Amendment to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                           Executives.
        10.3               Special Benefits for Textron Key Executives.
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                           Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                           year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.4A              Supplemental Benefits Plan For Textron Key Executives
                           with Market Square Profit Sharing Plan Schedule.
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                           Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                           year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.4B              Amendments to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.4B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                           fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.
        10.4C              Amendment to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.3 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                           the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.4D              Amendment to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives.
        10.5A              Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key
                           Executives.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.6 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                           fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.5B              Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.5B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                           fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.




        10.5C              Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                           10.4 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                           the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.5D              Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron
                           Key Executives.
        10.6A              Survivor Benefit Plan For Textron Key Executives.
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                           Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                           year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.6B              Amendment to Survivor Benefit Plan for Textron Key
                           Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
                           to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                           fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.7A              Textron 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1990 Plan").
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
                           Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                           year ended December 30, 1989.
        10.7B              First Amendment to 1990 Plan. Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's Annual
                           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                           December 28, 1991.
        10.7C              Second Amendment to 1990 Plan. Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's Annual
                           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
                           2, 1993.
        10.8A              Textron 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1994 Plan").
                           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Textron's
                           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                           ended July 2, 1994.
        10.8B              Amendment to 1994 Plan. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.9B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                           for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.
        10.8C              Amendment to 1994 Plan. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.6 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form
                           10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.
        10.8D              Amendment to 1994 Plan.
        10.9               Textron 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan
        10.10              Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and its
                           directors and executive officers. Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit A to Textron's




                           Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
                           Shareholders on April 29, 1987.
        10.11              Deferred Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
        10.12              Employment Agreement between Textron and John D.
                           Butler dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference
                           to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form
                           10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
        10.13A             Employment Agreement between Textron and Lewis B.
                           Campbell dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Textron's Quarterly
                           Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                           October 3, 1998.
        10.13B             Retention Award granted to Lewis B. Campbell on
                           December 14, 1995. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.16B to Textron's Annual Report on Form
                           10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.
        10.13C             Retention Award granted to Lewis B. Campbell on
                           June 1, 1999.
        10.14              Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary L.
                           Howell dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference
                           to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form
                           10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
        10.15              Employment Agreement between Textron and John A.
                           Janitz dated May 25, 1999.
        10.16              Employment Agreement between Textron and Wayne W.
                           Juchatz dated July 23, 1998.  Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Textron's Quarterly
                           Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                           October 3, 1998.
        10.17              Employment Agreement between Textron and Stephen L.
                           Key dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.7 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form
                           10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.
        10.18              5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 1, 1998,
                           among Textron, the Banks listed therein and Morgan
                           Guaranty Trust Company of New York as Administrative
                           Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to




                           Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                           fiscal quarter ended April 4, 1998.
        12.1               Computation of ratio of income to combined fixed
                           charges and preferred stock dividends of Textron
                           Manufacturing.
        12.2               Computation of ratio of income to combined fixed
                           charges and preferred stock dividends of Textron Inc.
                           including all majority-owned subsidiaries.
        13                 A portion (pages 28 through 63 and pages 66 through
                           68) of Textron's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.
        21                 Certain subsidiaries of Textron.  Other subsidiaries,
                           which considered in the aggregate do not constitute a
                           significant subsidiary, are omitted from such list.
        23                 Consent of Independent Auditors.
        24.1               Power of attorney.
        24.2               Certified copy of a resolution of the Board of
                           Directors of Textron.
        27                 Financial Data Schedule (filed electronically only).

        (b)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                 No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended
January 1, 2000.






                                   SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form
10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on
this 17th day of March 2000.

                                           TEXTRON INC.
                                           Registrant

                                           By:     /s/Michael D. Cahn
                                                   ------------------
                                                   Michael D. Cahn
                                                   Attorney-in-fact

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this Report has been signed below on this 17th day of March 2000, by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated:

        NAME                                         TITLE
        ----                                         -----


          *                      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Director
- ---------------------
Lewis B. Campbell


          *                      President and Chief Operating Officer, Director
- ---------------------
John A. Janitz


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
H. Jesse Arnelle






          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Teresa Beck


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
R. Stuart Dickson


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Lawrence K. Fish


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Joe T. Ford


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Paul E. Gagne


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
John D. Macomber


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Brian H. Rowe


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Sam F. Segnar






                                 Director
- ---------------------
Jean Head Sisco


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Martin D. Walker


          *                      Director
- ---------------------
Thomas B. Wheeler


          *                      Executive Vice President and
- ---------------------            Chief Financial Officer
Stephen L. Key                   (principal financial officer)


          *                      Vice President and Controller
- ---------------------            (principal accounting officer)
Richard L. Yates



*By: /s/ Michael D. Cahn
     Michael D. Cahn
     Attorney-in-fact





                                  TEXTRON INC.
                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                   ITEM 14(a)













All other schedules are omitted because the conditions requiring the filing
thereof do not exist or because the information required is included in the
financial statements and notes thereto.




                                  TEXTRON INC.

           SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

         For each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 2000


         Financial information of the Registrant is omitted because condensed
financial information of Textron Manufacturing, which includes the Registrant
and all of its majority-owned subsidiaries other than its finance subsidiaries
(Textron Finance) is shown on pages 40 through 44 of Textron's 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders. Management believes that the disclosure of financial
information on the basis of Textron Manufacturing results in a more meaningful
presentation, since this group constitutes the Registrant's basic borrowing
entity and the only restrictions on net assets of Textron's subsidiaries relate
to Textron Finance. The Registrant's investment in Textron Finance is $869
million in 1999 and $473 million in 1998.

         Textron Manufacturing received dividends of $36 million, $62 million
and $74 million from Textron Finance in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Lending agreements limit Textron Finance's net assets available for cash
dividends and other payments to Textron Manufacturing to approximately $332
million of Textron Finance's net assets of $869 million at year-end 1999.

         Textron Manufacturing's credit agreements contain provisions requiring
it to maintain a minimum level of shareholders' equity and a minimum interest
coverage ratio. For additional information concerning Textron Manufacturing's
long-term debt, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements appearing on
pages 49 and 50 of Textron's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

         For information concerning Textron-obligated Mandatorily Redeemable
Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Textron Junior
Subordinated Debt Securities, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements appearing on page 53 of Textron's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.









        EXHIBITS                         EXHIBIT INDEX


          3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Textron as filed
                    January 29, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
                    to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                    ended January 3, 1998.

          3.2       By-Laws of Textron.

          NOTE:     Exhibits 10.1 through 10.17 below are management contracts
                    or compensatory plans, contracts or agreements.

          10.1A     Annual Incentive Compensation Plan For Textron Employees.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1995.

          10.1B     Amendment to Annual Incentive Compensation Plan for Textron
                    Employees. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                    Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                    quarter ended July 3, 1999.

          10.2A     Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key Executives.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1995.

          10.2B     Amendments to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2B to
                    Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                    ended January 2, 1999.

          10.2C     Amendment to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                    Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                    quarter ended July 3, 1999.

          10.2D     Amendment to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives.




          10.3      Special Benefits for Textron Key Executives. Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Textron's Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

          10.4A     Supplemental Benefits Plan For Textron Key Executives with
                    Market Square Profit Sharing Plan Schedule. Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Textron's Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.

          10.4B     Amendments to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4B to
                    Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                    ended January 2, 1999.

          10.4C     Amendment to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
                    Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                    quarter ended July 3, 1999.

          10.4D     Amendment to Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives.

          10.5A     Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key Executives.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Textron's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1995.

          10.5B     Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5B to
                    Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                    ended January 2, 1999.

          10.5C     Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                    Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                    quarter ended July 3, 1999.

          10.5D     Amendment to Supplemental Retirement Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives.

          10.6A     Survivor Benefit Plan For Textron Key Executives.
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Textron's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1995.

          10.6B     Amendment to Survivor Benefit Plan for Textron Key
                    Executives. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
                    Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                    quarter ended July 3, 1999.




          10.7A     Textron 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1990 Plan").
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Textron's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1989.

          10.7B     First Amendment to 1990 Plan. Incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991.

          10.7C     Second Amendment to 1990 Plan. Incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.7(c) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

          10.8A     Textron 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1994 Plan").
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Textron's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                    July 2, 1994.

          10.8B     Amendment to 1994 Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.9B to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                    year ended January 2, 1999.

          10.8C     Amendment to 1994 Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.6 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended July 3, 1999.

          10.8D     Amendment to 1994 Plan.

          10.9      Textron 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan

          10.10     Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and its
                    directors and executive officers. Incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit A to Textron's Proxy Statement for its Annual
                    Meeting of Shareholders on April 29, 1987.

          10.11     Deferred Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors

          10.12     Employment Agreement between Textron and John D. Butler
                    dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.2 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.

          10.13A    Employment Agreement between Textron and Lewis B. Campbell
                    dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.3 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.

          10.13B    Retention Award granted to Lewis B. Campbell on December 14,
                    1995. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16B to
                    Textron's




                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                    December 30, 1995.

          10.13C    Retention Award granted to Lewis B. Campbell on June 1,
                    1999.

          10.14     Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary L. Howell
                    dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.5 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.

          10.15     Employment Agreement between Textron and John A. Janitz
                    dated May 25, 1999.

          10.16     Employment Agreement between Textron and Wayne W. Juchatz
                    dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.6 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.

          10.17     Employment Agreement between Textron and Stephen L. Key
                    dated July 23, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.7 to Textron's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended October 3, 1998.

          10.18     5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 1, 1998, among
                    Textron, the Banks listed therein and Morgan Guaranty Trust
                    Company of New York as Administrative Agent. Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 4, 1998.

          12.1      Computation of ratio of income to combined fixed charges and
                    preferred stock dividends of Textron Manufacturing.

          12.2      Computation of ratio of income to combined fixed charges and
                    preferred stock dividends of Textron Inc. including all
                    majority-owned subsidiaries.

          13        A portion (pages 28 through 63 and pages 66 through 68) of
                    Textron's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

          21        Certain subsidiaries of Textron. Other subsidiaries, which
                    considered in the aggregate do not constitute a significant
                    subsidiary, are omitted from such list.

          23        Consent of Independent Auditors.

          24.1      Power of attorney.

          24.2      Certified copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors of
                    Textron.









          27        Financial Data Schedule (filed electronically only).





