
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


  ___________________________________________________

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                               WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
     
                           Form 10-K

          [X]            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                         THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         For the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994             

                         Commission File Number 1-5480


                                                                          


                  Textron Inc.
                            (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
                                               ______________
Delaware                                       05-0315468
(State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                 Identification No.)
               40 Westminster Street, Providence, R.I. 02903
                             (401) 421-2800
               Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                            ______________

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                                       
Each Exchange on
Title of Class                                              
 Registered       

Common Stock - par value $.125; (88,605,596 shares   New York Stock Exchange
      outstanding at March 4, 1994)                 Pacific Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                     Chicago Stock Exchange

$2.08 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,       New York Stock Exchange
      Series A - no par value                                                 

$1.40 Convertible Preferred Dividend Stock, Series B  New York Stock Exchange
      (preferred only as to dividends) - no par value                    

                             
 9.25% Debentures due March 15, 2016                                   
 9.25% Subordinated Debentures due April 1, 2017   New York Stock Exchange
 8 % Debentures due July 1, 2022

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by 
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 
12 months (or for such shorter 
period that the  registrant was required to file such reports)  and (2) has 
been subject to such filing  
requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes  X .      No     .
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not 
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 
knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 
10-K.  [  ]
          The aggregate market value of voting  stock held by non-affiliates 
of the registrant is  $5,140,665,797 
as of March 4, 1994.
          Portions  of Textron's  Annual  Report  to Shareholders  for  the 
fiscal  year  ended  January  1, 1994 
are incorporated by  reference in Parts I and II of  this Report.   Portions 
of Textron's  Proxy Statement  for 
its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 27, 1994 are incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Report.
        __________________________________________________











                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS OF TEXTRON*

          Textron is a multi-industry company which at the end of 1993 re-
aligned its operations into six segments in two business sectors - Manufactur-
ing and Financial Services.  The Manufacturing sector consists of four busi-
ness segments - Aircraft, Automotive, Industrial, and Systems and Components.  
The business segments of the Financial Services sector are Finance and Paul 
Revere.  Information concerning each sector and the Divisions within each sec-
tor is set forth or referred to below.

          Textron's focus on selected businesses and markets is intended to 
achieve balanced diversification in order to afford protection against economic 
cycles and to provide a means to concentrate on growth opportunities and tech-
nologies in these businesses.

          Each Textron Division conducts its business under its own name with 
its own organization.  Each Division's management has direct responsibility for 
its own operations, and for achieving its business plan as accepted after re-
view with Textron's management.  Centralized coordination and control to assure 
overall standards and performance are provided by Textron's executive staff 
from its corporate office at 40 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode 
Island 02903; its telephone number is (401) 421-2800.
____________________

* Reference herein to "Textron" includes Textron Inc., its divisions and subsid-
iaries.   A Textron "Division" is a management-designated operating unit which 
may be comprised of an unincorporated division of Textron, a subsidiary of 
Textron, or an unincorporated division of a subsidiary.



     Financial information by business segment and geographic area is 
incorporated herein by reference to pages 33, 59 and 60 of Textron's 1993 
Annual Report to Shareholders.

MANUFACTURING

     Information regarding the Manufacturing sector is contained on pages 2, 3, 
7 through 19, 24, 25, 34 through 36, 45, 46 and 67 through 69 of Textron's 1993 
Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

     The Aircraft segment consists of Bell Helicopter and Cessna.  Bell 
Helicopter is among the largest domestic manufacturers of light and medium 
helicopters for military and civil uses, although certain of its competitors 
are substantially larger and more diversified aircraft manufacturers. In the 
light and medium helicopter market, Bell Helicopter has two major U.S. 
competitors and one major European competitor.  Bell Helicopter markets its 
products worldwide through its own sales force as well as through independent 
representatives.  Price, financing terms, aircraft performance and product 
support are significant factors in the sale of helicopters.  Revenues of Bell 
Helicopter accounted for approximately 13%, 11% and 16% of Textron's total 
revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  

     Cessna is the world's largest designer and manufacturer of light and 
mid-sized business jets and single-engined utility turboprop aircraft.  
Cessna markets its products worldwide primarily through its own sales force as 
well as through independent representatives.  Cessna has five major 
competitors, two of which are located in the U.S. and three overseas.  
Cessna's fanjets and turboprops compete with other aircraft that are 
comparable in size, speed, range, capacity, handling characteristics and price.

     The Divisions of the Automotive segment supply products primarily to 
automotive original equipment manufacturers.  Products are marketed through the 
sales force of each Division.  In general, these Divisions operate in markets 



that are very competitive.  These Divisions compete in their markets on the 
basis of price, product quality and delivery.

     The Divisions of the Industrial segment sell products to the industrial 
and consumer markets.  Products are marketed through the sales force of each 
Division, and, where applicable, independent distributors, sales 
representatives and retailers.  In general, these Divisions operate in markets 
that are very competitive.  In varying degrees, these Divisions compete in 
their markets on the basis of price, product quality and performance, brand 
image, service and delivery.  In 1993, Textron's Townsend Division was merged 
into the Camcar Division.

     Textron Lycoming Turbine Engine, the major line of business in the Systems 
and Components segment, is a supplier of propulsion systems and related 
products, with six major competitors in the gas turbine engine market.  These 
competitors are based in the United States, Canada and Europe.  Several of its 
competitors are substantially larger than Textron Lycoming Turbine Engine.  All 
Divisions of the Systems and Components segment are subject to keen 
competition.  Each Division markets its products through its own sales force 
and, where applicable, independent representatives.  The principal competitive 
factors are price, reliability, product performance and, where applicable, 
product support.  The Cadillac Gage Combat Vehicle Operations and the Cadillac 
Gage Control Systems Operations are being transferred to the Textron Marine
and Land Systems Division and the HR Textron Division, respectively.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

     Information regarding the Financial Services sector is contained on pages 
3, 7, 20 through 22, 31, 32, 36, 37, 46, 63, 64 and 70 of Textron's 1993 Annual 
Report to Shareholders, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

     Products of the Financial Services sector are marketed through 
company-owned sales offices and, where applicable, independent brokers.  The 
insurance and consumer and commercial finance businesses are highly competitive 
and subject to regulation by various government authorities.



     The Finance segment consists of Avco Financial Services and Textron 
Financial Corporation.  Avco Financial Services competes with other consumer 
finance companies as well as companies which finance the sale of their own 
merchandise or the merchandise of others, industrial banks, and the personal 
loan departments of commercial banks and credit unions.  Revenues of Avco 
Financial Services accounted for approximately 15%, 16% and 17% of Textron's 
total revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  Textron Financial 
Corporation competes with other commercial finance companies as well as 
institutional lenders, primarily banks.  Price and service are the principal 
competitive factors in the Finance segment.

     Paul Revere is the leading provider of individual non-cancellable 
disability insurance in North America.  Paul Revere competes with many other 
insurance companies offering similar products.  Insurance companies compete on 
the basis of many factors including financial strength, pricing and other terms 
and conditions of products, commission structure, perceived stability of the 
insurer, claims paying ratings, service, name recognition and reputation.

BACKLOG

     Information regarding Textron's backlog of government and commercial 
orders by business segment at the end of the past two fiscal years is contained 
on page 33 of Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, which page is 
incorporated herein by reference.

     Approximately 47% of Textron's total backlog at January 1, 1994 represents 
orders which are not expected to be filled within the 1994 fiscal year.  Approx-
imately 76% of the total backlog is funded.


GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

     In 1993, 23% and 43% of the revenues of the Aircraft and Systems and Compo-
nents segments, respectively, were generated by or resulted from contracts 



with the United States Government.  U.S. Government business is subject to 
competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing 
availability of Congressional appropriations, world events, and the size and 
timing of programs in which Textron may participate.   A substantial portion of 
Textron's government contracts are fixed-price or fixed-price incentive con-
tracts, including some which are fixed-price incentive development contracts.   
Contracts which contain incentive pricing terms provide for upward or downward 
adjustments in the prices paid by the U.S. Government thereunder upon comple-
tion of the contract or any agreed portion thereof, based on cost or other 
performance factors.  U.S. Government contracts generally may be terminated in 
whole or in part at the convenience of the U.S. Government or if the contractor 
is in default.  Upon termination of a contract for the convenience of the U.S. 
Government, the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable 
costs incurred and an allowance for profit (up to a maximum equal to the con-
tract price) or adjustment for loss if the contractor would have incurred a 
loss had the entire contract been completed.  If, however, a contract is termi-
nated for default:  (i) the contractor is paid such amount as may be agreed 
upon for manufacturing materials and partially completed products accepted by 
the U.S. Government; (ii) the U.S. Government is not liable for the contrac-
tor's costs with respect to unaccepted items and is entitled to repayment of 
advance payments and progress payments, if any, related to the terminated por-
tions of the contract; and (iii) the contractor may be liable for excess costs 
incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another 
source.  Additional information regarding defense expenditures is contained on 
pages 34 through 36 of Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, which 
pages are incorporated herein by reference.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Information regarding Textron's research and development expenditures is 
contained on pages 45 and 53 of Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, 
which pages are incorporated herein by reference.



PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

     Textron owns, or is licensed under, a number of patents and trademarks 
throughout the world relating to methods of manufacturing and products.  Pat-
ents and trademarks have been of value in the past and are expected to be of 
value in the future; however, the loss of any single patent or group of patents 
would not, in the opinion of Textron, materially affect the conduct of its 
business. 

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

     Textron's operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar 
businesses, are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect 
the environment.   Compliance with such laws has not had, and is not expected 
to have, a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive 
position of Textron.  Expenditures for environmental control facilities have 
not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on capital expendi-
tures, earnings or the competitive position of Textron.  Additional information 
regarding environmental matters is contained on pages 30, 45 and 59 of 
Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages are incorporated 
herein by reference.

EMPLOYEES

     At January 1, 1994, Textron had approximately 56,000 employees.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     At January 1, 1994, Textron operated a total of 146 plants located through-
out the United States and 6 plants outside the United States.  Of the total of 
152 plants, Textron owned 112 and the balance was leased.  In the aggregate, 
the total manufacturing space was approximately 27 million square feet.



     In addition, Textron owns or leases offices, warehouse and other space at 
various locations throughout the United States and outside the United States.  
Textron also owns or leases such machinery and equipment as is necessary in the 
operation of its Divisions.  Textron considers the productive capacity of the 
plants operated by each of its business segments to be adequate.  In general, 
the plants and machinery are in good condition, are considered to be adequate 
for the uses to which they are being put, and are substantially in regular use. 

     A material portion of the plant, machinery and equipment used by Textron 
Lycoming Turbine Engine at Stratford, Connecticut, is owned by the U.S. Govern-
ment and is provided pursuant to facilities contracts which authorize the Divi-
sion to use it without charge in the performance of government contracts. In 
addition, use is permitted under certain limited circumstances in the perfor-
mance of commercial work if governmental approval is obtained and appropriate 
rentals are paid to the government.  These facilities contracts are terminable 
by the U.S. Government at any time, but Textron does not anticipate that any 
such termination will occur so long as the facilities are required in the per-
formance of material U.S. Government contracts, or that it will be prevented 
from using the facilities for commercial work so long as all governmental re-
quirements are met.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In early 1989, Textron acquired Avdel plc, a fastening systems manufactur-
ing business based in England, the total cost of which approximated $250 mil-
lion.   In February 1989, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") challenged 
the acquisition under antitrust law.  On October 28, 1993, the FTC conditional-
ly approved Textron's offer to settle the matter by licensing a new competitor 
for Avdel's MONOBOLT non-aerospace blind rivet and selling the licensee cer-
tain manufacturing equipment of Avdel's U.S. operation.  The settlement and 
approval of the license/divestiture are expected to become effective in 1994.  
Until the settlement becomes effective, Textron is precluded from consolidating 
in its financial statements the results of operations of Avdel and is therefore 
carrying its investment in Avdel at cost.



     Since 1979, Textron has been engaged in arbitration in Switzerland with 
the Government of Iran concerning conflicting claims and counterclaims arising 
out of a 1975 helicopter coproduction agreement between its Bell Helicopter 
Division and the Government of Iran.  The contract was terminated in 1978 and 
the arbitration started in 1979.  Bell Helicopter and the Government of Iran 
are currently engaged in settlement discussions.  In the opinion of management 
any costs incurred by Bell associated with the arbitration in excess of amounts 
previously reserved will not be material to Textron's net income or financial 
condition.

     On October 5, 1993, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ("Ohio EPA") 
issued a proposed consent order concerning compliance issues related to air 
emissions from Textron's Randall Division plant in Wilmington, Ohio.  The Ohio 
EPA is seeking a civil penalty of $579,000.  Textron is negotiating with the 
Ohio EPA to resolve the matter.

     In addition, there are pending or threatened against Textron and its sub-
sidiaries lawsuits and other proceedings, some of which allege violations of 
federal government procurement regulations, involve environmental matters, or 
are or purport to be class actions.  Among these suits and proceedings are some 
which seek compensatory, treble or punitive damages in substantial amounts; 
fines, penalties or restitution; the cleanup of allegedly hazardous wastes; or, 
under federal government procurement regulations, could result in suspension or 
debarment of Textron or its subsidiaries from U.S. Government contracting for a 
period of time.  These suits and proceedings are being defended or contested on 
behalf of Textron and its subsidiaries. 

     On the basis of information presently available, Textron believes that any 
liability for the suits and proceedings mentioned above, or the impact of the 
application of relevant government regulations, would not have a material ef-
fect on Textron's net income or financial condition.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

     No matters were submitted to a vote of Textron's security holders during 
the last quarter of the period covered by this Report.

                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The following table sets forth certain information concerning the executive 
officers of Textron as of March 15, 1994.  Unless otherwise indicated, the 
employer is Textron.

    Name                        Age                   Position 

James F. Hardymon               59        Chairman since 1993, and Chief Execu-
                                          tive Officer since 1992; formerly 
                                          President, 1989 through 1993, and 
                                          Chief Operating Officer, 1989 through 
                                          1991; Director since 1989. 


                       CORPORATE OPERATING MANAGEMENT

Lewis B. Campbell               47        President and Chief Operating Officer 
                                          since January 1994; formerly Execu-
                                          tive Vice President and Chief Operat-
                                          ing Officer, 1992 to 1993; Vice Presi-
                                          dent of General Motors (1988 to 1992) 
                                          and General Manager of its GMC 
                                          Truck Division (1991 to 1992), and 
                                          General Manager of the Flint Automo-
                                          tive Division Buick - Oldsmobile 
                                          - Cadillac Group (1988 to 1991); 
                                          Director since January 1994.



Gary E. Atwell                  50        Group Vice President since 1986.

Richard H. Campbell             58        Group Vice President since 1992; 
                                          formerly Group Vice President and 
                                          President - Hardware Home Improvement 
                                          Group of Black & Decker Corporation, 
                                          1989 to 1992.

Herbert L. Henkel               45        Group Vice President since October 
                                          1993; formerly President of the 
                                          Greenlee Textron Division, 1987 to 
                                          October 1993.

Fred L. Hubacker                49        Group Vice President and President 
                                          Textron Acustar Plastics Inc. since 
                                          May 1993; formerly Group Controller, 
                                          Procurement and Supply Operations 
                                          (1991 to April 1993) and Vice Presi-
                                          dent Finance, Acustar Inc. unit (1989 
                                          to 1991) of Chrysler Corporation.

Derek Plummer                   60        Group Vice President since 1986.

Terry D. Stinson                52        Group Vice President since 1991; 
                                          formerly President of the Hamilton 
                                          Standard Division of United Technolo-
                                          gies Corporation, 1986 to 1991.

Richard A. Watson               49        Group Vice President since 1990; 
                                          formerly Vice President Textron and 
                                          President Textron Investment Manage-
                                          ment Company Inc., 1986 to 1990. 



                          CORPORATE STAFF MANAGEMENT

Thomas P. Hollowell             50        Executive Vice President Corporate 
                                          Development since 1992; formerly 
                                          Managing Director of Bowles Hollowell 
                                          Conner & Co., an investment banking 
                                          firm, 1975 to 1992.

Richard A. McWhirter            59        Executive Vice President and Chief 
                                          Financial Officer since 1993; former-
                                          ly Senior Vice President and Secre-
                                          tary, 1991 to 1993; Senior Vice Presi-
                                          dent - Insurance and Environmental 
                                          Affairs, 1988 to 1991.

Thomas D. Soutter               59        Executive Vice President and General 
                                          Counsel since 1985.

William F. Wayland              58        Executive Vice President Administra-
                                          tion and Chief Human Resources Offi-
                                          cer since 1993; formerly Executive 
                                          Vice President - Human Resources, 
                                          1989 to 1993.

Frank Gulden                    57        Senior Vice President - Human Resourc-
                                          es, since December 1993; formerly 
                                          Group Vice President, 1990 to Decem-
                                          ber 1993; Vice President North and 
                                          South America, Fastening Systems 
                                          Group of Emhart Corporation, 1989 to 
                                          1990.

Mary L. Howell                  41        Senior Vice President Government and 
                                          International Relations since 1993; 



                                          formerly Vice President - Government 
                                          Affairs, 1985 to 1993. 

Edward C. Arditte               38        Vice President - Investor Relations 
                                          and Risk Management since 1993; for-
                                          merly Vice President - Investor Rela-
                                          tions, 1991 to 1993; Director - Inves-
                                          tor Relations, 1990 to 1991; Assis-
                                          tant Treasurer, 1986 to 1990.

Raymond W. Caine, Jr.           61        Vice President - Corporate Communica-
                                          tions since 1980.

Robert B. Clendenen             51        Vice President - Audit and Business 
                                          Ethics since 1988.

Brian T. Downing                46        Vice President and Treasurer since 
                                          1986.

Arnold M. Friedman              51        Vice President and Deputy General 
                                          Counsel since 1984.

Gregory E. Hudson               47        Vice President - Taxes since 1987.

William P. Janovitz             51        Vice President and Controller since 
                                          1983.

Cecil W. Labhart                61        Vice President - Information Systems 
                                          Services since 1986.

Karen A. Quinn-Quintin          36        Vice President and Secretary since 
                                          1993; formerly Director, Corporate 
                                          Office Human Resources, 1992 to 1993; 
                                          Manager, Corporate Office Personnel, 


                                          1991 to 1992; Manager, Group Insur-
                                          ance, 1989 to 1991. 

No family relationship exists between any of the individuals named above. 

                                     PART II
ITEM 5.  MARKETS FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON 
         EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Textron's common stock is traded on the New York, Chicago and Pacific 
Stock Exchanges.   Additional information regarding "Markets for the Regis-
trant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters" is contained on pages 
65, 66 and on the inside back cover of Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Share-
holders, which pages are incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Information regarding "Selected Financial Data" is contained in the Five 
Year Summary on page 66 of Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, which 
page is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations" is contained in the Financial Review on pages 29 through 37 of 
Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages are incorporated 
herein by reference.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The consolidated financial statements and the supplementary information 
listed in the accompanying index to financial statements and financial state-
ment schedules are filed as part of this Report.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
         ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding Textron's directors is contained on pages 2 through 
6 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on 
April 27, 1994, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

     Information regarding Textron's executive officers is included on pages 10 
through 14 of Part I of this Report.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information regarding "Executive Compensation" is contained on pages 15  
through 20 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the 1994 Annual Meeting of Share-
holders on April 27, 1994, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
          BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information regarding "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Holders" 
is contained on page 9, and information regarding "Security Ownership of Manage-
ment" is contained on pages 9 through 11, of Textron's Proxy Statement for the 
1994 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 27, 1994, which pages are incorpo-
rated herein by reference.



ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is 
contained on page 20 of Textron's Proxy Statement for the 1994 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders on April 27, 1994, which page is incorporated herein by refer-
ence.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
          SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (A)  Financial Statements and Schedules

     The consolidated financial statements, supplementary information and finan-
cial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index to financial state-
ments and financial statement schedules are filed as part of this Report.

Exhibits

3.1         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Textron as filed 
            March 24, 1988.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            January 2, 1988. 

3.2         By-Laws of Textron, restated December 10, 1992.  Incorporated 
            by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 
            10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

NOTE:       Exhibits 10.1 through 10.19  below are management contracts or 
            compensatory plans, contracts or agreements.

10.1A       Supplemental Benefits Plan for Textron Key Executives effec-
            tive from and after December 16, 1987 ("Supplemental Plan").  



            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Textron's Annual 
            Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1988.

10.1B       Market Square Profit Sharing Plan Schedule to Supplemental 
            Plan effective as of January 1, 1989, amended and restated as 
            of December 10, 1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.1(b) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
            year ended December 28, 1991.

10.1C       Amendment to Market Square Profit Sharing Plan Schedule to 
            Supplemental Plan effective December 30, 1992.  Incorporated 
            by reference to Exhibit 10.1(f) to Textron's Annual Report on 
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.1D       Ex-Cell-O Salaried Retirement Plan Schedule to Supplemental 
            Plan effective as of July 1, 1989, amended and restated as of 
            July 1, 1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(c) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 28, 1991.

10.1E       First Amendment to Supplemental Plan effective as of April 25, 
            1990.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(d) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 29, 1990.

10.1F       Second Amendment to Supplemental Plan effective as of Septem-
            ber 25, 1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(e) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 28, 1991.

10.2        Survivor Benefit Plan for Textron Key Executives effective 
            from and after December 16, 1987.  Incorporated by reference 
            to Exhibit 10.2 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
            the fiscal year ended January 2, 1988.



10.3A       Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key Executives effective from 
            and after December 16, 1987.  Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.3 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
            fiscal year ended January 2, 1988.

10.3B       First Amendment to Deferred Income Plan for Textron Key Execu-
            tives effective as of October 27, 1992.  Incorporated by refer-
            ence to Exhibit 10.3(b) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 
            10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.4A       Corporate Office Annual Incentive Compensation Plan executed 
            on December 23, 1987.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.4 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
            year ended January 2, 1988.

10.4B       First Amendment to Corporate Office Annual Incentive Compensa-
            tion Plan effective as of December 10, 1992.  Incorporated by 
            reference to Exhibit 10.4(b) to Textron's Annual Report on 
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.5A       Textron 1982 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1982 Plan").  Incorpo-
            rated by reference to Exhibit 10.5(a) to Textron's Annual 
            Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
            1988.

10.5B       First Amendment to 1982 Plan effective as of 
            February 25, 1987.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.5(b) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
            year ended January 3, 1987.

10.5C       Second Amendment to 1982 Plan effective as of December 16, 
            1987.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5(c) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            January 2, 1988.



10.6A       Textron 1987 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1987 Plan") effective 
            as of February 25, 1987, amended and restated as of April 27, 
            1988.   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Textron's 
            Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 
            30, 1989.

10.6B       First Amendment to 1987 Plan effective as of September 25, 
            1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6(b) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 28, 1991.

10.7A       Textron 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("1990 Plan") effective 
            as of April 25, 1990.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.7 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
            year ended December 30, 1989.

10.7B       First Amendment to 1990 Plan effective as of September 25, 
            1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7(b) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 28, 1991.

10.7C       Second Amendment to 1990 Plan effective as of December 10, 
            1992.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7(c) to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            January 2, 1993.

10.8        Employment Agreement between Textron and James F. Hardymon 
            dated November 24, 1989 ("Employment Agreement").  Incorporat-
            ed by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual Report on 
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.

10.9        Employment Agreement between Textron and Lewis B. Campbell 
            dated as of September 22, 1992.  Incorporated by reference to 



            Exhibit 10.9 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
            fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.10       Employment Agreement between Textron and Thomas P. Hollowell 
            dated as of January 1, 1993.  Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.10 to Textron's Annual Report Form 10-K for the 
            fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.11       Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary L. Howell dated 
            as of May 4, 1993.

10.12       Employment Agreement between Textron and Richard A. McWhirter 
            dated as of February 16, 1993.  Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit 10.11 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
            fiscal year ended January 2, 1993.

10.13       Employment Agreement between Textron and Thomas D. Soutter 
            dated as of March 1, 1985, as amended by Amendment to Employ-
            ment Agreement dated as of February 1, 1987 and Amendment to 
            Employment Agreement dated as of February 1, 1988.  Incorporat-
            ed by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Textron's Annual Report on 
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1989.
 
10.14       Employment Agreement between Textron and William F. Wayland 
            dated January 1, 1989.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.12 to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
            year ended December 30, 1989.

10.15       Form of Indemnity Agreement between Textron and its directors 
            and executive officers.  Incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit A to Textron's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting 
            of Shareholders on April 29, 1987.



10.16       Textron Executive Severance Plan effective December 16, 1987.  
            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Textron's Annual 
            Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1988.

10.17A      Pension Plan for Directors originally effective as of March 8, 
            1986, as amended by a First Amendment effective as of August 
            26, 1987.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to 
            Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
            December 31, 1988.

10.17B      Second Amendment to Pension Plan for Directors effective as of 
            October 1, 1990.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
            10.16(b) to Textron's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fis-
            cal year ended December 29, 1990.

10.18       Deferred Income Plan for Textron Directors effective May 26, 
            1993.
  
10.19       Additional Benefits for certain executive officers.  Incorpo-
            rated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Textron's Annual Report 
            on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1988.

10.20A      Credit Agreement dated as of November 1, 1993 among Textron, 
            the Lenders listed therein and Bankers Trust Company as Admin-
            istrative Agent.

10.20B      Line of Credit dated as of November 1, 1993 among Textron, the 
            Lenders listed therein and Bankers Trust Company as Administra-
            tive Agent.

12.1        Computation of ratio of income to fixed charges of the Textron 
            Parent Company Borrowing Group.  



12.2        Computation of ratio of income to fixed charges of Textron 
            Inc. including all majority-owned subsidiaries. 

13          Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders.  Except for 
            pages or items specifically incorporated by reference herein, 
            Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders is furnished for 
            the information of the Commission and is not filed as part of 
            this Report.

21          Certain subsidiaries of Textron.  Other subsidiaries, which 
            considered in the aggregate do not constitute a significant 
            subsidiary, are omitted from such list.

23          Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1        Power of attorney.

24.2        Certified copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors of 
            Textron. 

(B)   Reports on Form 8-K
      No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the 
period covered by this Report.
                           
                                SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto 
duly authorized on this 28th day of March, 1994.



TEXTRON INC.
Registrant

By:       S/Arnold M. Friedman
          Arnold M. Friedman
          Attorney-in-fact

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below on this 28th day of March, 1994, by the following 
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated:

         NAME                                TITLE

           *                              Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
James F. Hardymon                         Director (principal executive officer)

           *                              President and Chief Operating
Lewis B. Campbell                         Officer, Director

           *                              Director
H. Jesse Arnelle

           *                              Director
Joseph R. Carter

           *                              Director
R. Stuart Dickson

           *                              Director
B.F. Dolan

           *                              Director
William M. Ellinghaus

           *                              Director
Webb C. Hayes, III



          *                               Director
John D. Macomber

           *                              Director
Barbara Scott Preiskel

           *                              Director
Sam F. Segnar

           *                              Director
Jean Head Sisco

           *                              Director
John W. Snow

           *                              Director
J. Paul Sticht

           *                              Director
Martin D. Walker

           *                              Director
Thomas B. Wheeler


           *                              Executive Vice President and 
Richard A. McWhirter                      Chief Financial Officer (principal)   
                                          financial officer)

           *                              Vice President and Controller 
William P. Janovitz                       (principal accounting officer)
*By: S/Arnold M. Friedman 
     Arnold M. Friedman
     Attorney-in-fact



                                  TEXTRON INC.
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                   Item 14(a)

                                                      Form       Annual Report
Textron Inc.                                          10-K      to Shareholders

  Report of Independent Auditors                                       38

  Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the
    three years in the period ended January 1,                         39

  Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 1, 1994
    and January 2, 1993                                                40

  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended January 1,                     41

  Consolidated Statement of Changes in
    Shareholders' Equity for each of the three
    years in the period ended January 1, 1994                          42

  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies                        43 - 45

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        45 - 64

  Revenues and Income by Business Segment                              33

  Supplementary Information (Unaudited):

    Quarterly Financial Information 1993 and 1992                      65

  Financial Statement Schedules for each of the
    three years in the period ended January 1,

     III  Condensed financial information of           26
            registrant

    VIII  Valuation and qualifying accounts            27

      IX  Short-term borrowings                        28

       X  Supplementary income statement               29
               information

All other schedules  are omitted  because the conditions  requiring the  filing
thereof do not  exist or because  the information required  is included in  the
financial statements and notes thereto.


                                  TEXTRON INC.

          SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

        For each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 1994



     Financial information  of  the  Registrant is  omitted  because  condensed
financial information  of the  Textron Parent  Company Borrowing  Group,  which
includes the Registrant and all  of its majority-owned subsidiaries other  than
its finance and insurance  subsidiaries, is shown on  pages 61-62 of  Textron's
Annual Report  to Shareholders.   Management  believes that  the disclosure  of
financial information  on the  basis of  the Textron  Parent Company  Borrowing
Group results in a more  meaningful presentation, since this group  constitutes
the Registrant's basic borrowing entity and the only restrictions on net assets
of Textron's subsidiaries  relate to its  finance and insurance  subsidiaries.
The Registrant's  investment  in  its finance  and  insurance  subsidiaries  is
reflected  under   the   caption   "Investments  in   finance   and   insurance
subsidiaries."

     The Textron Parent  Company Borrowing  Group received  dividends of  $93.5
million, $78.4  million  and  $78.2  million from  its  finance  and  insurance
subsidiaries in 1993,  1992 and  1991, respectively.   The portion  of the  net
assets of  Textron's  finance and  insurance  subsidiaries available  for  cash
dividends and other payments to the  Textron Parent Company Borrowing Group  is
restricted  by  the  terms  of  lending  agreements  and  insurance   statutory
requirements.  As of January 1, 1994,  approximately $311 million of their  net
assets of $2.2 billion  was available to be  transferred to the Textron  Parent
Company Borrowing Group pursuant to these restrictions.

     For information concerning  the Textron Parent  Company Borrowing  Group's
long-term debt and restrictions contained in its debt agreements, see Note 8 to
the consolidated financial  statements appearing  on pages  50-51 of  Textron's
1993 Annual Report to Shareholders.



                                  TEXTRON INC.

               SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

        For each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 1994

                                 (In millions)



(a)  Exclude the effect  of recoveries  on accounts previously  written off  of
     $28.9 million, $28.2  million and $25.4  million in 1993,  1992 and  1991,
     respectively, which have been credited directly to income.

(b)  Consist primarily of receivables written off.



                                  TEXTRON INC.

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

        For each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 1994

                                 (In millions)





* The average amount outstanding during each year was computed by averaging the
  daily ending balances during  the year.  The  weighted average interest  rate
  during each year was determined based on daily outstanding principal  amounts
  and excludes the cost of maintaining the lines of credit.

NOTE:  This schedule excludes borrowings under or supported by long-term credit
       facilities of the Textron Parent Company Borrowing Group.



                                  TEXTRON INC.

                       SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME
                             STATEMENT INFORMATION

        For each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 1994

                                 (In millions)



                            TEXTRON INC.

                          Index of Exhibits
                     Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the Fiscal Year Ended January 1, 1994


    Exhibit                       Description

     10.11          Employment Agreement between Textron and Mary L. 
                    Howell dated as of May 4, 1993.  

     10.17          Deferred Income Plan for Textron Directors 
                    effective May 26, 1993.
 
     10.20A         Credit Agreement dated as of November 1, 1993 
                    among Textron, the Lenders listed therein  
                    and Bankers Trust Company as Administrative 
                    Agent. 

     10.20B         Line of Credit dated as of November 1, 1993 among 
                    Textron, the Lenders listed therein and Bankers 
                    Trust Company as Administrative Agent.
     
     12.1           Computation of ratio of income to fixed charges 
                    of the Textron Parent Company Borrowing Group.

     12.2           Computation of ratio of income to fixed 
                    charges of Textron Inc. including all 
                    majority-owned subsidiaries. 

     13             Textron's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders. 
                    Except for pages or items specifically 
                    incorporated by reference herein, Textron's 
                    Annual Report to Shareholders is furnished for 
                    the information of the Commission and is not 
                    filed as part of this Report. 

     21             Certain subsidiaries of Textron.  Other 
                    subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate 
                    do not constitute a significant subsidiary, are 
                    omitted from such list. 

     23             Consent of Independent Auditors.

     24.1           Power of Attorney.

     24.2           Certified copy of a resolution of the Board 
                    of Directors of Textron.
     


