
10-K405
e-6787.txt
ANNUAL REPORT FOR YEAR ENDING 3-31-01


================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2001 OR

[ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

     For the transition period from __________ to __________

     Commission File Number: 0-21184


                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)


        DELAWARE                                                 86-0629024
- ------------------------                                      ----------------
(State of Incorporation)                                      (I.R.S. Employer
                                                             Identification No.)


                   2355 W. CHANDLER BLVD., CHANDLER, AZ 85224
          ------------------------------------------------------------
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)


                                 (480) 792-7200
              ----------------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)


           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                     COMMON STOCK, $.001 PAR VALUE PER SHARE
                         PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

     The registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

     Yes [X] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. [X]

     The approximate aggregate market value of the voting stock of the
registrant beneficially owned by stockholders, other than directors, officers
and affiliates of the registrant, at April 27, 2001 was $ 3,583,935,514.

     Number of shares of Common Stock, $.001 par value, outstanding as of April
27, 2001: 131,219,921

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     DOCUMENT                                                  PART OF FORM 10-K
     --------                                                  -----------------
     Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual                              III
     Meeting of Stockholders

================================================================================

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In
this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology
Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355
West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number
is (480) 792-7200. Our website address is microchip.com. The information on our
website is NOT incorporated into this Form 10-K.

     We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our
customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product
portfolio comprises field-programmable RISC-based microcontrollers that serve 8-
and 16-bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of
high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power management and thermal
management devices. We also offer complementary microperipheral products,
including interface devices, serial EEPROMS, and our patented KEELOQ(R) security
devices. We market our products to the automotive, communications, computing,
consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO 9001 (1994
version) and QS9000 (1998 version) certified.

     THIS FORM 10-K CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY, FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE SOURCES. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE,"
"PLAN," "EXPECT," "FUTURE," "INTEND" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE
RESULTS ANTICIPATED IN THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN
FACTORS INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS
THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING BELOW AT PAGE 9, "ITEM 7 -
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 17, AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH WE
BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE
REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE
OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Competitive pressures require manufacturers to expand product functionality
and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these
requirements, manufacturers use integrated circuit-based embedded control
systems that provide an integrated solution for application-specific control
requirements. Embedded control systems enable manufacturers to differentiate
their products, replace less efficient electromechanical control devices, add
product functionality and significantly reduce product costs. In addition,
embedded control systems facilitate the emergence of complete new classes of
products. Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as
the principal active, and sometimes sole, component.

     A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a
central processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for
data storage and various input/output capabilities. In addition to the
microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates
application-specific software and may include specialized peripheral device
controllers and external non-volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs to
store additional program software.

     Embedded control systems enable our customers to:

     *    differentiate their products
     *    replace less efficient electromechanical control devices
     *    add product functionality, and
     *    significantly reduce product cost.

     Embedded control solutions have been incorporated into thousands of
products and subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide, including:

     *    automotive air bag systems
     *    remote control devices
     *    handheld tools
     *    appliances
     *    portable computers
     *    cordless and cellular telephones
     *    motor controls, and
     *    security systems.

     The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for
microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures.
Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, typically costing
under $1.00 each, they generally lack the minimum performance and features
required by today's design engineers for product differentiation and are
typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While 16- and
32-bit architectures provide very high performance, they are prohibitively
expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications, typically costing
$6.00 to $12.00 each. As a result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume
products have increasingly found 8-bit microcontrollers, that typically cost
$1.00 to $8.00 each, to be the most cost-effective embedded control solution.
For example, a typical new automobile may include one 32-bit microcontroller for
engine control, three 16-bit microcontrollers for transmission control, audio
systems and anti-lock braking, and up to 50 8-bit microcontrollers to provide
other embedded control functions, such as door locking, automatic windows, sun
roof, adjustable seats, electric mirrors, air bags, fuel pump, speedometer, and
the security and climate control systems.

     Most microcontrollers available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 5- to 15-week
lead times, based on current market conditions, for delivery of such
microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead
times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and factory shutdowns when
changes to the firmware are required. To address time-to-market constraints,
some suppliers have made EPROM, EEPROM, or Flash Memory-based programmable
microcontrollers available for prototyping and preproduction runs. However,
these microcontrollers have been relatively expensive, and manufacturers have
still been required to send program code to the semiconductor factory for ROM
programming as product changes are made. As a result, the long lead times for
production volume microcontrollers have not been significantly reduced by
traditional approaches.

OUR PRODUCTS

     Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including
microcontrollers, high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power management and
thermal management devices, and complementary microperipheral products including
interface devices, serial EEPROMS, and our patented KEELOQ(R) security devices.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the
advantages of small size, low voltage operation and ease of development,
enabling timely and cost-effective product integration by our customers.

     MICROCONTROLLERS

     We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique,
proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC(R) brand name. We believe that
our PIC(R) product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide
microcontroller market. We have shipped approximately 1.5 billion PIC(R)
microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our
PIC(R) products are designed for applications requiring high performance, low
power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of memory technology
configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and ease of use. Our
performance results from an exclusive product architecture which features dual
data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a
reduced instruction set, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions;
all of which provide significant speed advantages over the alternative
single-bus, CISC architectures. Prices for our microcontroller products
currently range from approximately $0.49 to $10.00 per unit.


     Our original market focus was in the low-cost segment of the 8-bit
microcontroller marketplace. With our baseline products, we built our current
market position as the leading worldwide supplier of field programmable
microcontrollers. Over the past five years, we have introduced more than 135 new
microcontrollers targeted at the baseline, mid-range and advanced high-end
segments of the traditional 8-bit microcontroller marketplace. Additionally,
with our scalable product architecture, we have successfully targeted both the
entry level of the 16-bit microcontroller market as well as the higher end of
the 4-bit microcontroller marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable
market. We believe that all of the additional market segments we have entered
represent significant opportunities for future sales growth.

     We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology
to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the
development and production of our PIC(R) family of microcontroller products. Our
extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user
programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash,
EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller in addition to masked ROM
program memory being included into the microcontroller.

     DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS

     We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy-to-learn application
development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily
program a PIC(R) microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor
for obtaining design wins.

     Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows(R)
environment on standard PC hardware. Entry-level systems, which include an
assembler and programmer hardware, are priced at less than $200. A fully
configured system, which also provides in-circuit emulation hardware,
performance simulators and software debuggers, is priced at approximately
$2,000. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time
emulation are able to preserve their investment in software tools as they
migrate to future PIC(R) devices since all the product families are assembly-
and C-language compatible.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application development
tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product
architecture. Currently, there are more than 120 third-party tool suppliers
worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third-party,
development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an
important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These
development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of
application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we
have shipped more than 200,000 development systems.

     ASSPS

     Our application-specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are
specialized products designed to perform specific end-user applications as
opposed to our other products which are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP
device families currently include the KEELOQ(R) family of secure data
transmission products, as well as other specialized integrated circuit devices.
KEELOQ(R) security products are designed for low cost, secure, uni- and
bi-directional communications and verification purposes. Applications include:

     *    automotive remote keyless entry systems
     *    automotive immobilizer systems
     *    product authentication
     *    residential security
     *    automatic garage and gate openers, and
     *    residential/hotel door access.

     Our ASSP products include a variety of specialized integrated circuits,
including our family of KEELOQ(R) security products for wireless communications.


     MIXED-SIGNAL ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS

     Our mixed-signal products consist of a variety of standalone analog devices
used primarily in embedded control systems to convert or buffer input and output
signals to or from a microcontroller or digital signal processor.

     We believe that there is a revenue opportunity to embed, or "attach,"
approximately $1.50 of analog products around each $1.00 of microcontrollers. We
began targeting this revenue opportunity at the beginning of fiscal 2000 when we
introduced our standalone analog product family. By the end of fiscal 2000, our
mixed-signal analog and interface products consisted of more than 15 standalone
analog products, which were being shipped to more than 1,000 end customers.

     In order to accelerate our microcontroller "attach" strategy, we merged
with TelCom Semiconductor, Inc., a company with a diversified portfolio of high
performance analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits, in January 2001. With
the addition of the TelCom products, our mixed-signal analog and interface
products portfolio now exceeds 250 products, including mixed-signal, linear,
supervisory, data acquisition, interface, power management and thermal
management products, being shipped to more than 6,000 customers.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable
programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices
primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest
suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified
frequently or retained for long periods. Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin
requirement, permitting production of very small devices. As a result, Serial
EEPROMs are widely used to supply non-volatile memory in space-sensitive
applications such as portable computers, cellular and cordless telephones,
pagers and remote control devices. Our memory products are primarily comprised
of serial EEPROMs, which are used primarily to provide non-volatile memory
storage in embedded control systems.

     We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small
package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions.
High performance circuitry and microcode are also available to reduce power
consumption when a device is not in use, while permitting immediate operating
capability when required. The products also feature long data retention and high
erase/write endurance.

MANUFACTURING

     The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of
our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing
control and to be one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control
industry. By owning our wafer fabrication and the majority of our test
operations, and by employing proprietary statistical process control techniques,
we have been able to achieve high production yields. Direct control over
manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture the manufacturing and a portion of the
assembly and testing profit margin.

     Our wafer fabrication and wafer test facilities are located in Chandler,
Arizona, which we refer to as Fab 1, and Tempe, Arizona, which we refer to as
Fab 2. In July 2000, we acquired a third wafer fabrication facility located in
Puyallup, Washington, which we refer to as Fab 3.

     We perform product packaging and testing at our facilities located near
Bangkok, Thailand. We also use third-party assembly and test contractors in
several Asian countries.

     Wafers are produced in Class 10 fabrication modules in Fab 1 and Fab 2. Fab
1 currently contains approximately 40,000 square feet of usable clean room space
and currently produces 6-inch wafers. Fab 2 currently contains approximately
50,000 square feet of usable clean room space and currently produces 8-inch
wafers. Wafer sort is performed in an 8,000 square foot, Class 10,000 clean
room, equipped with automated wafer handlers and test equipment. Fab 1 and Fab 2
are managed by the same management team and utilize similar production
techniques. Fab 3 contains approximately 114,000 square feet of clean room space
and, once volume production commences, will initially produce 8-inch wafers
using our 0.5-micron and 0.35-micron process technologies.


     In response to business conditions that have resulted in lower demand for
our products, in February 2001 we announced plans to reduce cumulative wafer
capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by 24%, and to delay the planned August 2001 start-up
of Fab 3 until December 2002.

     We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to
reduce future manufacturing costs. We also continue to increase the percentage
of our production on 8-inch wafers. As of March 31, 2001, 8-inch wafers
accounted for approximately 80% of our production. Other companies in the
industry have experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced
process technologies, resulting in reduced manufacturing yields or delays in
product deliveries. We believe that our transition to more advanced process
technologies is important for us to remain competitive. Our future operating
results could be adversely affected if the transition is substantially delayed
or inefficiently implemented.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE TIMING OF THE START-UP OF FAB 3 AND
THE USE OF OUR 0.35-MICRON PROCESS TECHNOLOGY AT FAB 3 ARE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING
FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: INCREASED OR DECREASED CUSTOMER DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS;
THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; SUPPLY DISRUPTION;
FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS; PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY
UTILIZATION; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING
COSTS; THE TIMING AND SUCCESS OF MANUFACTURING PROCESS TRANSITION; CHANGES IN
PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. SEE
ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT
MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING BELOW AT PAGE 9.

     We currently employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in
developing our microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes
afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and
greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors
develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product
lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and
non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process
research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more
rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform
circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer
fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by
processing test wafers quickly and efficiently.

     At March 31, 2001, several third-party contractors located throughout Asia
performed the majority of our assembly operations, and a portion of our test
requirements. The balance of the assembly and test operations is performed in
our Thailand facility. Currently, our Thailand facility tests approximately 95%
of the products produced in Fab 1 and Fab 2. The 200,000 square foot Thailand
test facility currently has the capacity to handle up to 120 million units per
month. The Thailand facility also assembles approximately 45% of the products
produced in Fab 1 and Fab 2. Final product test and burn-in functions are
handled by advanced automated equipment.

     During fiscal 2002, we will rely on third-party wafer foundries to
fabricate a substantial portion of the TelCom products. We will also use
third-party wafer foundries on a strategic basis to shorten our product design
cycle on certain key technologies and products.

     Our reliance on third parties involves some reduction in our level of
control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review
the quality, delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our
future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at
approximately their current levels.

     Our reliance on foreign operations, maintenance of substantially all of our
finished goods in inventory in foreign locations, and significant foreign sales
exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. To date, we have not
experienced any significant interruptions in our foreign business operations. If
any significant interruption in our foreign business operations materializes,
our sales could decrease and our operations performance could suffer.

     Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing,
increased manufacturing yields can have significant positive effects on gross
profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2001, we continued to focus
on manufacturing productivity, and maintained average wafer fab line yields in
excess of 95%. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive
implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and
selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance
of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the
achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices,
such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are
sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in
the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the
performance of our fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the
semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than


anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are
unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time
in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than
expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment
sources could harm our business.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products,
including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing
process technology. We believe these investments are significant factors in
maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development, or
R&D, activities focus on the design of new microcontroller, memory and
mixed-signal products, ASSPs, new development systems, and software and
application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and
process technology to achieve further cost reductions and performance
improvements in existing products. In fiscal 2001, our R&D expenses were $78.6
million, as compared to $52.4 million in fiscal 2000 and $46.4 million in fiscal
1999.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct
sales personnel and electronics distributors. Effective April 1, 2000, we
terminated our contractual relationships with predominantly all manufacturer's
representatives in the Americas, and throughout fiscal 2001, we added additional
resources to our direct sales force focusing on the Americas. From time to time,
we expect that we may restructure certain portions of our sales network as we
deem appropriate given the level of our business.

     Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in
three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain
sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe
and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our
field sales engineers, referred to as FSEs, field application engineers,
referred to as FAEs, and sales management have technical degrees and have been
previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical
knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our
products. Currently, we strive to have at least one dedicated FAE in every sales
and support center. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical
assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for
FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical
seminars in major cities around the world, and work closely with our
distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support.

     Distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support
requirements of our broad base of small- and medium-sized customers. We believe
that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad customer
base.

     In fiscal 2001, we derived 65% of our net sales from sales through
distributors and 35% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment
manufacturers, referred to as OEM, customers. Distributors accounted for 63% of
our net sales in fiscal 2000 and 59% in fiscal 1999. One distributor accounted
for 14% of our total net sales for fiscal 2001, 14% in fiscal 2000 and 11% in
fiscal 1999. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in
fiscal years 2001, 2000 or 1999.

     Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and
our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no
advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more
of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and
could result in an increase in inventory returns.

     As is common in the semiconductor industry, we provide limited price
protection to our distributors. Under our current policy, distributors receive a
credit for the difference, at the time of a price reduction, between the price
they were originally charged for products in inventory and the reduced price
that we subsequently charge distributors. From time to time, and on a
case-by-case basis, distributors may also receive credit for specific
transactions that we approve in advance. We also grant some distributors limited
rights to return products. We do not recognize net sales and profit on sales to
distributors that have rights of return and price protection until those
distributors have resold the products to end customers.


     Foreign sales, primarily in Asia and Europe, represented 68% of our total
net sales in fiscal 2001, as compared to 68% in fiscal 2000 and 69% in fiscal
1999. International sales are predominately billed in U.S. Dollars. Although
foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not
experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to
date. For a detailed description of our sales by geographic region, see also
"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Net Sales," at page 17, and Note
17 to our consolidated financial statements.

BACKLOG

     As of April 27, 2001, our backlog was approximately $137.9 million, as
compared to $212.7 million as of April 28, 2000. Our backlog includes all
purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

     We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory
within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large
extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by
short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current
backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the
customer's option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for
scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable
measure of sales for any future period. Orders received in a quarter for
shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders, have become an
increasingly important component of our quarterly operating results. See
"Additional Factors That May Affect Results of Operations," beginning below at
page 9.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing,
distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies
may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control
applications. Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is increasing
over time and such increased capacity or improved product availability could
adversely affect our competitive position.

     We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation
and performance of our embedded control products, including their speed,
functionality, density, power consumption, reliability and packaging
alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. We believe that
other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include ease
of use, functionality of application development systems and technical service
and support. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of
these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which
could harm our business.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     As of March 31, 2001, we owned 180 U.S. patents and 51 foreign patents,
expiring on various dates between 2003 and 2020, and had an additional 100 U.S.
patent applications and 127 foreign patent applications pending. We intend to
continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes. The
process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may
not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our
existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient
scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage
to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial and
management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not
protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States. We believe, however, that our continued success depends primarily
on such factors as the technological skills and innovative abilities of our
personnel rather than on our patents.

     We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and
cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and
manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have
from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications
alleging possible infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights
of others. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is
appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can
obtain any necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms,
but we cannot assure that licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation
would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed.
Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of
management effort, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual
property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of


others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation
arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes,
including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Superfund Amendment
and Reauthorization Act, the Clean Air Act and the Water Pollution Control Act.
We believe that we have obtained all of the environmental permits required to
conduct our business. Although we believe that our activities conform to
presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with
present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines,
suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Any such regulation could
require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to
comply with environmental regulations. While we have not experienced any
materially adverse effects on our operations from governmental regulations, any
failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of
hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Environmental
problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities.

EMPLOYEES

     As of April 27, 2001, we had 3,011 employees worldwide, including 1,983 in
manufacturing, 489 in research and development, 384 in sales and marketing and
155 in finance and administration. Approximately 39% of our employees work at
our Thailand facility. No employees in the U.S. or Thailand are represented by a
labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our
employee relations are good.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers as of April 27, 2001:



     Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991,
and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since
August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer
Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in
Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

     Mr. Billington has served as Vice President, Manufacturing and Technology
Group since November 1998. From October 1994 to November 1998, he served as Vice
President, Manufacturing Operations. Mr. Billington holds a B.S. degree in
marketing from Abilene Christian University.

     Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November
1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing
Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab
Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the
University of Cincinnati.

     Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications
since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President,
Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President,


Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. From September 1993 to November
1995, he served as Vice President, Memory Products and ASSP Division. Mr. Little
holds a BSET from United Electronics Institute.

     Mr. Parnell has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993
to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the
Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland.

     Mr. Rigg has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Systems
Group since March 1997. From November 1995 to March 1997, he served as Vice
President, Advanced Microcontroller and Technology Division. From June 1989 to
November 1995, he served as Vice President, Logic Products Division. Mr. Rigg
holds a B.S. degree in Physics from Manchester University, England.

     Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Microperipheral Products
Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as
Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. From October of 1995 to
January 1996, he served as Vice President of Yield and Manufacturing
Engineering. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering
Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful
consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information
provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO FACTORS THAT COULD REDUCE
OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY.

     Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors
that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our
control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:

     *    demand for our products in the distribution and OEM channels
     *    the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter
          (turns orders)
     *    market acceptance of both our products and our customers' products
     *    customer order patterns and seasonality
     *    availability of manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in
          manufacturing yields
     *    disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly services
     *    the availability and cost of raw materials, equipment and other
          supplies, and
     *    economic, political and other conditions in the worldwide markets
          served by us.

     We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are
not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any comparisons as
indications of future performance. In future periods our operating results may
fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would
likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN MANUFACTURING YIELDS.

     The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly
non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we
produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety
of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our
fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor
industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated
manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to
maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

WE DEPEND ON ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND SHIPPED IN THE SAME QUARTER AND
THEREFORE HAVE LIMITED VISIBILITY OF FUTURE PRODUCT SHIPMENTS.

     Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders
received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as
turns orders, and shipments from backlog. If we do not achieve a sufficient
level of turns orders in a particular quarter, our net sales and operating
results will suffer. We have emphasized our ability to respond quickly to
customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers
placing orders with increasingly shorter delivery schedules. The percentage of
turns orders in any given quarter is dependent on overall semiconductor industry


conditions and product lead times. Shorter lead times has the effect of
increasing turns orders as a portion of our business in any given quarter and
reducing our visibility on future product shipments. As such, our percentage of
turns orders has fluctuated over the last three years between 20% and 65%. As of
April 1, 2001, we required turns orders of approximately 41% in order to achieve
our projected net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Because turns
orders are difficult to predict, increased levels of turns orders make our net
sales more difficult to forecast.

     If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular
quarter, our revenue and operating results would be reduced.

INTENSE COMPETITION IN OUR MARKETS MAY LEAD TO REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND
REDUCED MARKET SHARE.

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue
engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.
Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for
embedded control applications. In addition, our ability to compete successfully
depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including:

     *    the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing
          and diversity of our products
     *    the quality of our customer services and our ability to address the
          needs of our customers
     *    our success in designing and manufacturing new products including
          those implementing new technologies
     *    efficiency of production
     *    hiring and retention of qualified engineering and management personnel
     *    adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable
          prices
     *    the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own
          products
     *    product introductions by our competitors
     *    the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market
     *    general market and economic conditions, and
     *    protection of our products and processes by effective utilization of
          intellectual property laws.

     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant, while average
selling prices of our memory products have declined over time. We have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain
microcontroller product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We have
been able to maintain average selling prices for microcontroller products by
continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices,
thereby offsetting price declines in older products. During the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2001, we initially experienced price increases in our Serial
EEPROM memories, but in the fourth quarter we experienced pricing and
competitive pressures which resulted in price reductions of approximately ten
percent (10%) compared to the prior quarter. We may be unable to maintain
average selling prices for our microcontroller or other products as a result of
increased pricing pressure in the future, which would reduce our operating
results.

     We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm
our business.

WE MUST ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO BE SUCCESSFUL, AND COMPETITION
FOR QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IS INTENSE IN OUR MARKET.

     Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities
of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for
qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be
unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and
retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of
one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could
harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our
senior management team.


OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS.

     Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our
ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis which can
compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address
customer requirements. The success of new product introductions depends on
various factors, including:

     *    proper new product selection
     *    timely completion and introduction of new product designs
     *    development of support tools and collateral literature that make
          complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and
     *    market acceptance of our customers' end products.

     Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to
time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products
may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to
design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which
could reduce our future operating results.

     Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new
design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies
are subject to rapid technological change and require significant research and
development expenditures. Other companies in the industry have experienced
difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and,
consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product
deliveries. Our future operating results could be reduced if the transition is
substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

TELCOM DID NOT HAVE ANY FORMAL AGREEMENTS WITH THIRD-PARTY WAFER SUPPLIERS
GUARANTEEING A MINIMUM SUPPLY OR SET PRICES. ANY INABILITY OR UNWILLINGNESS OF
TELCOM'S WAFER SUPPLIERS TO MEET MANUFACTURING REQUIREMENTS WOULD DELAY
PRODUCTION AND PRODUCT SHIPMENTS.

     While Microchip has historically manufactured all of its own wafers, TelCom
purchased its wafers from three outside foundries. Each of these wafer suppliers
also fabricates wafers for other semiconductor companies, including some of our
competitors. During fiscal 2002, we expect to continue to rely on these wafer
suppliers to supply wafers for a substantial portion of the TelCom business. We
have no written commitments specifying wafer capacities from any outside
foundries and, therefore, will be unable to purchase wafers from these foundries
if they experience manufacturing failures or yield shortfalls, choose to
prioritize capacity for other use or otherwise choose to reduce or eliminate
deliveries to us. In such case, we may not be able to qualify additional
manufacturing sources for existing or new TelCom products in a timely manner or
at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on terms favorable to us. In
addition, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use
all of the capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be significant and
could harm our operating results.

     Although current market conditions in the semiconductor industry indicate
that there is sufficient available manufacturing capacity, a significant
increase in demand for TelCom products during fiscal 2002 could result in wafers
being in short supply and prevent us from having an adequate supply to meet our
customer requirements for the TelCom business.

WE ARE DEPENDENT ON SEVERAL THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTORS IN ASIA TO PERFORM KEY
MANUFACTURING FUNCTIONS FOR US.

     We depend on several third-party contractors located throughout Asia for a
portion of the assembly and testing of our products and for a portion of the
wafer fabrication of TelCom products. Although we seek to reduce our dependence
on these third-party contractors, disruption or termination of any of these
sources could harm our business and operating results. Our reliance on third
parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our
business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any
third-party contractor were to experience financial, operations or production
difficulties, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly
and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels.

WE MAY LOSE SALES IF OUR SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT FAIL TO MEET
OUR NEEDS.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time


in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than
expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment
sources could harm our business.

OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON SELLING THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS.

     Sales through distributors accounted for 65% of our net sales for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2001. Sales through one distributor accounted for
14% of our total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001. Generally,
we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and our distributors
may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice.

     The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our
distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in
an increase in inventory returns.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY THE WIDE FLUCTUATIONS OF SUPPLY AND
DEMAND IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY.

     The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply
and demand. The industry is currently experiencing a significant economic
downturn, characterized by diminished product demand and production
over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry
cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly
replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of
market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period
fluctuations in operating results in recent quarters and may, in the future,
experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general
industry or economic conditions.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
RIGHTS, WE COULD LOSE MARKET SHARE, INCUR COSTLY LITIGATION EXPENSES OR LOSE
VALUABLE ASSETS.

     Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property
rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our
success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and
intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing
processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive,
and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In
addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of
sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial
advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings
in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial
and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do
not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States.

     As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time
received, and may in the future receive, communications alleging possible
infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We
investigate all infringement notices and respond as we believe is appropriate.
Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any
necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we
cannot assure that licenses would be available on acceptable terms, that
litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not
be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and
diversion of management effort, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other
intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the
rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or
litigation arising out of infringement claims could harm our business.

OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES ARE SUBJECT TO DISRUPTION FOR REASONS BEYOND OUR
CONTROL.

     Operations at any of our primary manufacturing facilities, or at any of our
wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for
reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fire, earthquake, floods,
or other natural disasters. If operations at any of our facilities or by any or
our subcontractors are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to
other facilities on a timely basis. If this occurs, we may experience delays in
shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may
be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in the cancellation of
orders or loss of customers.

     We acquired a wafer fabrication site in Puyallup, Washington in July 2000.
We currently intend to commence installation of wafer processing equipment in
June 2002 and to commence volume production in December 2002, subject to
business conditions and capacity requirements. Once operational, we will need
the reliable operation and effective integration of a variety of hardware and
software components to achieve our anticipated production rates. The capital
expenditures required to bring the facility to full operating capacity may be
greater than we anticipate and result in lower margins.


WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO
FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS.

     Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net
sales. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, 68% of our net sales were
made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw
materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product
packaging and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use
various third-party contractors located throughout Asia for a portion of our
packaging and testing and TelCom product wafer fabrication requirements.

     Our reliance on foreign sales and operations exposes us to foreign
political and economic risks, including:

     *    political, social and economic instability
     *    trade restrictions and changes in tariffs
     *    import and export license requirements and restrictions
     *    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
     *    disruptions in international transport or delivery
     *    fluctuations in currency exchange rates
     *    difficulties in collecting receivables, and
     *    potentially adverse tax consequences.

     If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our
operations performance could suffer.

     Various industry experts are forecasting a recession and general economic
slowdown in the United States. There are recent indications that various
countries in Asia and Europe may also be experiencing a general economic
slowdown. Because of our reliance on foreign sales and operations, an economic
slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us may harm our business.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH MAY FORCE US TO
INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES.

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process.
Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable
environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or
a cessation of operations. Any such regulation could require us to acquire
costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with
environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately
restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future
liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future
costs or liabilities.

     In 1993, TelCom acquired the semiconductor manufacturing operations of
Teledyne, Inc. previously conducted at TelCom's Mountain View, California
facility. The semiconductor manufacturing operations conducted by Teledyne at
the facility allegedly contaminated the soil and groundwater of the facility,
and the groundwater of properties located down-gradient of the facility.
Although TelCom was indemnified by Teledyne against, among other things, any
liabilities arising from any such contamination, and although we should be able
to benefit from this indemnification as a successor to TelCom's business, we
cannot assure you that claims will not be made against us or that such
indemnification will be available or will provide meaningful protection at the
time any such claim is brought. To the extent that we are subject to a claim
that is not covered by the indemnity from Teledyne or as to which Teledyne is
unable to provide indemnification, our financial condition or operating results
could suffer.

OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE THE TELCOM BUSINESS COULD DISRUPT OR HARM
OUR ONGOING BUSINESS.

     Achieving the anticipated benefits of our merger with TelCom depends upon
whether the integration of Microchip's and TelCom's product offerings and
manufacturing operations, and the coordination of sales and marketing and
research and development efforts, are accomplished in an efficient and effective
manner. The difficulties of such integration may be increased by the need to
coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the
products and technologies being integrated, and the necessity of integrating
personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different
corporate cultures. The integration of Microchip's and TelCom's operations
requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from
the day-to-day business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing
or sales efforts. The inability of management to successfully integrate the
TelCom operations could harm our business. In addition, product lines acquired


from the TelCom acquisition may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may
not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of the acquisition.

THE FUTURE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE SUBJECT TO WIDE
FLUCTUATIONS IN RESPONSE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS.

     The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the
past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our
common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of
factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:

     *    quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating
          results of other semiconductor companies
     *    actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new
          products by us or our competitors
     *    changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or
          buy/sell recommendations
     *    general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and
     *    worldwide economic and financial conditions.

     In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high
technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may harm the market price of our common stock.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Our current headquarters, a research and development center and Fab 1 are
located in four buildings totaling approximately 415,000 square feet situated on
a 77-acre parcel of land in Chandler, Arizona.

     A second U.S. manufacturing site, consisting of Fab 2, office and warehouse
facilities and a research and development center, is located in three buildings
totaling approximately 379,000 square feet on a 22-acre parcel of land in Tempe,
Arizona.

     Our third U.S. manufacturing site, consisting of Fab 3, office and
warehouse facilities and a research and development center, is located in eight
buildings totaling approximately 700,000 square feet on a 92-acre parcel in
Puyallup, Washington. We acquired this property in July 2000. We currently
intend to commence installation of wafer processing equipment in Fab 3 in June
2002, and to commence volume production at Fab 3 in December 2002.

     We own the Chandler, Tempe and Puyallup facilities.

     We also own a final test and assembly facility located near Bangkok,
Thailand. The Thailand final test and assembly operations are housed in a
200,000 square foot facility that is owned by our Thailand subsidiary, and are
located in the Alphatechnopolis Industrial Park in Chacherngsao, Thailand, near
Bangkok. The Thailand facility is situated on land to which we expect to acquire
title in accordance with an agreement between us and the landowner. To date,
progress towards obtaining the full title has been hampered by the condition of
the financial industry and general economic conditions in Thailand. At this time
it is not possible to estimate when full title transfer will be completed.

     To support our sales activities, we lease space for 34 sales and support
centers in major metropolitan areas in the United States, Europe and Asia. Our
aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately
$266,000.

     We currently believe that our existing facilities will be adequate to meet
our requirements for the next 12 months.

     The foregoing statements related to the anticipated dates of equipment
installation and volume production at Fab 3, the acquisition of title to the
land on which the Thailand facility is situated, and the adequacy of facilities
for the next 12 months are forward-looking statements. Actual results could
differ materially because of the following factors, among others: the cyclical
nature of the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our products;
demand for our products; the availability of equipment and other supplies;
fluctuations in production yields, production efficiencies and overall capacity
utilization; competitive pressures on prices; political instability and
expropriation; and other economic conditions. See also the factors set forth
under "Item 1 - Business - Additional Factors That May Affect Results of
Operations," beginning at page 9 of this report.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number
of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured
liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome of these actions is
not presently determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these
matters will not harm our business. Litigation relating to the semiconductor
industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject
to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or
outcome of any such litigation in the future.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
"MCHP." Our common stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq National Market since
March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low
closing prices of the common stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market for
the last two years, adjusted to reflect a 3-for-2 stock split effected in
September 2000 and a 3-for-2 stock split effected in February 2000:

     FISCAL 2001         HIGH      LOW        FISCAL 2000         HIGH      LOW
     -----------         ----      ---        -----------         ----      ---

     First Quarter      $48.50   $33.33       First Quarter      $22.42   $14.97
     Second Quarter      47.92    33.06       Second Quarter      26.53    20.83
     Third Quarter       37.19    20.00       Third Quarter       32.47    22.72
     Fourth Quarter      31.06    21.81       Fourth Quarter      48.17    25.86

     On May 11, 2001, the closing sale price for our common stock was $26.71 per
share. As of such date, there were approximately 525 holders of record of our
common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held
in nominee names.

     We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception. We currently
anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the
expansion and operation of our business. Thus, we do not anticipate paying any
cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future.


                THE REST OF THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the
five-year period ended March 31, 2001 in conjunction with our Consolidated
Financial Statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this
Form 10-K. Our consolidated income statement data for each of the years in the
three-year period ended March 31, 2001, and the balance sheet data as of March
31, 2001 and 2000, are derived from our audited consolidated financial
statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



(1)  Detailed discussions of the special charges, the net loss in equity
     investment, and the gain on sale of investment for the fiscal years ended
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 are contained in Note 2 to the Consolidated
     Financial Statements. Detailed explanations of the special charges for the
     March 31, 1998 and 1997 fiscal years are provided below.

     On January 13, 1998, we finalized a patent litigation settlement with
     Lucent Technologies Inc. resulting in a $5.0 million special charge during
     the quarter ended December 31, 1997. This settlement is described in more
     detail in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


     In November 1995, TelCom entered into certain agreements with IC WORKS,
     Inc., a privately held company located in San Jose, California. Pursuant to
     such agreements, TelCom purchased $3.0 million of preferred stock of IC
     WORKS and provided $10.4 million in capital equipment. In return for this
     investment, TelCom received a guarantee of submicron wafer capacity at
     specified prices for a period of five years, projected to start in late
     1997. The shortage of wafer capacity that was projected in late 1995 had
     diminished and since late 1995, substantial foundry capacity had been
     available worldwide while overall demand had not increased proportionately.
     Consequently, wafer pricing had decreased dramatically, which had changed
     the economic viability of the foundry business in which TelCom invested. As
     a result, in 1997, TelCom recorded a loss of $8.3 million on its foundry
     investment which consisted of a $3.0 million write-down of the preferred
     stock, a loss on the sale of the equipment of $5.2 million, and $0.1
     million of costs associated with prepayment penalties on financing of the
     equipment and legal fees. Pursuant to an agreement with IC WORKS, Inc., in
     the December 1997 quarter, TelCom sold $10.4 million of equipment at IC
     WORKS for $5.2 million and invested an additional $1.5 million in preferred
     stock of IC WORKS, Inc. This agreement terminated TelCom's operating
     agreement with IC WORKS and its wafer production arrangement was amended to
     allow TelCom to purchase wafers for a period of time prior to finding an
     alternative supplier, up to April 1998.

     During the quarter ended June 30, 1996, primarily in response to inventory
     correction activities at our customers, we implemented a series of actions
     to reduce production capacity, curtail the growth of inventories and reduce
     operating expenses. These actions included:

          *    delaying capital expansion plans and deferring capital spending
          *    a 15% production cutback in wafer fabrication
          *    a headcount reduction in April 1996, representing approximately
               3% of our worldwide employees, and
          *    a two-week wafer fab shutdown in early July 1996.

     As a result of these actions, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of
     $6.0 million in the quarter ended June 30, 1996 to cover costs primarily
     related to idling part of our 5-inch wafer fab capacity, paying continuing
     expenses during the wafer fab shutdown and severance costs associated with
     the April 1996 headcount reduction.

     On June 25, 1996 we acquired ASIC Technical Solutions, Inc., a fabless
     provider of quick turn gate array devices. The ASIC acquisition was treated
     as a purchase for accounting purposes. The amount paid for the ASIC
     acquisition and related costs were $1.8 million. As part of the ASIC
     acquisition, we allocated a substantial portion of the purchase price to
     in-process research and development costs, which is consistent with our
     on-going treatment of research and development costs. The total one-time
     write-off associated with the ASIC acquisition was $1.6 million, with the
     balance treated as purchased technology related to current products and
     amortized over five years.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net
sales for the years indicated:

                                                      Year Ended March 31,
                                                  2001        2000         1999
                                                ------      ------       ------

Net sales .................................      100.0%      100.0%       100.0%
Cost of sales .............................       46.8%       48.7%        52.1%
                                                ------      ------       ------
Gross profit ..............................       53.2%       51.3%        47.9%
Research and development ..................       11.0%        9.5%        10.1%
Selling, general and administrative .......       14.4%       15.7%        15.7%
Special charges ...........................        2.4%       (0.4%)        7.5%
                                                ------      ------       ------
Operating income ..........................       25.4%       26.5%        14.6%
                                                ======      ======       ======


     INDUSTRY CONDITIONS

     The semiconductor industry is currently facing very challenging conditions.
We, and the semiconductor industry in general, are experiencing a reduction in
demand due to continued inventory corrections at our customers and slowing of
demand from end markets. Lead times between when our customers book their orders
and when the product is to be delivered continue to be very short, and we expect
this to continue throughout fiscal 2002.

     Despite the current difficult market conditions and the short-term booking
visibility, we believe the longer-term indicators of our business continue to be
positive. We believe that the design activity of our proprietary products is
strong and that the performance of this product segment in the quarter ended
March 31, 2001, while down from the December 2000 quarter, was significantly
better than the overall industry averages. We are maintaining our research and
development initiatives, which will provide us with new manufacturing
technologies and add to our product portfolio.

     Additionally, sales of development systems continue to be an excellent
indication of new customer activity. As of March 31, 2001, we had made
cumulative shipments of more than 200,000 development systems, representing one
of the largest user bases of development tools in the semiconductor industry. We
also continue to see high rates of design-in activity, which we are confident
will position us favorably to return to a pattern of growth.

     As we look past the current difficult conditions in our industry, we
believe that we are well-positioned for the long-term, with our product
portfolio of microcontrollers, high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power
management and thermal management devices, together with our complimentary
microperipheral products that are enabling technologies for our customers'
applications in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and
industrial control market segments.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATING TO PRODUCT LEAD TIMES, CUSTOMER ORDER
PATTERNS AND VISIBILITY THROUGHOUT FISCAL 2002, POSITIVE LONG-TERM INDICATORS
FOR FUTURE GROWTH, DESIGN-IN ACTIVITY AT NEW CUSTOMERS, SHIPMENTS OF DEVELOPMENT
SYSTEMS AS POSITIONING US FAVORABLY TO RETURN TO A PATTERN OF GROWTH AND BEING
WELL-POSITIONED FOR THE LONG-TERM ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: DEMAND
FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL OF ORDERS THAT ARE
RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER; LEVELS OF INVENTORY AT OUR
DISTRIBUTORS AND OTHER CUSTOMERS; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS;
OUR TIMELY INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF
OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP NEW PRODUCTS
INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION; COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS AND PRICING IN THE MARKETS WE
GENERALLY SERVE; OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OPERATING MARGINS; AND GENERAL ECONOMIC
AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 -
BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING
AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

     NET SALES

     We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our
products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of market segments, perform
on-going credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no
collateral. Our net sales of $715.7 million in fiscal 2001 increased by $162.7
million, or 29.4%, over fiscal 2000, and net sales of $553.1 million in fiscal
2000 increased by $92.3 million, or 20.0%, over fiscal 1999. Our growth in sales
during the last three fiscal years can be attributed to several factors
including:

     *    new product introductions
     *    strong demand for new and existing products which address our
          customers' requirements, and
     *    focused technical resources that assist our customers in successfully
          bringing their products to market.

     These factors have allowed us to grow our business and gain market share in
the embedded control market.

     Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our
total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems
accounted for 65% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001, 72% of our total net
sales in fiscal 2000 and 67% of our total net sales in fiscal 1999. A related
component of our product sales consists primarily of Serial EEPROM memories,
which accounted for 25% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001, 18% of our total
net sales in fiscal 2000 and 21% of our total net sales in fiscal 1999. Sales of
mixed-signal analog and interface products accounted for 10% of our total net
sales in fiscal 2001, 10% of our total net sales in fiscal 2000 and 12% of our
total net sales in fiscal 1999.

     Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders
received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as
turns orders, and shipments from backlog. We have emphasized our ability to


respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy,
resulting in customers placing orders with increasingly shorter delivery
schedules. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the
orders needed to meet the revenue targets that we set entering the quarter.
Turns orders directly correlate to product lead times, which are currently
between two and four weeks, as compared to 12 to 15 weeks a year ago. Shorter
lead times has the effect of increasing turns orders as a portion of our
business in any given quarter and reducing our visibility on future product
shipments. With current lead times between two and four weeks, customers do not
place orders in advance and therefore, we do not currently have the order
visibility we experienced in the first half of fiscal 2001. The percentage of
turns orders in any given quarter is dependent on overall semiconductor industry
conditions and product lead times. As such, our percentage of turns orders has
fluctuated over the last three years between 20% and 65%. As of April 1, 2001,
we required turns orders of approximately 41% in order to achieve our projected
net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2002. As of January 1, 2001, we
required turns orders of approximately 42% to achieve our projected net sales
for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001.

     Turns orders are difficult to predict, and we may not experience the
combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in any quarter that would
be sufficient to achieve anticipated net sales. If we do not achieve a
sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter, our net sales and
operating results will suffer.

     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant, while average
selling prices of our memory products have declined over time. We have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain
microcontroller product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We have
been able to maintain average selling prices for microcontroller products by
continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices,
thereby offsetting price declines in older products. During the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2001, we initially experienced price increases in our Serial
EEPROM memories, but in the fourth quarter we experienced pricing and
competitive pressures which resulted in price reductions of approximately ten
percent (10%) as compared to the prior quarter. We expect that such market
conditions affecting Serial EEPROM pricing will continue during fiscal 2002. We
may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller or
other products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which
would reduce our operating results.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE LEVEL OF TURNS ORDERS REQUIRED TO
MEET OUR REVENUE TARGETS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER OF FISCAL 2002, AVERAGE SELLING
PRICES AND PRICING PRESSURES ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE
LEVEL OF ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER; INVENTORY MIX
AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICING
AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY; CUSTOMERS' INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND
SEASONALITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE
MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND
THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION
YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN
PRODUCT MIX; AND ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER FIXED MANUFACTURING
COSTS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL
FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

     Distributors accounted for 65% of our net sales to customers in fiscal
2001, 63% of our net sales to customers in fiscal 2000 and 59% of our net sales
to customers in fiscal 1999. Sales to foreign customers represented 68% of our
total net sales in fiscal 2001, 68% in fiscal 2000 and 69% in fiscal 1999. Our
sales to foreign customers have been predominantly in Asia and Europe, which we
attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive,
communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Sales to
customers in Europe represented 31%, 31% and 30% of total net sales in the
fiscal years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. Sales to customers in Asia
represented 36%, 34% and 36% of total net sales in the fiscal years ended March
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. The majority of our foreign sales are U.S. Dollar
denominated. We enter into hedging transactions from time to time to minimize
exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which
we conduct significant foreign operations have had a highly inflationary economy
in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or
fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations
will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.


     Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors
that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our
control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:

     *    demand for our products in the distribution and OEM channels
     *    the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter
          (turns orders)
     *    market acceptance both of our products and our customers' products
     *    customer order patterns and seasonality
     *    disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly services
     *    availability of manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in
          manufacturing yields
     *    the availability and cost of raw materials, equipment and other
          supplies, and
     *    economic, political and other conditions in the worldwide markets
          served by us.

     We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are
not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any comparisons as
indications of future performance. In future periods, our operating results may
fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would
likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.

     GROSS PROFIT

     Our gross profit was $380.7 million in fiscal 2001, $283.4 million in
fiscal 2000 and $220.6 million in fiscal 1999. Gross profit as a percent of
sales was 53.2% in fiscal 2001, 51.3% in fiscal 2000 and 47.9% in fiscal 1999.
The most significant factors affecting gross profit percentage in the periods
covered by this report were:

     *    increased 8-inch wafer production levels
     *    continued cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test
          manufacturing
     *    a stable pricing market for microcontroller products, and
     *    the product mix of microcontroller products and related memory
          products.

     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we announced plans to reduce
cumulative wafer capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by 24% in response to business
conditions that resulted in lower demand for our products. We believe overall
gross margins will be negatively impacted by this capacity reduction due to the
relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing,
which continue even at lower capacity levels.

     Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we incurred charges to cost
of sales of $7.0 million for inventory write-downs of serial EEPROM products and
analog products. These charges were primarily related to inventory obsolescence
associated with reduced demand for these products.

     We have currently cancelled or pushed out capital expenditures to realign
our capacity to reflect our current assessment of market conditions. The
projected August 2001 start-up date of Fab 3 has been delayed until December
2002. We will maintain Fab 3 at a minimum cost basis until it is required for
capacity expansion.

     We continue to transition products to our 0.7-micron and 0.5-micron process
technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2001, products
produced on 8-inch wafers grew from 55% at the beginning of the fiscal year to
80% at the end of the fiscal year. We anticipate that gross product margins will
fluctuate over time, driven primarily by the product mix of microcontroller
products and related memory products, manufacturing yields, fixed cost
absorption, wafer fab loading levels and competitive and economic conditions.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE IMPACT OF CAPACITY REDUCTIONS ON
OUR FUTURE GROSS MARGINS, THE ANTICIPATED START-UP DATE OF FAB 3, THE TRANSITION
TO HIGHER YIELDING MANUFACTURING PROCESSES, AND ANTICIPATED GROSS PROFIT MARGINS
ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE
OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS,
PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; COST AND AVAILABILITY
OF RAW MATERIALS; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT
MANUFACTURING COSTS; THE ABILITY TO INCREASE MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AS NEEDED;
THE TIMING AND SUCCESS OF MANUFACTURING PROCESS TRANSITION; DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURE ON PRICING; CHANGES IN PRODUCT
MIX; AND OTHER ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1
- - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,"
BEGINNING AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.


     Currently, the majority of our assembly operations, and a portion of our
test requirements, is performed by third-party contractors located throughout
Asia. The balance of the assembly and test operations is performed at our
Thailand facility. As of March 31, 2001 and March 31, 2000, approximately 45% of
our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility.
Approximately 95% of our test requirements were being performed in our Thailand
facility as of March 31, 2001, as compared to 90% as of March 31, 2000. We
believe that the assembly and test operations that we perform in our Thailand
facility provide us with significant cost savings, as compared to third-party
contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control of the
manufacturing process.

     Our reliance on third parties involves some reduction in our level of
control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review
the quality, delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our
future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at
approximately their current levels.

     Our reliance on foreign operations, maintenance of substantially all of our
finished goods in inventory at foreign locations, and significant foreign sales
exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including:

     *    political, social and economic instability
     *    trade restrictions and changes in tariffs
     *    import and export license requirements and restrictions
     *    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
     *    disruptions in international transport or delivery
     *    fluctuations in currency exchange rates
     *    difficulties in collecting receivables, and
     *    potentially adverse tax consequences.

     To date, we have not experienced any significant interruptions in our
foreign business operations. If any of these risks materialize, our sales could
decrease and our operations performance could suffer.

     Various industry experts are forecasting a recession and a general economic
slowdown in the United States. There are recent indications that various
countries in Asia and Europe may also be experiencing a general economic
slowdown. Because of our reliance on foreign sales and operations, an economic
slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us may harm our business.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including
development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process
technology. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining
our competitive position. We expense all research and development costs as
incurred. We increased our level of research and development costs in fiscal
2001 to $78.6 million, as compared to $52.4 million fiscal 2000 and $46.4
million in fiscal 1999. The dollar investment in research and development in
fiscal 2001 increased by 50.1% from fiscal 2000, and by 12.9% in fiscal 2000
compared to fiscal 1999. The primary reason for the dollar increases in research
and development costs in the periods covered by this report was the increased
labor and recruitment costs associated with expanding our technical resources.
Research and development costs represented 11.0% of sales in fiscal 2001 as
compared to 9.5% of sales in fiscal 2000 and 10.1% of sales in fiscal 1999.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

     During fiscal 2001, we increased our level of selling, general and
administrative costs to $102.6 million, as compared to $86.8 million in fiscal
2000 and $72.5 million in fiscal 1999. The primary reason for the dollar
increase in selling, general, and administrative costs from the previous fiscal
years was the labor and recruitment costs associated with expanding our
employment base to support the growth of our business. Selling, general and
administrative costs represented 14.4% of sales in fiscal 2001 as compared to
15.7% of sales in each of the previous two fiscal years. Selling, general and
administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and profit
levels. We currently anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses for
the first quarter of fiscal 2002, ending June 30, 2001, to be approximately flat
with the selling, general and administrative expense levels of the quarter ended
March 31, 2001.


     THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATED TO THE ANTICIPATED LEVEL OF SELLING,
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES IN THE FIRST QUARTER OF FISCAL 2002 IS A
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE
FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: REVENUE AND PROFIT LEVELS ACHIEVED DURING THE
QUARTER; ACTUAL SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES INCURRED IN THE
QUARTER; AND GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER
"ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,"
BEGINNING AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

     SPECIAL CHARGES

     MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

     TelCom Semiconductor, Inc.

     On January 16, 2001, we completed our merger with TelCom, a company with a
diversified portfolio of high performance analog and mixed-signal integrated
circuits for a wide variety of applications in the wireless communications,
networking, computer and industrial markets. Under the terms of the merger
agreement, we exchanged each share of TelCom common stock for 0.53 of a share of
Microchip common stock. We issued 9,801,456 shares of Microchip common stock and
assumed all outstanding TelCom stock options. The transaction was structured as
a tax-free reorganization and is being accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     During the March 2001 quarter, we recognized a special charge of $10.9
million for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs included:

     *    $7.3 million associated with investment banking fees
     *    $1.6 million associated with legal and accounting fees,
     *    $0.9 million of severance costs, and
     *    $1.1 million related to other costs.

     M.E.A.D. Microelectronics, S.A.

     On August 25, 2000, TelCom acquired the assets, including cash, and assumed
the liabilities of, M.E.A.D. Microelectronics, S.A. (MEAD), an engineering
design company located in Switzerland, for $1.5 million in cash in a transaction
accounted for as a purchase. The purchase agreement obligates us to pay an
additional $1.1 million to the former sole shareholder of MEAD in quarterly
installments of $92,000, contingent upon the shareholder's continued employment
with MEAD. As of March 31, 2001, $0.9 million of the $1.1 million was still
outstanding. In addition, TelCom granted options to acquire 150,000 shares of
TelCom's common stock to the sole shareholder and key employees of MEAD. These
stock options have been converted to options to acquire 79,500 shares of
Microchip common stock. The allocation of the purchase price, based on the fair
value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, resulted in goodwill of
$1.3 million, which is being amortized over three years. During the year ended
March 31, 2001, we recognized goodwill amortization expense of $251,000, which
is included as a component of selling, general and administrative expense.

     In conjunction with this acquisition, TelCom entered into a revenue sharing
agreement with certain individuals, including the shareholder and key employees
of MEAD, which obligates us to pay royalties related to the sale of specified
products and to pay a percentage of non-recurring engineering revenues earned on
specified contracts. Payments associated with this revenue sharing agreement
were $272,000 in fiscal 2001.

     LEGAL SETTLEMENT WITH LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.

     On January 13, 1998, we finalized a settlement of patent litigation with
Lucent Technologies Inc. resulting in a $5,000,000 special charge during the
quarter ended December 31, 1997. Under the terms of the settlement, we made a
one-time cash payment to Lucent and issued to Lucent a warrant to acquire
675,000 shares of our common stock at $11.22 per share. The terms of the
settlement also provided for a contingent payment to Lucent if our earnings per
share performance for the three and one-half year period ending June 30, 2001
did not meet certain targeted levels. Based on the estimate of earnings per
share for the measurement period as of March 31, 1999, we provided appropriate
reserves to meet this liability. Due to the sale of the warrant by the holder,
the associated reserve became unnecessary and $3.6 million of the special charge
was reversed in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. We also recorded a special
charge related to other legal issues in the amount of $1.2 million in the
quarter ended September 30, 1999.


     RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

     Fiscal 2001

     During the March 2001 quarter, we implemented capacity and cost reduction
actions necessitated by the downturn in the semiconductor industry. We reduced
cumulative wafer fab capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by approximately 24%. We also
decided to close the Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the TelCom
transaction, and migrate these test requirements to our Thailand test facility.
The capacity reduction at Fabs 1 and 2 was completed by the end of the March
2001 quarter. The closure of the Hong Kong facility will be completed by the end
of June 2001. These actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.4 million
in the March 2001 quarter. These actions were undertaken to reduce manufacturing
capacity and reduce manufacturing costs. The reduction in wafer fab capacity was
required due to reduced customer demand. The closure of the Hong Kong facility
was undertaken to rationalize our test manufacturing capacity and migrate the
test requirements to our more cost-effective test facility in Thailand. When
fully completed, it is expected that the closure of the Hong Kong facility will
reduce operating expenses by $4.4 million per year.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions was $4.0
million related to equipment that was written off, $2.1 million related to
employee severance costs and $0.3 million related to other restructuring costs.
As of March 31, 2001, $1.3 million remained of these charges, and was included
in accrued liabilities.

     Fiscal 1999

     We implemented two restructuring actions during the quarter ended March 31,
1999. First, we eliminated our 5-inch wafer line, which resulted in a
restructuring charge of $7.6 million in the March 1999 quarter. We also decided
to restructure our test operations by closing our Kaohsiung facility and
migrating that test capacity to our lower-cost Thailand facility. This action
resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.1 million in the March 1999 quarter.
These two restructuring actions were undertaken to improve manufacturing
flexibility, close our least cost-effective production capacity, and thereby
reduce operating costs.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from elimination of the
5-inch production capacity was:

     *    $6.8 million related to equipment that was written off
     *    $0.3 million related to employee severance costs, and
     *    $0.5 million related to other restructuring costs.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from the closure of the
Kaohsiung facility was $5.6 million related to employee severance costs and $0.5
million related to other restructuring costs.

     Included in the special charge recorded in the quarter ended March 31, 1999
was $1.8 million related to two legal settlements associated with intellectual
property matters, and $0.4 million related to restructure of a portion of our
sales infrastructure.

     During the quarter ended June 30, 1998, we recognized a special charge of
$3.8 million, which was comprised of a $3.3 million legal settlement with
another company involving an intellectual property dispute, and a $0.5 million
charge associated with the restructuring of a portion of our sales organization.
We also incurred charges of $1.7 million for write-off of products obsoleted by
the introduction of newer products, charging this to cost of goods sold.

     All restructuring reserves relating to the fiscal 1999 actions have been
fully utilized.

     TELCOM RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

     Fiscal 2000

     TelCom recorded restructuring charges in its quarter ended March 31, 1999
of $0.3 million, primarily for employee severance costs. These charges are
reflected in our fiscal 2000 operating results. All restructuring reserves
relating to these charges have been fully utilized.


     Fiscal 1999

     In August 1998, TelCom announced plans to shut down its five-inch wafer
fabrication facility in Mountain View, California and use third-party foundries
for all of its wafer fabrication. In conjunction with the shut-down of its wafer
fabrication facility, TelCom recorded fab closure charges totaling $6.5 million,
predominately associated with the write-down and write-off of manufacturing
equipment and facilities improvements. TelCom recorded one-time charges
associated with its manufacturing restructuring of $0.7 million. All
restructuring reserves relating to these charges have been fully utilized.

     KEELOQ(R) HOPPING CODE

     On November 17, 1995, we acquired the Keeloq(R) hopping code technology and
patents developed by Nanoteq Ltd. of the Republic of South Africa, and marketing
rights related thereto. The acquisition of Keeloq was treated as an asset
purchase for accounting purposes. The amount paid for Keeloq, including related
costs, was $12.9 million. In December 1995, we wrote off $11.4 million, which
represented the portion of the purchase price relating to in-process research
and development costs, as well as all acquisition-related expenses. The
remaining $1.5 million was capitalized as purchased technology. The amount of
the purchased technology was determined by applying a discounted cash flow model
to the expected future revenue stream of the products acquired.

     In March 1999, a second cash payment of $10.3 million was made in
accordance with the terms of the original purchase agreement, and was
capitalized as purchased technology. In addition, $1.1 million of legal costs
paid to defend the Keeloq(R) intellectual property was also capitalized,
resulting in a total net carrying amount of $11.9 million, including $0.5
million of residual asset value capitalized a part of the initial payment, as of
March 31, 1999. Although we were obligated to make this second payment, we were
concerned that the recoverability of the carrying amount of the technology asset
might not be recoverable due to change in the forecasted cash flows related to
the Keeloq products. In accordance with SFAS 121, Accounting for the Impairment
of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of, paragraphs 4
through 11, we prepared an undiscounted cash flow analysis at March 31, 1999,
which determined that the value of the Keeloq technology was impaired. We
measured the impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the
fair value of the asset, which was deemed to be $4.3 million, resulting in an
impairment write-down of $7.6 million. The value of the purchased technology
remaining at March 31, 1999 of $4.3 million is being amortized over 3 years, the
remaining life of the technology.

     OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Interest income in fiscal 2001 increased from fiscal 2000 as a result of
higher invested cash balances due primarily to the receipt of proceeds of $114.0
million from our follow-on public offering completed in March 2000 and the
receipt of proceeds of $79.5 million from TelCom's follow-on public offering
completed in March 2000. Interest expense in fiscal 2001 decreased from fiscal
2000 as a result of lower borrowing levels under our credit facilities. Other
income includes gains on the sale of fixed assets of $1.3 million as well as
other immaterial non-operating items.

     PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and
state tax on U.S. earnings. Our effective tax rate was 27.2% in fiscal 2001,
25.5% in fiscal 2000 and 29.5% in fiscal 1999, due primarily to lower tax rates
at our foreign locations. We believe that our tax rate for the foreseeable
future will be approximately 27%.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENT REGARDING OUR ANTICIPATED FUTURE TAX RATE IS A
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE
FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CURRENT TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; TAXATION
RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS; AND CURRENT
TAX HOLIDAYS AVAILABLE IN FOREIGN LOCATIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH
UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

EURO CONVERSION ISSUES

     We operate in the European Market and currently generate approximately one
third of our total net sales from customers located in Europe. Our commercial
headquarters in Europe are located in the United Kingdom, which is currently not
one of the 11 member states of the European Union converting to a common
currency.


     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we conducted 98.3% of our
European business in U.S. Dollars and 0.4% of our business in Europe in Pounds
Sterling. The balance of our net sales is conducted in currencies which will
eventually be replaced by the Euro. We will monitor the potential commercial
impact of converting a portion of our current business to the Euro, but we do
not currently anticipate any material impact to our business based on this
transition. We do not currently anticipate any material impact to our business
related to Euro matters from information technology, derivative transactions,
tax issues or accounting software issues.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE ANTICIPATED IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS
DUE TO TRANSITION TO THE EURO CURRENCY ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL
RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS:
SALES LEVELS IN COUNTRIES WHERE THE EURO CURRENCY HAS BEEN ADOPTED; CURRENCY
FLUCTUATIONS; COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED WITH EURO TRADING; AND THE COST
OF ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES OR SOFTWARE THAT MIGHT BE
NECESSARY TO ACCOUNT FOR EURO-RELATED ISSUES. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH
UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS," BEGINNING ON PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     We had $129.9 million in cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2001, a
decrease of $78.9 million from the March 31, 2000 balance. During the fiscal
year ended March 31, 2001, we maintained an unsecured line of credit with a
syndicate of domestic banks totaling $100.0 million. We can elect to increase
the facility to $150.0 million, subject to certain conditions set forth in the
credit agreement. This facility terminates on May 31, 2003. There were no
borrowings against the line of credit as of March 31, 2001. We are required to
achieve certain financial ratios and operations results to maintain the domestic
line of credit. We were in compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 2001.
We also maintain an unsecured short-term line of credit totaling $34.6 million
with certain foreign banks. There were no borrowings under the foreign line of
credit as of March 31, 2001. There are no covenants related to the foreign line
of credit. At March 31, 2001, an aggregate of $133.7 million of these facilities
was available, subject to financial covenants and ratios with which we were in
compliance. Our ability to fully utilize these facilities is dependent on our
remaining in compliance with such covenants and ratios.

     During the year ended March 31, 2001, we generated $254.4 million of cash
from operating activities, an increase of $7.5 million from the year ended March
31, 2000, and an increase of $141.9 million from the year ended March 31, 1999.
The principal changes in cash flow from operations during fiscal 2001 was
related to increased profitability and higher depreciation, offset by the impact
of inventory valuation, changes in inventories and changes in other assets and
liabilities.

     Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of
actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $441.1
million in fiscal 2001, $214.0 million in fiscal 2000 and $45.5 million in
fiscal 1999. Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production
capacity and the addition of research and development equipment in each of these
periods. We currently intend to spend approximately $55 million during the next
12 months to invest in equipment to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity
at our existing wafer fabrication and product test facilities.

     We expect to finance capital expenditures through our cash flows from
operations and available debt arrangement. We believe that the capital
expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide
sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE ANTICIPATED LEVEL OF CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS AND THE FINANCING OF SUCH CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES, ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER
MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE CYCLICAL NATURE
OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET
ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OF OUR CUSTOMERS' PRODUCTS; DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS; UTILIZATION OF CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; THE AVAILABILITY AND
COST OF RAW MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; AND THE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL
AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE WORLDWIDE MARKETS SERVED BY US. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS
SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

     Net cash provided by financing activities was $109.5 million for fiscal
2001 and $123.4 million for fiscal 2000. Net cash used in financing activities
was $73.9 million for fiscal 1999. Proceeds from sale of stock and put options
were $118.5 million for fiscal 2001, $151.2 million for fiscal 2000 and $17.0
million for fiscal 1999. Payments on long term debt and capital lease
obligations were $5.5 million in fiscal 2000 and $7.0 million in fiscal 1999.
Repayments on lines of credit were $9.0 million and $17.5 million for the years
ended March 31, 2001 and 2000. Net proceeds from lines of credit were $3.5
million in fiscal 1999. Cash expended for the purchase of our common stock was
$4.8 million in fiscal 2000 and $87.4 million in fiscal 1999.


     In connection with a stock repurchase program, during the years ended March
31, 2000 and 1999, we purchased a total of 436,000 and 7,626,875 shares of our
common stock, respectively, in open market activities at a total cost of $4.8
million and $78.2 million, respectively. During the years ended March 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, we received 184,593, 2,748,218 and 518,794 shares, respectively,
in conjunction with the net share settled forward contract. During the years
ended March 31, 2001 and 2000, we also received $17.1 million and $10.2 million,
respectively, in conjunction with the net share settled forward contact, which
amounts were credited to additional paid-in capital. Also, in connection with a
stock repurchase program, during fiscal 1999, we sold put options for 1,350,000
shares of our common stock at prices per share which ranged from $9.91 to
$12.22. During fiscal 1999, we purchased put options for 112,500 shares. The net
proceeds from the sale and repurchase of these put options, in the amount of
$2.1 million for fiscal 1999, was credited to additional paid-in capital. During
fiscal 1999, put options for 562,500 shares were purchased at the settlement
dates at a total cost of $9.2 million. As of March 31, 2000 and 2001,
respectively, there were no outstanding put options.

     During the year ended March 31, 1999, we completed two transactions in
connection with a stock repurchase program. In April 1998, we completed a
costless collar transaction involving call options for 1,125,000 shares of our
common stock priced at $11.53 per share, and put options for 1,496,250 shares of
our common stock priced at $11.19 per share. The expiration date of the
transaction was April 28, 1999, resulting in us receiving $4.6 million which was
credited to additional paid-in capital. Also in connection with a stock
repurchase program, we completed a net share settled forward contract for
4,500,000 shares at an average price of $12.99. The expiration date of this
transaction is May 2001 with quarterly interim settlement dates. We intend to
extend this transaction for a period of one year to May 2002.

     We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated
cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. The semiconductor industry is
capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to make
significant investments in capital equipment, for both production and research
and development. Based on current market and industry conditions, we currently
do not anticipate that we will require additional equity or debt financing
during the next 12 months to fund our anticipated capital expenditures. The
timing and amount of our capital requirements will depend on a number of
factors, including demand for our products, product mix, changes in industry
conditions and competitive factors.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE SUFFICIENCY OF OUR EXISTING SOURCES
OF LIQUIDITY TO MEET OUR CURRENTLY ANTICIPATED CASH REQUIREMENTS, AND OUR
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL EQUITY OR DEBT FINANCING DURING THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE
OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR
INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND
THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; UTILIZATION OF CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; THE
AVAILABILITY AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; AND THE
ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE WORLDWIDE MARKETS SERVED BY US.
SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS
THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 9 OF THIS REPORT.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     SFAS 133

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and Similar
Financial Instruments for Hedging Activities," to establish accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities. SFAS
No. 133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value.
This new standard, as amended by related SFAS Nos. 137 and 138, will be
effective for us for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2002. We believe the
adoption of SFAS No. 133 will not have a material impact on our results of
operations.

     SAB 101

     In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." SAB
101 provides guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of
revenue in financial statements filed with the SEC and, as amended, became
effective for us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. The implementation of SAB
101 had no effect on our results of operation.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, was $130.1
million as of March 31, 2001, and $208.0 million as of March 31, 2000. These
securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk
and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates
were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from the levels of March 31,
2001 and March 31, 2000, the decline in the fair value of our investment
portfolio would not be material. Additionally, we have the ability to hold our
fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to
recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows.

     We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency
rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has
not been significant. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates
at March 31, 2001 and March 31, 2000, the effect on our financial position and
results of operation would not be material.

     During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a
variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to,
interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this
Item 7A, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these
risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the
adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not
anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made
that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The Consolidated Financial Statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 14(a)(1) hereof are filed as part of this Form 10-K. See also Index to
Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information on the members of our board of directors is incorporated herein
by reference to our proxy statement for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders
under the caption "Election of Directors."

     Information on our executive officers is provided in Item 1, Part I of this
Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers" at page 8, above.

     Information with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to our
proxy statement for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated herein
by reference to the information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in
our proxy statement for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
caption "Security Ownership of Principal Stockholders, Directors and Executive
Officers" in our proxy statement for the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions
is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption
"Certain Transactions" in our proxy statement for the 2001 annual meeting of
stockholders.


             THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

                                                                        Page No.

          (1)  Financial Statements:

               Independent Auditors' Report                                F-1

               Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
               March 31, 2001 and 2000                                     F-2

               Consolidated Statements of Income for each
               of the years in the three-year period ended
               March 31, 2001                                              F-3

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
               each of the years in the three-year period
               ended March 31, 2001                                        F-4

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
               Equity and Other Comprehensive Income
               for each of the years in the three-year period
               ended March 31, 2001                                        F-5

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                  F-6

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules - Applicable schedules
               have been omitted because information is included
               in the footnotes to the Financial Statements.

          (3)  The Exhibits filed with this Form 10-K or                   E-1
               incorporated herein by reference are set forth in the
               Exhibit Index appearing on page E-1 hereof, which
               Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by this reference.

     (b)  We filed a current report on Form 8-K on January 16, 2001 reporting
          the closing of our merger with TelCom.

     (c)  See Item 14(a)(3) above.

     (d)  See "Index to Financial Statements" included under Item 8 to this Form
          10-K.


                                   SIGNATURES

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                      MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                      (Registrant)

                                      BY: /s/ Steve Sanghi
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Steve Sanghi
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:  May 15, 2001

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.

Name and Signature                          Title                       Date
- ------------------                          -----                       ----

/s/ Steve Sanghi             Director, President and                May 15, 2001
- ------------------------     Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi

Albert J. Hugo-Martinez*     Director                               May 15, 2001

L. B. Day*                   Director                               May 15, 2001

Matthew W. Chapman*          Director                               May 15, 2001

Wade F. Meyercord*           Director                               May 15, 2001

/s/ Gordon W. Parnell        Vice President and Chief Financial     May 15, 2001
- ------------------------     Officer (Principal Financial
Gordon W. Parnell            and Accounting Officer)

*By: /s/ Steve Sanghi        Individually and as Attorney-in-fact   May 15, 2001
     -------------------
     Steve Sanghi


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION                             PAGE NO.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

2.1         Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000
            between Registrant and Matsushita Semiconductor
            Corporation of America [Incorporated by reference to
            Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as of July 26,
            2000]

2.1.1       Addendum dated June 20, 2000 to Purchase and Sale
            Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000 between Registrant
            and Matsushita Semiconductor Corporation of America
            [Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form
            8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as of July 26, 2000]

2.1.2       Addendum dated July 10, 2000 to Purchase and Sale
            Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000 between Registrant
            and Matsushita Semiconductor Corporation of America
            [Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form
            8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as of July 26, 2000]

2.1.3       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of
            October 26, 2000 by and among Registrant, Matchbox
            Acquisition Corp. and TelCom Semiconductor, Inc.
            [Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form
            8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange
            Commission as of October 26, 2000]

3.1         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to
            Registration Statement No. 33-70608]

3.1.1       Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 3.3.1 to the Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
            31, 1994]

3.1.2       Certificate of Designation of Rights, Preferences and
            Privileges of Series A Participating Preferred Stock
            of Registrant [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            No. 3.1.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995]

3.1.3       Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 1 to Registrant's Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
            30, 1995]

3.1.4       Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's Certificate
            of Incorporation [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997]

3.1.5       Amended Certificate of Designations of Rights,
            Preferences and Privileges of Series A Participating
            Preferred Stock of Registrant [Incorporated by
            reference to Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with
            the Securities and Exchange Commission as of October
            12, 1999]

3.1.6       Certificate of Amendment to Registrant's Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 3.1 to Registrant's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            September 30, 2000]

                                       E-1

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION                             PAGE NO.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

3.2         Amended and Restated By-Laws of Registrant, as
            amended through August 20, 1999 [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 3.1 to Registrant's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
            September 30, 1999]

3.3         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging ASIC
            Technical Solutions, Inc. into Microchip Technology
            Incorporated

3.4         Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging TelCom
            Semiconductor, Inc. with and into Microchip
            Technology Incorporated

4.1         Amended and Restated Preferred Shares Rights
            Agreement, dated as of October 11, 1999, between
            Registrant and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.,
            including the Amended Certificate of Designations,
            the form of Rights Certificate and the Summary of
            Rights, attached as exhibits thereto [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 1 to Registrant's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A as filed with the
            Securities and Exchange Commission as of October 12,
            1999]

10.1        Form of Indemnification Agreement between Registrant
            and its directors and certain of its officers
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to
            Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

10.2        Amended and Restated 1989 Stock Option Plan
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.14 to
            Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

10.3        1993 Stock Option Plan, as Amended Through August 18,
            2000 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.4
            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
            quarter ended September 30, 2000]

10.4        Form of Notice of Grant For 1993 Stock Option Plan,
            with Exhibit A thereto, Form of Stock Option
            Agreement; and Exhibit B thereto, Form of Stock
            Purchase Agreement [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 10.6 Registration Statement No. 333-872]

10.5        Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as Amended
            Though August 18, 2000 [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000]

10.6        Form of Stock Purchase Agreement for Employee Stock
            Purchase Plan [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            No. 10.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-872]

10.7        Form of Enrollment Form For Employee Stock Purchase
            Plan [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3
            to Registration Statement No. 333-872]

10.8        Form of Change Form For Employee Stock Purchase Plan
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.4 to
            Registration Statement No. 333-872]

10.9        Form of Executive Officer Severance Agreement
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.7 to
            Registration Statement No. 333-872]

                                       E-2

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION                             PAGE NO.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

10.10       Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2000 among
            Registrant, the Banks named therein, Bank One, NA, as
            LC Issuer and Administrative Agent, Wells Fargo Bank,
            National Association, as Syndication Agent and Bank
            of America, N.A., as Documentation Agent
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.10 to
            Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
            fiscal year ended March 31, 2000]

10.11       Modification Agreement dated as of August 31, 2000 to
            the Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2000 by and
            among Registrant, the Banks named therein, Bank One,
            NA, as LC Issuer and Administrative Agent, Wells
            Fargo Bank, National Association, as Syndication
            Agent and Bank of America, N.A., as Documentation
            Agent [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1
            to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
            quarter ended September 30, 2000]

10.12       Development Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997 by
            and between Registrant and the City of Chandler,
            Arizona [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
            10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
            for the quarter ended December 31, 1997]

10.13       Development Agreement dated as of July 17, 1997 by
            and between Registrant and the City of Tempe, Arizona
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to
            Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
            quarter ended December 31, 1997]

10.14       Addendum to Development Agreement by and between
            Registrant and the City of Tempe, Arizona, dated May
            11, 2000

10.15       1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as Amended
            Through August 18, 2000 [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 10.3 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000]

10.16       Form of Notice of Grant For 1997 Nonstatutory Stock
            Option Plan, with Exhibit A thereto, Form of Stock
            Option Agreement [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 10.17 to Registrant's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1998]

10.17       International Employee Stock Purchase Plan as Amended
            Through April 25, 1997 [Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 10 to Registration Statement No.
            333-40791]

10.18       TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan and
            forms of agreements thereunder [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to Registration
            Statement No. 333-53876]

10.19       TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 1996 Director Option Plan
            and forms of agreements used thereunder [Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit No. 4.2 to Registration
            Statement No. 333-53876]

10.20       TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 2000 Nonstatutory Stock
            Option Plan and forms of agreements used thereunder
            [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to
            Registration Statement No. 333-53876]

                                       E-3

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.                     DESCRIPTION                             PAGE NO.
- -----------                     -----------                             --------

21.1        Subsidiaries of Registrant [Incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit No. 21.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2000]

23.1        Consent of KPMG LLP

24.1        Power of Attorney re: Microchip Technology
            Incorporated, the Registrant [Incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit No. 24.1 to Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
            31, 2000]

                                      E-4

                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                   Item 8, Item 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

                        ---------------------------------


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    EXHIBITS

                        ---------------------------------

                            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2001

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CHANDLER, ARIZONA

               Microchip technology incorporated and subsidiaries

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------

Independent Auditor's Report                                            F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of March 31, 2001 and 2000                                           F-2

Consolidated Statements of Income
for each of the years in the three-year
period ended March 31, 2001                                             F-3

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
for each of the years in the three-year
period ended March 31, 2001                                             F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and
Other Comprehensive Income for each of the years
in the three-year period ended March 31, 2001                           F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                              F-6

                                       i

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Microchip Technology Incorporated:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microchip
Technology Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2001 and 2000, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and other
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended March 31, 2001. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Microchip Technology
Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended March 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.


                                           /s/ KPMG LLP

Phoenix, Arizona
April 30, 2001

                                      F-1

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                       (in thousands except share amounts)

                                     ASSETS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                     (in thousands except per share amounts)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (in thousands)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                         AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF BUSINESS

     Microchip develops and manufactures specialized semiconductor products used
     by its customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
     Microchip's product portfolio comprises field-programmable RISC-based
     microcontrollers that serve 8- and 16-bit embedded control applications,
     and a broad spectrum of high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power
     management and thermal management devices. Microchip also offers
     complementary microperipheral products including interface devices, Serial
     EEPROMS, and the patented KEELOQ(R) security devices. Products are marketed
     to the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial
     control markets.

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip
     Technology Incorporated and its wholly-owned subsidiaries ("Microchip" or
     the "Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
     been eliminated in consolidation.

     On January 16, 2001, the Company merged with TelCom. The merger has been
     accounted for as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, the consolidated
     financial statements have been restated to include the operations of TelCom
     for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, thus
     the consolidated financial statements presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999
     have been combined with the operations of TelCom as of and for the years
     ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The 2000 operations of
     TelCom have been conformed to a March 31 year end, thus the consolidated
     statements of cash flows and stockholders' equity for March 31, 2001
     include an adjustment of $3,679,000 which represents the net income of
     TelCom for the quarter ended March 31, 2000.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     All highly liquid investments, including marketable securities purchased
     with an original maturity of three months or less, are considered to be
     cash equivalents.

     INVENTORIES

     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in,
     first-out (FIFO) method.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and
     improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed
     when incurred. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the
     estimated useful lives of the related assets which range from three to
     twenty-five years.

     Assets acquired under capital lease arrangements have been recorded at the
     present value of the future minimum lease payments and are being amortized
     on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset or the
     lease term, whichever is shorter. Amortization of this equipment is
     included in depreciation and amortization expense.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND FORWARD CONTRACTS

     The Company's foreign subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of the
     U.S. Company and any translation gains and losses related to these
     subsidiaries are included in other income and expense. As the U.S. Dollar
     is utilized as the functional currency, gains and losses resulting from
     foreign currency transactions (transactions denominated in a currency other
     than the subsidiaries' functional currency) are also included in income.
     Gains and losses associated with currency rate changes on forward contracts
     are recorded currently in income.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenue from product sales to original equipment manufacturers and from
     sales to distributors who have no, or limited, product return rights and no
     price protection rights, is recognized upon shipment net of allowances for
     estimated returns. When distributors have rights to return products and
     price protection rights, the Company defers revenue recognition until the
     distributor sells the product to the end customer. Upon shipment by the
     Company, amounts billed to distributors with rights to product returns and
     price protection rights are included as accounts receivable, inventory is

                                      F-6

     relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a
     current liability until the product is sold by the distributors to their
     customers.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

     INCOME TAXES

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
     consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
     carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective
     tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
     tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these
     temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

     COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME PER SHARE

     In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standard No. 128, EARNINGS PER SHARE ("SFAS No. 128").
     SFAS No. 128 replaced the calculation of primary and fully diluted earnings
     per share with basic and diluted earnings per share. Unlike primary
     earnings per share, basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive effects
     of options, warrants and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share
     is very similar to the previously reported fully diluted earnings per
     share. All earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented
     and, where appropriate, restated to conform to the SFAS No. 128
     requirements.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived
     assets in accordance with SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
     Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," based upon
     the estimated cash flows to be generated by the related asset. The
     evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which there are
     identifiable, independent cash flows.

     STOCK OPTION PLANS

     Prior to April 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option plans in
     accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
     Opinion No. 25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES, and related
     interpretations. As such, compensation expense would be recorded only if,
     on the date of grant, the current market price of the underlying stock
     exceeded the exercise price and would be recorded on a straight-line basis
     over the vesting period. On April 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No.
     123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION, ("SFAS No. 123") which
     permits entities to recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair
     value of all stock-based awards on the date of grant. Alternatively, SFAS
     No. 123 also allows entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB
     Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per
     share disclosures for employee stock option grants made in fiscal 1996 and
     future years as if the fair-value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had
     been applied. The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions
     of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of
     SFAS No. 123.

     EQUITY DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

     The Company utilizes put options and a net share settled forward contract
     for the sale and repurchase of common stock. Amounts paid and proceeds
     received from these instruments are recorded as components of additional
     paid-in capital.

     USE OF ESTIMATES

     The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the
     reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure
     of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these financial statements
     in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results
     could differ from those estimates.

                                      F-7

     SFAS 133

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and
     Similar Financial Instruments for Hedging Activities," to establish
     accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for
     hedging activities. SFAS No. 133 requires that an entity recognize all
     derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and
     measure those instruments at fair value. This new standard, as amended by
     related SFAS Nos. 137 and 138, will be effective for the Company for its
     fiscal year ending March 31, 2002. The Company believes the adoption of
     SFAS No. 133 will not have a material impact on its results of operations.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain 2000 and 1999 fiscal year balances have been reclassified to
     conform to the fiscal year 2001 presentation.

2.   SPECIAL CHARGES

     MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

     TELCOM SEMICONDUCTOR, INC.

     On January 16, 2001, the Company completed its merger with TelCom, a
     company with a diversified portfolio of high performance analog and
     mixed-signal integrated circuits for a wide variety of applications in the
     wireless communications, networking, computer and industrial markets. Under
     the terms of the merger agreement, each share of TelCom common stock was
     exchanged for 0.53 of a share of Microchip common stock. The Company issued
     9,801,456 shares of its common stock and assumed all outstanding TelCom
     stock options. The merger was structured as a tax-free reorganization and
     is being accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     During the March 2001 quarter, the Company recognized a special charge of
     $10,949,000 for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs
     included: $7,306,000 associated with investment banking fees; $1,607,000
     associated with legal and accounting fees; $912,000 related to severance
     costs; and $1,124,000 related to other merger costs.



     M.E.A.D. MICROELECTRONICS, S.A.

     On August 25, 2000, TelCom acquired the assets, including cash, and assumed
     the liabilities of M.E.A.D. Microelectronics, S.A. (MEAD), an engineering
     design company located in Switzerland, for $1.5 million in cash in a
     transaction accounted for as a purchase. The purchase agreement obligates
     the Company to pay an additional $1,100,000 to the former sole shareholder
     of MEAD in quarterly installments of $92,000, contingent upon the
     shareholder's continued employment with MEAD. As of March 31, 2001,
     $917,000 of the $1,100,000 was still outstanding. In addition, TelCom
     granted options to acquire 150,000 shares of TelCom's common stock to the
     sole shareholder and key employees of MEAD. These stock options were
     converted to options to acquire 79,500 shares of Microchip common stock
     upon the Company's merger with TelCom. The allocation of the purchase
     price, based on the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed
     liabilities, resulted in goodwill of $1,290,000, which is being amortized
     over three years. During the year ended March 31, 2001, the Company
     recognized goodwill amortization expense of $251,000, which is included as
     a component of selling, general and administrative expense.

     In conjunction with the acquisition, TelCom entered into a revenue sharing
     agreement with certain individuals, including the shareholder and key
     employees of MEAD, which obligates the Company to pay royalties related to

                                      F-8

     the sale of specified products and to pay a percentage of non-recurring
     engineering revenues earned on specified contracts. Payments associated
     with this revenue sharing agreement were $272,000 in Fiscal 2001.

     LEGAL SETTLEMENT WITH LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.

     On January 13, 1998, the Company finalized a settlement of patent
     litigation with Lucent Technologies Inc. resulting in the Company recording
     a $5,000,000 special charge during the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
     Under the terms of the settlement, Microchip made a one-time cash payment
     to Lucent and issued to Lucent a warrant to acquire 675,000 shares of
     Common Stock of the Company priced at $11.22 per share. The terms of the
     settlement also provided for the Company to make a contingent payment to
     Lucent if the Company's earnings per share performance for the three and
     one-half year period ending June 30, 2001 did not meet certain targeted
     levels. Based on the estimate of earnings per share for the measurement
     period as of March 31, 1999, we provided appropriate reserves to meet this
     liability. Due to the sale of the warrant by the holder, the associated
     reserve became unnecessary and $3,600,000 of the special charge was
     reversed in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. The Company also recorded
     a special charge related to other legal issues in the amount of $1,200,000
     in the quarter ended September 30, 1999.

     RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

     FISCAL 2001

     During the March 2001 quarter the Company implemented capacity and cost
     reduction actions related to adverse business conditions in the
     semiconductor industry. The Company reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity
     at its manufacturing locations in Chandler and Tempe, Arizona by
     approximately 24%. The Company also decided to close its Hong Kong test
     facility, acquired as part of the TelCom transaction, and migrate these
     test requirements to its test facility located in Bangkok, Thailand. The
     capacity reduction at the Company's wafer fabs was completed by the end of
     the March 2001 quarter, and the closure of the Hong Kong facility will be
     completed by the end of the fiscal 2002 June quarter. These actions
     resulted in a restructuring charge of $6,409,000 in the March 2001 quarter.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions was
     $2,149,000 related to employee severance costs and $305,000 related to
     other restructuring costs.



     The Company expects the remaining restructuring costs to be paid during
     fiscal 2002.

     The balance of the charges relating to restructuring costs was non-cash
     items for $3,955,000, related to equipment that was written off.

     FISCAL 1999

     The Company implemented two restructuring actions during the quarter ended
     March 31, 1999. First, the Company eliminated its 5-inch wafer line, which
     represented the Company's least flexible and least cost-effective
     production capacity. This action resulted in a restructuring charge of
     $7,561,000 in the March 1999 quarter. The Company also decided to
     restructure its test operations by closing its Kaohsiung facility and
     migrating that test capacity to its lower-cost Thailand facility. This
     action resulted in a restructuring charge of $6,089,000 in the March 1999
     quarter.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from elimination of the
     5-inch production capacity was $6,758,000 related to equipment that was
     written off, $310,000 related to employee severance costs and $493,000
     related to other restructuring costs. Included in the restructuring charges
     resulting from the closure of the Kaohsiung facility was $5,579,000 related
     to employee severance costs and $510,000 related to other restructuring
     costs.

                                      F-9

     Included in the special charge the Company recorded in the quarter ended
     March 31, 1999 was $1,805,000 related to two legal settlements associated
     with intellectual property matters, and $350,000 related to the restructure
     of a portion of the Company's sales infrastructure.

     During the quarter ended June 30, 1998, the Company recognized a special
     charge of $3,800,000, which was comprised of a $3,300,000 legal settlement
     with another company involving an intellectual property dispute and a
     $500,000 charge associated with the restructuring of a portion of the
     Company's sales organization. Also, during the quarter ended June 30, 1998
     the Company took a charge of $1,700,000 for write-off of products obsoleted
     by the introduction of newer products, charging this to cost of goods sold.

     All restructuring reserves relating to the Fiscal 1999 actions have been
     fully utilized.

     TELCOM RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

     FISCAL 2000

     TelCom recorded restructuring charges in its quarter ended March 31, 1999
     of $269,000 primarily for employee severance costs. These charges are
     reflected in the Company's fiscal 2000 operating results. All restructuring
     reserves relating to these charges have been fully utilized.

     FISCAL 1999

     In August 1998, TelCom announced its plans to shut down its five-inch wafer
     fabrication facility in Mountain View, California and use third party
     foundries for all of its wafer fabrication. In conjunction with the
     shut-down of its wafer fabrication facility, TelCom recorded fab closure
     charges totaling $6,515,000, predominately associated with the write-down
     and write-off of manufacturing equipment and facilities improvements.
     TelCom recorded one-time charges associated with its manufacturing
     restructuring of $743,000. All restructuring reserves relating to these
     charges have been fully utilized.

     KEELOQ(R) HOPPING CODE

     On November 17, 1995, the Company acquired the Keeloq(R) hopping code
     technology and patents developed by Nanoteq Ltd. of the Republic of South
     Africa, and marketing rights related thereto. The acquisition of Keeloq was
     treated as an asset purchase for accounting purposes. The amount paid for
     Keeloq, including related costs, was $12,948,000. In December 1995, the
     Company wrote off $11,448,000, which represented the portion of the
     purchase price relating to in-process research and development costs, as
     well as all acquisition-related expenses. The remaining $1,500,000 was
     capitalized as purchased technology. The amount of the purchased technology
     was determined by applying a discounted cash flow model to the expected
     future revenue stream of the products acquired.

     In March 1999, a second cash payment of $10,250,000 was made in accordance
     with the terms of the original purchase agreement, and was capitalized as
     purchased technology. In addition, $1,107,000 of legal costs paid to defend
     the Keeloq(R) intellectual property was also capitalized, resulting in a
     total net carrying amount of $11,882,000 including the $525,000 of residual
     asset value capitalized a part of the initial payment, as of March 31,
     1999. Although the Company was obligated to make this second payment, it
     was concerned that the recoverability of the carrying amount of the
     technology asset might not be recoverable due to change in the forecasted
     cash flows related to the Keeloq products. In accordance with SFAS 121,
     ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND FOR LONG LIVED
     ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF, paragraphs 4 through 11, the Company prepared an
     undiscounted cash flow analysis at March 31, 1999, which determined that
     the value of the Keeloq technology was impaired. The Company measured the
     impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair
     value of the asset, which was deemed to be $4,250,000, resulting in an
     impairment write-down of $7,632,000. The value of the purchased technology
     remaining at March 31, 1999 of $4,250,000 is being amortized over 3 years,
     the remaining life of the technology.

                                      F-10

3.   GAIN ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS

     During the quarter ended March 31, 1999, TelCom recognized a gain of
     $5,000,000 on the sale of its investment in IC WORKS. This gain is reported
     in the Company's March 31, 2000 financial statements because TelCom's 1999
     calendar year results are combined with Microchip's March 31, 2000 fiscal
     year results for purposes of this report. IC WORKS was purchased by Cypress
     Semiconductor, Inc., a publicly held company and, as part of the purchase
     agreement between IC WORKS and Cypress Semiconductor, TelCom's preferred
     shares, with a book value of $1,500,000, were exchanged for common shares
     of Cypress Semiconductor with a fair market value of $6,500,000. During the
     quarter ended June 30, 1999, the Company sold all of the shares it held,
     except shares held in escrow, for $6,700,000 and recognized an additional
     gain on the sale of $813,000 representing the increase in the fair value
     between the date the shares were received and the date the shares were
     sold. The value of the shares held in escrow at December 31, 1999 was
     $2,286,000 and was classified as short-term investments. During TelCom's
     year ended December 31, 2000, it sold its remaining shares of Cypress
     Semiconductor and recognized a gain of $3,091,000 million representing the
     increase in the fair value between the date the shares were received and
     the date they were sold. $1,427,000 of the $3,091,000 gain occurred during
     the Company's fiscal year ending March 31, 2001.

4.   INVESTMENT IN SAI

     On October 7, 1999, TelCom entered into a Common Stock Agreement and a
     Stockholder Purchase Agreement with Silicon Aquarius Incorporated (SAI). In
     accordance with the Common Stock Agreement, TelCom purchased 1.3 million
     shares of common stock of SAI, representing an 18.67% ownership interest in
     SAI, for $3.0 million. TelCom accounted for this investment on the equity
     method with a 90-day lag in recording its share of the operating results
     for SAI. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, TelCom recorded its
     equity in net loss of SAI of $626,000 and wrote off its remaining
     investment in SAI of $1,564,000 because this investment was deemed to have
     no value.

5.   INVESTMENT IN CSMC

     During the quarter ended March 31, 2000, TelCom invested $1,600,000 for an
     approximately 4% equity interest in Central Semiconductor Holdings Company
     Limited, which owns 100% of Central Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
     Limited (CSMC). CSMC is one of the foundries used by the Company to
     manufacture TelCom's products. The Company accounts for this investment on
     the cost method. During the year ended March 31, 2001, the Company
     purchased fabricated wafers from CSMC for a total amount of $5,609,000. At
     March 31, 2001, the Company had $608,000 in accounts payable to CSMC.

6.   CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is subject to lawsuits and other claims arising in the ordinary
     course of its business. In the Company's opinion, based on consultation
     with legal counsel, as of March 31, 2001, the effect of such matters will
     not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.

     In the ordinary course of its business, the Company is involved in a
     limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could
     incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome
     of these actions is not presently determinable, the Company believes that
     the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm its business.
     Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and the
     Company is, and from time to time has been, subject to such litigation.

                                      F-11

7.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     Accounts receivable consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                     March 31,
                                                 2001         2000
                                               -------      -------

     Trade accounts receivable                 $79,966      $86,454
     Other                                         768          703
                                               -------      -------
                                                80,734       87,157

     Less allowance for doubtful accounts        4,191        2,932
                                               -------      -------

                                               $76,543      $84,225
                                               =======      =======

8.   INVENTORIES

     The components of inventories are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                     March 31,
                                                2001          2000
                                              --------      -------

     Raw materials                            $ 10,132      $ 7,741
     Work in process                            67,065       45,024
     Finished goods                             43,518       26,132
                                              --------      -------
                                               120,715       78,897

     Less inventory reserves                    25,016       10,573
                                              --------      -------

                                              $ 95,699      $68,324
                                              ========      =======

9.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (amounts in
     thousands):

                                                   March 31,
                                              2001           2000
                                           ----------      --------

     Land                                  $   23,685      $ 11,545
     Building and building improvements       231,981        90,192
     Machinery and equipment                  688,096       492,584
     Projects in process                      160,488       101,448
                                           ----------      --------
                                            1,104,250       695,769

     Less accumulated depreciation
     and amortization                         324,234       249,948
                                           ----------      --------

                                           $  780,016      $445,821
                                           ==========      ========

     Depreciation and amortization expense attributed to property, plant and
     equipment was $101,990,000, $69,696,000 and $70,098,000 for the years
     ending March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

10.  LONG-TERM DEBT

     The Company has an unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of
     banks totaling $100,000,000, bearing interest at LIBOR plus 0.625%. The
     Company can elect to increase the facility to $150,000,000, subject to
     certain conditions set forth in the credit agreement. This facility has a
     termination date of May 31, 2003. The Company had no borrowings against

                                      F-12

     this line of credit as of March 31, 2001. The credit facility requires the
     Company to achieve certain financial ratios and achieve operating results
     to maintain the credit facility. The Company's ability to fully utilize
     this credit facility is dependent on it being in compliance with such
     covenants and ratios. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as
     of March 31, 2001.

     At March 31, 2000, and through May 31, 2000, the Company had an unsecured
     line of credit with a syndicate of U.S. Banks for up to $90,000,000,
     bearing interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%. The Company had utilized $9,000,000
     of this line of credit as of March 31, 2000. The agreement between the
     Company and the syndicate of banks required the Company to achieve certain
     financial ratios and operating results. The Company was in compliance with
     such covenants as of March 31, 2000 and May 31, 2000.

     The Company has an additional unsecured line of credit with various Taiwan
     financial institutions for up to $34,600,000 (U.S. Dollar equivalent).
     These borrowings are predominantly denominated in U.S. Dollars, bearing
     interest at the Singapore Interbank Offering Rate (SIBOR) 4.662% at March
     31, 2001 plus 0.584% (average) and expiring on various dates through March
     2002. There were no borrowings against this line of credit as of March 31,
     2001, but an allocation of $856,000 of the available line was made,
     relating to import guarantees associated with the Company's business in
     Thailand.

11.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company maintains a contributory profit-sharing plan for a majority of
     its domestic employees meeting certain service requirements. The plan
     qualifies under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
     amended, and allows employees to contribute up to 15% of their
     compensation, subject to maximum annual limitations prescribed by the
     Internal Revenue Service. The Company shall make a matching contribution of
     up to 25% of the first 4% of the participant's eligible compensation and
     may award up to an additional 25% under the discretionary match. All
     matches are provided on a quarterly basis and require the participant to be
     an active employee at the end of each quarter. For the fiscal years ended
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company contributions to the plan
     totaled $1,111,000, $921,000 and $764,000, respectively.

     The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan") allows
     eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of Common Stock at
     semi-annual intervals through periodic payroll deductions. The purchase
     price per share, in general, will be 85% of the lower of the fair market
     value of the Common Stock on the participant's entry date into the offering
     period or 85% of the fair market value on the semi-annual purchase date. As
     of March 31, 2001, 514,531 shares were available for issuance under the
     Purchase Plan. Since the inception of the Purchase Plan, 8,638,500 shares
     of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the Purchase Plan. On
     May 1, 2001, the Board of Directors approved the termination of the
     Purchase Plan immediately following the close of the February 2002 purchase
     period. Also on May 1, 2001, the Board of Directors adopted the 2001
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2001 Purchase Plan") to be effective on
     the first business day of March 2002, subject to stockholder approval at
     the Company's 2001 annual stockholders' meeting. The Board has initially
     reserved 1,200,000 shares for issuance under the 2001 Purchase Plan. In
     addition, any shares remaining in the existing Purchase Plan following its
     termination will be rolled over into the 2001 Purchase Plan and added to
     the initial 1,200,000 authorized shares. The 2001 Purchase Plan will allow
     eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of Common Stock at
     semi-annual intervals through periodic payroll deductions. The purchase
     price in general will be 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the
     Common Stock on the first day of any semi-annual offering period or 85% of
     the fair market value on the semi-annual purchase date. During fiscal 1995,
     a purchase plan was adopted for employees in non-U.S. locations. Such plan
     allows for the purchase price per share to be 100% of the lower of the fair
     market value of the Common Stock on the beginning or end of the semi-annual
     purchase plan period.

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted a non-qualified deferred
     compensation arrangement. This plan is unfunded and is maintained primarily
     for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of
     management as defined in ERISA Sections 201, 301 and 401. There are no
     Company matching contributions with respect to this plan.

                                      F-13

     Employees in certain foreign locations are covered by statutory pension
     plans, none of which plans are defined benefit plans. Contributions are
     accrued based on an actuarially determined percentage of compensation and
     are funded in amounts sufficient to meet statutory requirements. Pension
     expense amounted to $175,000, $295,000 and $1,037,000 for the years ended
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     The Company has a management incentive compensation plan which provides for
     bonus payments, based on a percentage of base salary, from an incentive
     pool created from operating profits of the Company, at the discretion of
     the Board of Directors. During the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and
     1999, $6,706,000, $5,137,000 and $2,220,000, respectively, was charged
     against operations for this plan.

     The Company also has a plan that provides a cash bonus based on the
     operating profits of the Company for all employees, at the discretion of
     the Board of Directors. During the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and
     1999, $2,899,000, $2,556,000 and $607,000, respectively, was charged
     against operations for this plan.

     TelCom had various bonus plans in place for their employees for the periods
     covered by this report. During the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and
     1999, $1,674,000, $1,824,000 and $452,000, respectively, were charged
     against operations for these plans. The Company has terminated TelCom's
     bonus plans so that all of its employees will be covered by the Company's
     existing plans.

12.  STOCK OPTION PLANS

     Under the Company's stock option plans (the "Plans"), key employees,
     non-employee directors and consultants may be granted non-statutory stock
     options to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price not less than 100% of
     the fair value of the option shares on the grant date. Options granted
     under the Plans vest over the period determined by the Board of Directors
     at the date of grant, at periods ranging from one year to four years. The
     maximum term of options granted under the Plans is 10 years. The Company
     did not make any stock option grants to consultants during the years ended
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. At March 31, 2001, there were 19,209,107
     shares available for grant under the Plans. The per share weighted average
     fair value of stock options granted under the Plans for the years ended
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $22.73, $10.77 and $6.10, respectively,
     based on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
     with the following weighted average assumptions:

                                              Years Ended March 31,
                                         2001          2000          1999
                                       -------       -------       -------

     Expected life (years)              4.35          4.29          3.96
     Risk-free interest rate            5.50%         6.00%         5.10%
     Volatility                           72%           67%           68%
     Dividend yield                        0%            0%            0%

     Under the Plans, 60,434,824 shares of Common Stock had been reserved for
     issuance since the inception of the Plans.

                                      F-14

     The stock option activity is as follows:

                                                             Options Outstanding
                                                               Weighted Average
                                                    Shares      Exercise Price
                                                    ------      --------------

     Outstanding at March 31, 1998                15,206,401        $ 6.70

     Granted                                       4,265,081          9.93
     Exercised                                    (2,278,890)         4.61
     Canceled                                     (1,560,615)        11.46
                                                                    ------

     Outstanding at March 31, 1999                15,631,977        $ 7.44

     Granted                                       4,219,549         18.32
     Exercised                                    (2,819,250)         6.14
     Canceled                                       (654,694)        11.70
                                                                    ------

     Outstanding at March 31, 2000                16,377,582        $10.40

     Granted                                       3,858,706         36.03
     Exercised                                    (1,805,321)         6.93
     Canceled                                     (1,287,120)       $22.84
     TelCom adjustment                              (239,825)           --
                                                 -----------        ------
     Outstanding at March 31, 2001                16,904,022        $15.67
                                                 ===========        ======

     The TelCom adjustment of 239,825 shares relates to TelCom's net stock
     option activity for the three months ended March 31, 2000, which has been
     included to conform to the Company's March 31 fiscal year end.

     The following table summarizes information about the stock options
     outstanding at March 31, 2001:



     At March 31, 2001 and 2000, the number of options exercisable was 7,384,492
     and 5,779,361, respectively, and the weighted-average exercise price of
     those options was $8.69 and $5.98, respectively.

                                      F-15

     The Company received a tax benefit of $15,936,000, $15,511,000 and
     $4,915,000 for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively,
     from the exercise of non-qualified stock options and the disposition of
     stock acquired with incentive stock options or through the Purchase Plan.
     For financial reporting purposes, the tax effect of this deduction is
     accounted for as a credit to additional paid-in capital rather than as a
     reduction of income tax expense.

     The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its various stock
     plans and, accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the
     Plans or the Purchase Plan in the financial statements. Had the Company
     determined compensation cost in accordance with SFAS No. 123, the Company's
     net income per share would have been reduced to the pro forma unaudited
     amounts indicated below:

                                                    Years Ended March 31,
                                                2001         2000        1999
                                                ----         ----        ----

     Net income             As reported      $ 142,836    $ 115,173    $ 46,541
                            Pro forma          116,577       94,437      37,644

     Basic net income       As reported      $    1.11    $    0.94    $   0.38
     Per share              Pro forma             0.90         0.77        0.30

     Diluted net income     As reported      $    1.04    $    0.88    $   0.36
     Per share              Pro forma             0.85         0.72        0.29

     Pro forma net income reflects only options granted during the fiscal years
     ended March 31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996. Therefore, the full
     impact of calculating compensation cost for stock options under SFAS No.
     123 is not reflected in pro forma net income amounts presented above
     because compensation cost is reflected over the options' vesting periods
     and compensation cost for options granted prior to April 1, 1995 is not
     considered.

13.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases office space, transportation and other equipment under
     capital and operating leases, which expire at various dates through August
     31, 2007. The future minimum lease commitments under these leases are
     payable as follows (amounts in thousands):

                        Year Ending               Operating
                         March 31,                 Leases
                         ---------                 ------

                           2002                    $ 2,376
                           2003                      1,849
                           2004                      1,141
                           2005                        762
                           2006                        641
                        Thereafter                     566
                                                   -------
                  Total minimum payments           $ 7,335
                                                   =======

     Rental expense under operating leases totaled $4,472,000, $4,369,000 and
     $3,626,000 for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

                                      F-16

14.  INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes is as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                Years Ended March 31,
                                          2001           2000         1999
                                        --------       -------      -------

     Current expense:
          Federal                       $ 34,127       $19,618      $ 9,398
          State                            3,792         2,342        1,132
          Foreign                         23,446         8,185        8,038
                                        --------       -------      -------

                                          61,365        30,145       18,568
                                        --------       -------      -------

     Deferred expense (benefit):
          Federal                         (6,836)        6,996          715
          State                             (760)          777           79
          Foreign                           (406)        1,523          119
                                        --------       -------      -------

                                          (8,002)        9,296          913
                                        --------       -------      -------

                                        $ 53,363       $39,441      $19,481
                                        ========       =======      =======

     The tax benefit associated with the exercise of employee stock options
     reduced taxes currently payable by $15,936,000, $15,511,000 and $4,915,000
     for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These
     amounts were credited to additional paid-in capital in each of the three
     fiscal years.

     The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying
     the statutory federal tax rate to income before income taxes. The sources
     and tax effects of the differences are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                  Years Ended March 31,
                                             2001          2000          1999
                                           --------      --------      --------

     Computed expected provision           $ 68,670      $ 54,115      $ 23,108

     State income taxes, net
     of federal benefits                     12,406         2,032         1,418

     Foreign sales corporation benefit       (3,230)       (2,968)       (2,824)

     Foreign income taxed at
     lower than the federal rate            (23,583)      (10,454)       (4,152)

     Change in valuation allowance             (900)       (3,141)        1,969

     Other                                       --          (143)          (38)
                                           --------      --------      --------

                                           $ 53,363      $ 39,441      $ 19,481
                                           ========      ========      ========

     Pretax income from foreign operations was $133,208,000, $59,234,000 and
     $30,622,000 for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively. Unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be
     permanently invested outside the United States and on which no deferred
     taxes have been provided, amounted to approximately $349,841,000 at March
     31, 2001.

     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
     portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as
     follows (amounts in thousands):

                                      F-17

                                                                March 31,
                                                            2001         2000
                                                          --------     --------
     Deferred tax assets:

       Intercompany profit in inventory                   $ 12,749     $  8,520
       Deferred income on shipments to distributors         22,061       19,835
       Inventory reserves                                    6,688          412
       Accrued expenses and other                            6,010        7,770
                                                          --------     --------
       Gross deferred tax assets                            47,508       36,537
                                                          --------     --------

     Deferred tax liabilities:

       Property, plant and equipment, principally due
         to differences in depreciation                    (22,966)     (18,697)
       Other                                                    --         (400)
                                                          --------     --------
       Gross deferred tax liability                        (22,966)     (19,097)
                                                          --------     --------
       Deferred tax asset valuation allowance                   --         (900)
                                                          --------     --------
       Net deferred tax asset                             $ 24,542     $ 16,540
                                                          ========     ========

     Management believes that the results of future operations will generate
     sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets.

     The Company is currently benefiting from a tax holiday from its Thailand
     manufacturing operations. The aggregate dollar benefits derived from the
     tax holiday approximated $40,812,000, $12,378,000 and $5,121,000 for the
     years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The benefit the
     tax holiday had on net income per share approximated $0.30, $0.09 and $0.04
     for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
     Company's tax holiday status in Thailand will partially expire in September
     2003.

15.  ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Accrued liabilities consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                   March 31,
                                                2001        2000
                                              -------     -------

     Accrued salaries and wages               $ 5,198     $ 9,083
     Income taxes                              42,560       9,864
     Other accrued expenses                    25,107      20,367
                                              -------     -------

                                              $72,865     $39,314
                                              =======     =======

16.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN. Effective October 11, 1999, the Company adopted an
     Amended and Restated Preferred Shares Rights Agreement (the "Amended Rights
     Agreement"). The Amended Rights Agreement amends and restates the Preferred
     Share Rights Agreement adopted by the Company as of February 13, 1995 (the
     "Prior Rights Agreement"). Under the Prior Rights Agreement, on February
     13, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of one right
     (a "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of the Company's
     Series A Participating Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") for each
     outstanding share of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company. The
     dividend was payable on February 24, 1995 to stockholders of record as of
     the close of business on that date.

     The Amended Rights Agreement supersedes the Prior Rights Agreement as
     originally executed. Under the Amended Rights Agreement, each Right enables
     the holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of
     Series A Preferred at a purchase price of one hundred and eleven dollars
     and eleven cents ($111.11) (the "Purchase Price"), subject to adjustment.
     The rights become exercisable and transferable upon the occurrence of
     certain events.

                                      F-18

     STOCK REPURCHASE ACTIVITY. In connection with a stock repurchase program,
     during the years ended March 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company purchased a
     total of 436,000 and 7,626,875 shares, respectively, of the Company's
     Common Stock in open market activities at a total cost of $4,772,000 and
     $78,249,000, respectively. During the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and
     1999, the Company received 184,593, 2,748,218 and 518,794 shares,
     respectively, in conjunction with the net share settled forward contract.
     During the years ended March 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company also received
     $17,069,000 and $10,243,000, respectively, in conjunction with the net
     share settled forward contact, which amounts were credited to additional
     paid-in capital. Also, in connection with a stock repurchase program,
     during fiscal 1999 the Company sold put options for 1,350,000 shares of
     Common Stock at pricing per share which ranged from $9.91 to $12.22. During
     fiscal 1999, the Company purchased put options for 112,500 shares. The net
     proceeds from the sale and repurchase of these options, in the amount of
     $2,113,000 for fiscal 1999 has been credited to additional paid-in capital.
     During the year ended March 31, 1999, put options for 562,500 shares were
     purchased at the settlement dates at a total cost of $9,188,000. As of
     March 31, 2000 and 2001, respectively, the Company had no outstanding put
     options. As of March 31, 2001, the net share settled forward contract was
     the only open derivative contract.

     During the year ended March 31, 1999, the Company completed two
     transactions in connection with the stock repurchase program. In April
     1998, the Company completed a costless collar transaction involving call
     options for 1,125,000 shares of Common Stock priced at $11.53 and put
     options for 1,496,250 shares of Common Stock priced at $11.19. The
     expiration date of the transaction was April 28, 1999, resulting in the
     Company receiving $4,600,000 which was credited to additional paid-in
     capital. Also in connection with the stock repurchase program, the Company
     completed a net share settled forward contract for 4,500,000 shares at an
     average price of $12.99. The expiration date of this transaction is May
     2001 with quarterly interim settlement dates. The Company intends to extend
     this transaction for a period of one year to May 2002.

17.  GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company operates in one industry segment and engages primarily in the
     design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products.
     The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
     manufacturers (OEMs) in a broad range of market segments, performs on-going
     credit evaluations of its customers and generally requires no collateral.
     The Company's operations outside the United States consist of a
     comprehensive product assembly and final test facilities in Thailand and
     sales offices in certain foreign countries. Domestic operations are
     responsible for the design, development and wafer fabrication of all
     products, as well as the coordination of production planning and shipping
     to meet worldwide customer commitments. The Thailand test facility is
     reimbursed in relation to value added with respect to assembly and test
     operations and other functions performed, and certain foreign sales offices
     receive a commission on export sales within their territory. Accordingly,
     for financial statement purposes, it is not meaningful to segregate sales
     or operating profits for the test and foreign sales office operations.
     Identifiable assets by geographic area are as follows (amounts in
     thousands):

                                               March 31,
                                          2001          2000
                                       ----------     --------

     United States                     $  790,344     $532,741
     Thailand                             222,147      137,585
     Taiwan                                63,510      136,194
     Hong Kong                             15,677       18,991
     Other                                 69,671       35,841
                                       ----------     --------

          Total Assets                 $1,161,349     $861,352
                                       ==========     ========

                                      F-19

     Sales to unaffiliated customers located outside the United States,
     primarily in Asia and Europe, aggregated approximately 68%, 68% and 69% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively. Sales to customers in Europe represented 31%, 31% and 30% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively. Sales to customers in Asia represented 36%, 34% and 36% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively.

18.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value because
     their maturity is less than three months. The carrying amount of accounts
     receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximates fair
     value due to the short-term maturity of the amounts. The fair value of
     capital lease obligations, long-term debt and lines of credit approximate
     their carrying value as they are estimated by discounting the future cash
     flows at rates currently offered to the Company for similar debt
     instruments.

     The Company is party to financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk
     in the normal course of business to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in
     foreign exchange rates. These financial instruments include standby letters
     of credit and foreign currency forward contracts. When engaging in forward
     contracts, risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to
     meet the terms of their contracts and from movements in securities values,
     interest rates and foreign exchange rates. At March 31, 2001 and 2000, the
     Company held contracts totaling $4,235,000 and $5,840,000 respectively,
     which were entered into and hedged the Company's foreign currency risk. The
     value of the contracts is based on quoted market prices. The contracts
     matured May 2001 and June 2000, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses
     as of the balance sheet dates and realized gains and losses for the years
     ending March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 were not material.

19.  NET INCOME PER SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
     income per share (in thousands except per share amounts):

                                                     Years Ended March 31,
                                                2001         2000         1999
                                              --------     --------     --------

     Net income                               $142,836     $115,173     $ 46,541
                                              ========     ========     ========

     Weighted average common
       shares outstanding                      129,088      122,314      123,500

     Dilutive effect of stock options            7,705        8,025        5,382
                                              --------     --------     --------

     Weighted average common and common
       equivalent shares outstanding           136,793      130,339      128,882
                                              ========     ========     ========

     Basic net income per share               $   1.11     $    .94     $   0.38
                                              ========     ========     ========
     Diluted net income per share             $   1.04     $    .88     $   0.36
                                              ========     ========     ========

     Weighted average shares exclude the effect of antidilutive options. As of
     March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the weighted average number of options that
     were antidilutive were 199,000, 11,000 and 61,000, respectively.

     Put options for 562,500 shares were purchased during the year ended March
     31, 1999. There were no put options purchased in the years ended March 31,
     2001 and 2000. During the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the
     Company received 184,593, 2,748,218 and 518,794 shares, respectively, in
     conjunction with the net share settled forward contract. During the years
     ended March 31, 2001 and 1999, the Company delivered 663,674 and 1,185,284
     shares, respectively, in conjunction with the net share settled forward
     contract. No shares were delivered in conjunction with the net share
     settled forward contract during the year ended March 31, 2000. During the
     years ended March 31, 2000 and 1999 the Company purchased a total of
     436,000 and 7,626,875 shares, respectively, of the Company's Common Stock
     in open market activities. During the year ended March 31, 2001 there were
     no purchases of Common Stock in open market activities.

                                      F-20

     Both basic and diluted net income per share incorporate the affects of the
     Company's stock repurchase program, including purchase of put options,
     shares received and delivered in connection with the net share settled
     forward contract and stock purchased in open market transactions as
     outlined above.

20.  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

     The following table presents the Company's selected unaudited quarterly
     operating results for eight quarters ended March 31, 2001. The Company
     believes that all necessary adjustments have been made to present fairly
     the related quarterly results (in thousands except per share amounts):



21.  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Cash paid for income taxes amounted to $24,763,000, $10,378,000 and
     $29,682,000 during the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively. Cash paid for interest amounted to $771,000, $1,196,000 and
     $3,147,000 during the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively. Included in the special charge for the year ended March 31,
     1999 was a non-cash amount of $7,220,000, which pertained to the write-down
     of fixed assets due to the restructuring of the Company's manufacturing
     capacity. Included in the special charge for the year ended March 31, 2001
     was a non-cash amount of $3,955,000, which pertained to the write-down of
     fixed assets due to the restructuring of the Company's manufacturing
     facilities.

     A summary of additions and deductions related to the allowance for doubtful
     accounts for the years ended March 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 follows:



                                      F-21

