
10-K
e-10068.txt
ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YR ENDED 03/31/2003

================================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2003 OR

[ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

     For the transition period from __________ to __________

                         Commission File Number: 0-21184

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

        DELAWARE                                          86-0629024
(State of Incorporation)                       (IRS Employer Identification No.)

                   2355 W. CHANDLER BLVD., CHANDLER, AZ 85224
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)

                                 (480) 792-7200
              (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                     COMMON STOCK, $.001 PAR VALUE PER SHARE
                         PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

The Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days:
YES [X] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. [X]

The Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2):
YES [X] NO [ ]

The approximate aggregate market value of the voting stock of the Registrant
beneficially owned by stockholders, other than directors, officers and
affiliates of the Registrant, at September 30, 2002 was $4,083,610,438.

Number of shares of Common Stock, $.001 par value, outstanding as of April 25,
2003: 203,802,340.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

                     Document                                  Part of Form 10-K
                     --------                                  -----------------
Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders           III

================================================================================

                                     PART I

     THIS FORM 10-K CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY AND FUTURE
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE," "PLAN,"
"EXPECT," "FUTURE," "INTEND" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE RESULTS
ANTICIPATED IN THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS
INCLUDING THOSE SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY
AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING BELOW AT PAGE 11, "ITEM 7 -
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS," BEGINNING BELOW AT PAGE 23, AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS FORM 10-K.
ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF
ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON
THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE
INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our
customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product
portfolio comprises the PICmicro(R) field-programmable RISC microcontrollers,
which serve 8 and 16-bit embedded control applications, and a broad spectrum of
high-performance linear and mixed-signal, power management and thermal
management devices. We also offer complementary microperipheral products
including interface devices, Serial EEPROMS, and our application-specific
standard products (ASSPs). This synergistic product portfolio targets thousands
of applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the
automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets.
Our quality systems are ISO 9001 (1994 version) and QS9000 (1998 version)
certified.

     Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In
this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology
Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355
West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number
is (480) 792-7200.

     Our Internet address is WWW.MICROCHIP.COM. We post the following filings on
our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission:

     o    Our annual report on Form 10-K
     o    Our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
     o    Our current reports on Form 8-K, and
     o    Any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant
          to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

     All SEC filings on our Web site are available free of charge. The
information on our Web site is NOT incorporated into this Form 10-K.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products
to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or
reducing cost. To address these requirements, many manufacturers use integrated
circuit-based embedded control systems that provide an integrated solution for
application-specific control products. Embedded control systems enable our
customers to:

     o    differentiate their products
     o    replace less efficient electromechanical control devices
     o    add product functionality
     o    decrease time to market for their products, and
     o    significantly reduce product cost


     In addition, embedded control systems facilitate the emergence of complete
new classes of products. Embedded control systems have been incorporated into
thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of markets worldwide,
including:

     o    automotive comfort, safety and     o    cordless and cellular
          entertainment applications              telephone accessories
     o    remote control devices             o    motor controls
     o    handheld tools                     o    security systems
     o    home appliances                    o    educational and entertainment
     o    portable computers                      devices, and
                                             o    personal digital assistant
                                                  (PDA) accessories.

     Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the
principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a
self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit,
non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various
input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a
complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and
may include specialized peripheral device controllers and internal or external
non-volatile memory components, such as EEPROMs, to store additional program
software.

     The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for
microcontrollers one of the largest segments of the semiconductor market.
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures.
Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack
the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and
are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While
traditional 16 and 32-bit architectures provide very high performance, they are
generally more expensive for most high-volume embedded control applications,
typically costing two to four times the cost of an 8-bit microcontroller. As a
result, manufacturers of competitive, high-volume products have increasingly
found 8-bit microcontrollers to be the most cost-effective embedded control
solution.

     Most microcontrollers available today are ROM-based and must be programmed
by the semiconductor supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 10 to 12-week
lead times, based on current market conditions, for delivery of such
microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead
times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory
shutdowns when changes in the firmware are required. To address these issues,
some suppliers offer programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the
customer in the customer's manufacturing line, thus minimizing lead-time and
inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur. While these
microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM-based
microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the last several
years to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now available for
little to no premium over ROM-based microcontrollers, thus providing significant
value to microcontroller customers. As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers
are the fastest growing segment of the 8-bit microcontroller market.

OUR PRODUCTS

     Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, including:

     o    microcontrollers
     o    high-performance linear and mixed-signal devices
     o    power management and thermal management devices
     o    smart battery management devices, and
     o    complementary microperipheral products including interface devices,
          Serial EEPROMs, low power radio frequency, or RF, devices, and our
          patented KEELOQ(R)security devices.

     We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer
the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and
ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product
integration by our customers.


     MICROCONTROLLERS

     We offer a broad family of microcontroller products featuring a unique,
proprietary architecture marketed under the PIC(R) brand name. We believe that
our PIC(R) product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide
microcontroller market. We have shipped approximately 2.5 billion PIC(R)
microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our
PIC(R) products are designed for applications requiring field-programmability,
high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. They feature a variety of
memory technology configurations, low voltage and power, small footprint and
ease of use. Our performance results from an exclusive product architecture
which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard
dual-bus architecture; a reduced instruction set, referred to as RISC; and
variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages
over alternative single-bus, CISC architectures. With over 180 microcontrollers
in our product portfolio, we target the entire performance range of 8-bit
microcontrollers. Additionally, our scalable product architecture allows us to
successfully target both the entry-level of the 16-bit microcontroller market,
as well as the higher end of the 4-bit microcontroller marketplace,
significantly enlarging our addressable market.

     We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology
to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the
development and production of our PIC(R) family of microcontroller products. Our
extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced, low cost user
programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash,
EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in
reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings.

     DIGITAL SIGNAL CONTROLLERS

     We recently began sampling our Digital Signal Controller product line. Our
family of dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers is a series of high performance 16-bit
microcontrollers, combining the many features and capabilities of our PIC(R)
family of 8-bit microcontrollers with the high performance capabilities of a
digital signal processor (DSP).

     Our dsPIC(TM) product family will offer a broad development tool suite of
hardware and software to ease the effort of the designer, high performance
Harvard dual-bus architecture and a proliferation of integrated peripherals to
monitor and control all aspects of the embedded control product. With its
field-re-programmability, program memory, low power, small footprint and ease of
use, we believe that our dsPIC(TM) microcontrollers will significantly enlarge
our addressable market.

     DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS

     We offer a comprehensive set of low cost and easy-to-learn application
development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily
program a PIC(R) microcontroller for specific applications and are a key factor
for obtaining design wins.

     Our family of development tools operates in the standard Windows(R)
environment on standard PC hardware. Entry-level systems, which include an
assembler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware are priced at less
than $200. Fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation hardware
are priced between $2,000 and $3,500. Customers moving from entry-level designs
to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in
learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC(R) devices since all systems
share the same integrated development environment.

     Many independent companies also develop and market application development
tools and systems that support our standard microcontroller product
architecture. Currently, there are more than 150 third-party tool suppliers
worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture.

     We believe that familiarity with and adoption of our, and third-party,
development systems by an increasing number of product designers will be an
important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These
development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of
application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we
have shipped more than 260,000 development systems.


     ASSPs

     Our application-specific standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are
specialized products designed to perform specific end-user applications,
compared to our other products that are more general purpose in nature. Our ASSP
device families currently include, among others, the KEELOQ(R) family of secure
data transmission products and smart battery management products.

     MIXED-SIGNAL ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS

     Our mixed-signal analog and interface products now consist of several
families with over 300 power management, linear, mixed-signal, thermal
management and interface products. At the end of fiscal 2003, our mixed-signal
analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 7,000 end
customers.

     We continue marketing and selling our analog and interface products into
our existing microcontroller customer base, which we refer to as our analog
"attach" strategy, as well as to new customers. In addition to our "attach"
strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional
PIC(R) microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and
all of our products, based on a "functions" approach, targeted to solve
different problems in development of our customers' products.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Our memory products consist primarily of serial electrically erasable
programmable read only memory, referred to as EEPROMs. We sell these devices
primarily into the embedded control market, and we are one of the largest
suppliers of such devices worldwide. EEPROM products are used for non-volatile
program and data storage in systems where such data must be either modified
frequently or retained for long periods. Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin
requirement, permitting production of very small devices. As a result, Serial
EEPROMs are widely used to supply non-volatile memory in space-sensitive
applications such as:

     o    home electronics
     o    portable computers
     o    cellular and cordless telephones
     o    pagers, and
     o    remote control devices.

     We address customer requirements by offering products with extremely small
package sizes and very low operating voltages for both read and write functions.
High performance circuitry and microcode are also available to reduce power
consumption when a device is not in use, while permitting immediate operating
capability when required. Our memory products also feature long data retention
and high erase/write endurance.

MANUFACTURING

     Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and
test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of
our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing
control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded
control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and the majority of
our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary statistical
process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high
production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to
shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture
the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin.

     Our manufacturing facilities are located in:

     o    Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1)
     o    Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)
     o    Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3) (non-operational-held for sale)
     o    Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4), and
     o    Bangkok, Thailand (assembly and test).


     WAFER FABRICATION

     As we announced on April 7, 2003, we are closing Fab 1 and integrating
certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2. Fab 1, which currently
produces 6-inch wafers using manufacturing processes between 0.5 and 5.0
microns, is our oldest manufacturing facility. Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch
wafers and supports manufacturing processes between 0.35 and 5.0 microns.

     We expect that the integration of Fab 1 processes and products into Fab 2
will be completed by June 30, 2003, at which time Fab 1 will cease to operate as
a wafer fabrication facility. We also expect that we will incur accelerated
depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 in the
first quarter of fiscal 2004. See "ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - RECENT DEVELOPMENT," below at
page 24, for a discussion of these anticipated charges.

     We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient
capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand.

     During fiscal 2003, Fabs 1 and 2 operated at approximately 85% of their
aggregate capacity, compared to approximately 70% of their aggregate capacity
during fiscal 2002. Operating at lower percentages of capacity has a negative
impact on operating results due to the relatively high fixed costs inherent in
our wafer fabrication manufacturing. As of March 31, 2003, products manufactured
on 8-inch wafers accounted for approximately 80% of our production.

     Fab 3 is non-operational and is currently classified as an asset
held-for-sale. See "ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - SPECIAL CHARGES - FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT
CHARGE," below at page 33, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3.

     Fab 4 was acquired in August 2002. Product and customer qualifications are
in process and production start-up is currently planned for the third quarter of
fiscal 2004. Fab 4 will produce 8-inch wafers using 0.5 micron manufacturing
processes; however, Fab 4 is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18
microns.

     We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to
reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our successful transition to
more advanced process technologies and larger wafers is important for us to
remain competitive. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if
any such transition is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

     We also contract with third-party wafer foundries to fabricate
approximately 3% of our products, primarily in our analog and smart battery
management product families. We plan to transition certain of these products to
our own wafer fabrication facilities over time. On a strategic basis, we will
continue to use third-party foundries to shorten our product design cycle on
certain key technologies and products.

     ASSEMBLY AND TEST

     We perform product assembly and testing at our facilities located near
Bangkok, Thailand. At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly
requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility. As of March 31,
2003, our Thailand facility was testing substantially all of our wafer
production. During fiscal 2003, we substantially completed an approximately
67,000 square foot expansion of test capacity at our Thailand facility that,
once placed in service, will increase the facility's test capacity by between
50% and 70%. The expansion was not finalized, as the capacity is not currently
required due to conditions within the semiconductor industry. We plan to
complete the expansion when business conditions indicate that the capacity is
required. We also use third-party assembly and test contractors in several Asian
countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements.

     GENERAL MATTERS IMPACTING OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS

     We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our
microcontroller and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both
cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater
functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and
optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a
common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory
products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and
development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our


engineers utilize advanced CAD tools and software to perform circuit design,
simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication
facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test
wafers quickly and efficiently.

     Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing,
consistently high manufacturing yields can have significant positive effects on
gross profit and overall operating results. During fiscal 2003, our focus on
manufacturing productivity allowed us to maintain average wafer fab line yields
in excess of 95%. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a
comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee
training and selective upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment.
Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in
the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture and assembly of
integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic
devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes
are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants
in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the
performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in
the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than
anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are
unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply
shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told
us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. An interruption of any
raw materials or equipment sources could harm our business.

     Our reliance on third parties for a portion of wafer fabrication and
assembly and testing involves some reduction in our level of control over the
portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality,
delivery and cost performance of these third-party contractors, our future
operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at
approximately their current levels.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE TIMING OF THE COMPLETION OF THE
TRANSFER OF PROCESSES AND PRODUCTS FROM FAB 1 TO FAB 2, THE TIMING, COMPOSITION
AND AMOUNT OF ANY CHARGES RELATED TO THE SHUT-DOWN OF FAB 1, THE TIMING OF
PRODUCTION START-UP OF FAB 4, THE SHUT-DOWN OF FAB 1 AND THE INTEGRATION OF
CERTAIN PERSONNEL AND PROCESSES FROM FAB 1 INTO FAB 2 AND THE START-UP OF FAB 4
ALLOWING US TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS, THE COMBINED CAPACITY OF FAB 2
AND FAB 4 PROVIDING SUFFICIENT CAPACITY TO ALLOW US TO RESPOND TO FUTURE
INCREASES IN DEMAND AND THE TRANSITION TO MORE ADVANCED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES TO
REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS
COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: OUR
ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY CARRY OUT OUR PLANNED RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES AND
REALIZE THE SAVINGS AND OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES EXPECTED FROM THESE ACTIONS;
THE RATE OF RECOVERY IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS; THE POTENTIAL FOR UNANTICIPATED RESULTS FROM
OUR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES ON OUR PERFORMANCE INCLUDING CUSTOMER CONCERNS,
PRODUCTIVITY AND THE RETENTION OF KEY EMPLOYEES; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF OUR
CURRENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON-LINE;
TIMELY FACILITIZATION OF FAB 4, INCLUDING THE AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND
OTHER SUPPLIES; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION AT FAB 4;
THE ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IN THE PORTLAND, OREGON
AREA; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES
IN DEMAND FOR OUR ANALOG AND BATTERY MANAGEMENT PRODUCTS; SUPPLY DISRUPTION;
ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT MANUFACTURING COSTS;
FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS; PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY
UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; LABOR
UNREST; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND EXPROPRIATION; AND OTHER GENERAL ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)

     We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products,
including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process
technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in
maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the
design of new 8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit digital signal controllers, memory
and mixed-signal products, ASSPs, new development systems, and software and
application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and
process technology to achieve further cost reductions and performance
improvements in existing products.


     In fiscal 2003, our R&D expenses were $88.0 million, compared to $81.7
million in fiscal 2002 and $78.6 million in fiscal 2001.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     GENERAL

     We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct
sales personnel and distributors.

     Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in
three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain
sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe
and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to
the continued development of the embedded control market. The majority of our
field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales
management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an
engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales
force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary
mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts
and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams.
FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars in major cities around the
world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance
and end-user support.

     DISTRIBUTION

     Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical
support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that
distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse
customer base.

     In fiscal 2003, we derived 60% of our net sales from sales through
distributors and 40% of our net sales from direct sales to original equipment
manufacturers, referred to as OEM, customers. Distributors accounted for 62% of
our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001. One
distributor accounted for 12% of our total net sales for fiscal 2003, 13% of our
total net sales for fiscal 2002 and 14% for fiscal 2001. No other distributor or
end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2003,
2002 or 2001.

     Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and
our distributors may terminate their relationship with us with little or no
advanced notice. The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more
of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and
could result in us receiving product returns from the distributors.

     As is common in the semiconductor industry, we provide price protection to
our distributors. Under our current policy, distributors receive a credit for
the difference, at the time of a price reduction, between the price they were
originally charged for products in inventory and the reduced price that we
subsequently charge distributors. On a case-by-case basis, distributors may also
receive credit for specific transactions that we approve in advance. We also
grant distributors limited rights to return products.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION

     We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales
recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer
returns. Our distributors have broad rights to return products and price
protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells
the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed to distributors
are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred
and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is
sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our revenue recognition
policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors during fiscal 2003.
See "Item 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE," beginning at page 24
below.


     SALES BY GEOGRAPHY

     Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
were as follows (in thousands):

                                        Year Ended March 31,
                     ----------------------------------------------------------
                       2003        %       2002       %         2001       %
                     --------   ------   --------   ------    --------   ------
Americas             $219,504     33.7   $192,924     33.8    $236,295     33.0
Europe                177,727     27.3    179,355     31.4     219,302     30.6
Asia                  254,231     39.0    198,975     34.8     260,133     36.4
                     --------   ------   --------   ------    --------   ------

Total Sales          $651,462    100.0%  $571,254    100.0%   $715,730    100.0%
                     ========   ======   ========   ======    ========   ======

     Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe,
which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive,
communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas
sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America
and South America.

     Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales
in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and
approximately 68% of our net sales in fiscal 2001.

     Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net
sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries
that exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report.

     Our international sales are predominately billed in U.S. Dollars. Although
foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not
experienced any material difficulties as a result of export restrictions to
date.

     Our foreign operations are subject to a number of risks as described under
the heading, "WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH
EXPOSES US TO FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS," on page 16.

BACKLOG

     As of April 25, 2003, our backlog was approximately $106.6 million,
compared to $119.9 million as of April 26, 2002. Our backlog includes all
purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

     We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory
within a short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large
extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by
short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current
backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the
customer's option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for
scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable
measure of sales for any future period.

COMPETITION

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing,
distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies
may also increase their participation in the market for embedded control
applications. Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor industry is generally
increasing over time and such increased capacity or improved product
availability could adversely affect our competitive position.


     We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation
and performance of our embedded control products, including such products':

     o    speed                              o    reliability
     o    functionality                      o    packaging alternatives
     o    density                            o    price, and
     o    power consumption                  o    availability

We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control
market include:

     o    ease of use
     o    functionality of application development systems
     o    dependable delivery and quality, and
     o    technical service and support.

     We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these
factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could
harm our business.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign patents, expiring on
various dates between 2003 and 2021. We also have numerous additional United
States and foreign patent applications pending. While we intend to continue to
seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes, we believe that our
continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative
abilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product
developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing patents and any new
patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide
meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, the laws
of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to
the same extent as the laws of the United States.

     We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and
cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and
manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our
customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive,
communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual
property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all
such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry
practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary licenses or
other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that
licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that
damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could
result in substantial cost to us and divert management effort, may be necessary
to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us
against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain
necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement
claims, could harm our business. See "ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS," beginning
below at page 19.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain
chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have
been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our
activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations. Any changes in
such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly
equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental
regulations. Any failure by us to control adequately the storage, use and
disposal of regulated substances could result in future liabilities.

     Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of
electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any
materially adverse effects on our operations from environmental regulations, our
business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to
control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous
substances under present or future environmental regulations.


EMPLOYEES

     As of April 25, 2003, we had 3,373 employees. Approximately 39% of our
employees work at our Thailand facility. None of our employees in the U.S. or
Thailand are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work
stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good.

     On April 7, 2003, we announced that the closure of Fab 1 and the
integration of certain personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2 would
result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. See "ITEM 1 -
BUSINESS - MANUFACTURING," above at page 5 for a discussion of the closure of
Fab 1 and the integration of certain personnel and processes into Fab 2.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers as of April 25, 2003:

     NAME                     AGE                    POSITION
     ----                     ---                    --------
     Steve Sanghi              47       Chairman of the Board, President
                                          and Chief Executive Officer
     David S. Lambert          51       Vice President, Fab Operations
     Mitchell R. Little        50       Vice President, Worldwide Sales
                                          and Applications
     Ganesh Moorthy            43       Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller
                                          and Automotive Division
     Gordon W. Parnell         53       Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
     Richard J. Simoncic       39       Vice President, Analog and Interface
                                          Products Division

     MR. SANGHI has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991,
and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since
August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer
Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in
Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

     MR. LAMBERT has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November
1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing
Engineering, and from 1988 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab
Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the
University of Cincinnati.

     MR. LITTLE has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications
since July 2000. From April 1998 through July 2000, he served as Vice President,
Americas Sales. From November 1995 to April 1998, he served as Vice President,
Standard Microcontroller and ASSP Division. Mr. Little holds a BSET from United
Electronics Institute.

     MR. MOORTHY has served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and
Automotive Division since November 2001. From August 2000 through November 2001,
he served as Chairman and CEO of Cybercilium, Inc., a business intelligence
solutions provider for mid-market companies. From 1981 through July 2000, Mr.
Moorthy worked at Intel Corporation in various operations and management
capacities, including his last assignment as Director of Operations for Intel's
Home Products Group. Mr. Moorthy holds an MBA in Marketing from National
University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Bombay.

     MR. PARNELL has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
May 2000. He served as Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993
to May 2000. Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting qualification with the
Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh College, Scotland.

     MR. SIMONCIC has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products
Division since September 1999. From January 1996 to September 1999, he served as
Vice President, Memory and Specialty Products Division. Mr. Simoncic holds a
B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of
Technology.

ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful
consideration to the factors described below, in addition to the information
provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with
the SEC.


OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE DUE TO FACTORS THAT COULD REDUCE
OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY.

     Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors
that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our
control. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results
include:

     o    changes in demand for our products in the distribution and OEM
          channels
     o    the level and timing at which previous design wins become actual
          orders and sales
     o    the level of sell-through of our products through distribution
     o    the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter
          (turns orders)
     o    market acceptance of both our products and our customers' products
     o    customer order patterns and seasonality
     o    levels of inventories at our distributors and other customers
     o    inventory mix and timing of customer orders
     o    downward pricing pressures in our product lines
     o    possible disruption in commercial activities or international
          transport or delivery caused by war, armed conflict or terrorist
          activity, or unexpected increases in the price of, or decrease in the
          supply of, oil, any of which could result in changes in logistics and
          security arrangements, and reduced customer purchases relative to
          expectations
     o    impact of events outside of the United States, such as the business
          impact of fluctuating currency rates or unrest or political
          instability
     o    the impact on our business and on customer order patterns due to major
          public health concerns, such as the outbreak of the SARS virus
     o    disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly and testing services
     o    availability of manufacturing capacity, the extent of effective use of
          manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields
     o    the availability and cost of raw materials, equipment and other
          supplies
     o    the costs and outcome of any litigation involving intellectual
          property, customer and other issues
     o    uninsured losses, and
     o    economic, political and other conditions in the worldwide markets
          served by us.

     We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are
not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such
comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our
operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and
investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common
stock.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER IF WE INEFFECTIVELY UTILIZE OUR MANUFACTURING
CAPACITY OR FAIL TO MAINTAIN MANUFACTURING YIELDS.

     The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly
non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we
produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety
of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer
fabrication personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor
industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated
manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to
maintain yields at approximately the current levels.

     Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less
than optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being
charged directly to expense and lower gross margins.

IF WE DO NOT BRING OUR FAB 4 (GRESHAM, OREGON) WAFER FABRICATION FACILITY ON
LINE IN A TIMELY MANNER, OUR ANTICIPATED REVENUES MAY BE REDUCED AND OUR GROSS
MARGINS WILL BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED.


     We acquired Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, in August 2002. We currently
anticipate that Fab 4 will commence production in the third quarter of fiscal
2004. Bringing Fab 4 on-line involves significant risks, including:

     o    successful implementation of our 0.5 micron manufacturing process at
          Fab 4
     o    effective integration of a variety of hardware and software components
     o    potential shortages of materials and skilled labor
     o    unforeseen environmental or engineering problems
     o    approvals and requirements of governmental and regulatory agencies,
          and
     o    unanticipated costs.

     Any one of these risks could delay the equipping and production start-up of
Fab 4, and could involve significant additional costs or reduce our anticipated
revenues.

     As a result of these and other factors, Fab 4 may not commence production
when anticipated or within budget. Also, we may be unable to achieve adequate
manufacturing yields in Fab 4 in a timely manner and our revenues may not
increase in proportion to the anticipated increase in manufacturing capacity
associated with Fab 4 which would harm our operating results.

WE DEPEND ON ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND SHIPPED IN THE SAME QUARTER AND
THEREFORE HAVE LIMITED VISIBILITY OF FUTURE PRODUCT SHIPMENTS.

     Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments
from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter,
which we refer to as turns orders. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly
to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers
placing orders with short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean
that turns orders as a percentage of our business is relatively high in any
particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product shipments. The
percentage of turns orders in any given quarter fluctuates and depends on
overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.

     As such, our percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter
has fluctuated over the last three fiscal years between approximately 20% and
62%. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, increased levels of turns
orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a
sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue
targets, our revenue and operating results will suffer.

INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS WE SERVE MAY LEAD TO PRICING PRESSURES,
REDUCED SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND REDUCED MARKET SHARE.

     The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been
characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with
major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have
greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we with which to pursue
engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.
Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for
embedded control applications. We may be unable to compete successfully in the
future, which could harm our business.

     Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both
within and outside our control, including:

     o    the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing
          and diversity of our products
     o    the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the
          needs of our customers
     o    our success in designing and manufacturing new products including
          those implementing new technologies
     o    the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own
          products
     o    our level of manufacturing capacity utilization and manufacturing
          yields
     o    our ability to hire and retain qualified engineering and management
          personnel
     o    product introductions by our competitors
     o    the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market
     o    our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other
          supplies at acceptable prices
     o    our ability to protect our products and processes by effective
          utilization of intellectual property laws, and general market and
          economic conditions.


     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained
relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and
non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined, over time. We have
experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressure in certain
of our proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We
have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our
proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more
features and higher prices. We have experienced in the past and expect to
continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing
pressures in our Serial EEPROM products.

     We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a
result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would reduce our
operating results.

WE MUST ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO BE SUCCESSFUL, AND COMPETITION
FOR QUALIFIED PERSONNEL IS INTENSE IN OUR MARKET.

     Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities
of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for
qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. We may be
unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and
retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of
one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could
harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our
senior management team.

OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS ON A TIMELY BASIS.

     Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our
ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete
effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer
requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various
factors, including:

     o    proper new product selection
     o    timely completion and introduction of new product designs
     o    development of support tools and collateral literature that make
          complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and
     o    market acceptance of our customers' end products.

     Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to
time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products
may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to
design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which
could reduce our future operating results.

     Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new
design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies
are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D
expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time,
experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process
technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or
delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely
affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially
delayed or inefficiently implemented.

GENERAL CONDITIONS IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY MAY AFFECT OUR COSTS AND INCREASE
THE RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS.

     As conditions in the insurance industry have resulted in decreased
availability of coverage and substantially increased insurance rates over the
last two fiscal years, our liability, property and casualty insurance coverage
levels have decreased and our retained risk exposure from uninsured losses has
increased. We have not made any material change to our operations as a result of
the reduced coverage. Availability and cost of insurance coverage have generally
fluctuated over time as the insurance industry reacts to various market forces
and we will continue to consider changes in our coverage levels based on
conditions in the insurance market.


WE ARE DEPENDENT ON SEVERAL THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTORS TO PERFORM KEY MANUFACTURING
FUNCTIONS FOR US.

     We use several third-party contractors located throughout Asia for a
portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside
wafer foundries for a portion of the wafer fabrication of our analog and smart
battery management products. Through the first half of fiscal 2004, we expect to
continue to rely on one outside foundry to supply a substantial portion of the
wafers that are required to support our smart battery management business, which
represented approximately 2% of our net sales during the quarter ended March 31,
2003. Such foundry is a direct competitor of ours. Although we have reduced our
dependence on third-party contractors over time, the disruption or termination
of any of these sources could harm our business and operating results. Our use
of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the
portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could
suffer if any third-party contractor were to experience financial, operations,
production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they
were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs
at approximately their current levels. In such case, we may not be able to
qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products on a timely manner or
at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us.

WE MAY LOSE SALES IF OUR SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT FAIL TO MEET
OUR NEEDS.

     Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and
equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one
source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers
capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our
standards. In addition, the raw materials and equipment necessary for our
business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply
shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told
us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no
longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts.
An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of
supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.

OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON SELLING THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS.

     Sales through distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Sales through one distributor accounted for
12% of our total net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. Generally,
we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and our distributors
may terminate their relationship with us with little or no advanced notice.

     The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our
distributors could reduce our net sales in a given quarter and could result in
an increase in inventory returns.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY THE WIDE FLUCTUATIONS OF SUPPLY AND
DEMAND IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY.

     The semiconductor industry is characterized by wide fluctuations of supply
and demand. Throughout the last three fiscal years, the industry experienced a
significant economic downturn, characterized by diminished product demand and
production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry
cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly
replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of
market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period
fluctuations in operating results and may, in the future, experience
period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or
economic conditions.

WE ARE EXPOSED TO VARIOUS RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS OR CLAIMS.

     We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings
or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts
and other matters. In addition, as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we
receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification
or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers
by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without
merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we
are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain
necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully
prosecute or defend our position, our business, financial condition or results
of operations could be harmed.


FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD RESULT IN LOST
REVENUE OR MARKET OPPORTUNITIES.

     Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property
rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our
success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and
intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing
processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive,
and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In
addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of
sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial
advantage to us. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings
in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial
and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do
not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third
party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for
us.

WE DO NOT HAVE LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS.

     We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and
we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do
enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the
convenience of the customer. In the event of any early termination of a contract
by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we would be able to rapidly
replace that revenue source which would harm our financial results.

BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     Operations at any of our primary manufacturing facilities, or at any of our
wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for
reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of
terrorism, political instability, public health issues such as SARS,
telecommunications failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural
disasters. If operations at any of our, or our subcontractors', facilities are
interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a
timely basis. If this occurs, we may experience delays in shipments of products
to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on
acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the
cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption
insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may
occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business
interruptions could significantly harm our business.

WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON FOREIGN SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO
FOREIGN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS.

     Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net
sales. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, approximately 71% of our net
sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our
raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product
assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also use
various foreign third-party contractors for a portion of our assembly and
testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements for our analog
and smart battery management products. Substantially all of our finished goods
inventory is maintained in Thailand.

     Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of
substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and
significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks,
including:

     o    political, social and economic instability
     o    trade restrictions and changes in tariffs
     o    import and export license requirements and restrictions
     o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations
     o    employment regulations
     o    disruptions in international transport or delivery
     o    fluctuations in currency exchange rates
     o    difficulties in collecting receivables
     o    economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and
     o    potentially adverse tax consequences.

     If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our
operating results could suffer.


CURRENT GEOPOLITICAL TURMOIL, PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERNS AND THE CONTINUING THREAT
OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ATTACKS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR
BUSINESS.

     International turmoil, such as the recent war in Iraq, the tensions in
North Korea and the SARS outbreak, have contributed to an uncertain political
and economic climate in the United States and in many of the countries in which
we conduct business. These conditions make it difficult for us, and our
customers, to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could
harm our business.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION, WHICH MAY FORCE US TO
INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES.

     We must comply with many different federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process.
Although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable
environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or
a cessation of operations. Any such regulation could require us to acquire
costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with
environmental regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately
restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future
liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future
costs or liabilities.

OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES WE
ACQUIRE COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS.

     We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire,
additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. Achieving the
anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends upon whether the integration of
the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished efficiently and
effectively. In addition, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry
may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such
acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings,
manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and R&D
efforts. These difficulties can become more challenging due to the need to
coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexities of the
technologies being integrated, and the necessities of integrating personnel with
disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures.
The integration of operations following an acquisition also requires the
dedication of management resources, which may distract attention from our
day-to-day business and may disrupt key R&D, marketing or sales efforts. The
inability of our management to successfully integrate any future acquisition
could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with
acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the
anticipated or desired benefits of such transaction.

RECENTLY ENACTED AND PROPOSED CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS AND RELATED REGULATIONS
COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS TO US.

     Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting
public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
rules proposed by the SEC, Nasdaq and the NYSE, could result in increased costs
to us as we respond to their requirements. The new rules could make it more
difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and
officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy
limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or
similar coverage. In this regard, during our most recent annual renewal of our
director and officer liability insurance policy, we experienced substantially
reduced policy limits and terms at a significant cost increase compared to our
prior coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for
us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors,
on committees of our Board of Directors, or as executive officers. We cannot
predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the
timing of such costs that we may incur as we implement these new and proposed
rules.

THE FUTURE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD BE SUBJECT TO WIDE
FLUCTUATIONS IN RESPONSE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS.

     The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the
past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our
common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of
factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:


     o    quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating
          results of other technology companies
     o    actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new
          products by us or our competitors
     o    changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or
          buy/sell recommendations
     o    general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and
     o    worldwide economic and financial conditions.

     In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high
technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating
performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors
may harm the market price of our common stock.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     At March 31, 2003, we owned the facilities described below:

                              APPROX. TOTAL
            LOCATION             SQ. FT.                    USES
            --------             -------                    ----
     Chandler, Arizona (1)       415,000       Executive and Administrative
                                               Offices; Wafer Fabrication (FAB
                                               1); R&D Center; Sales and
                                               Marketing; and Computer and
                                               Service Functions

     Tempe, Arizona              379,000       Wafer Fabrication (FAB 2); R&D
                                               Center; Administrative Offices;
                                               and Warehousing

     Puyallup, Washington (2)    700,000       Wafer Fabrication (FAB 3); R&D
                                               Center; Administrative Offices;
                                               and Warehousing

     Gresham, Oregon (3)         826,500       Wafer Fabrication (FAB 4); R&D
                                               Center; Administrative Offices;
                                               and Warehousing

     Chacherngsao, Thailand (4)  267,000 (5)   Test and Assembly; Sample Center;
                                               Warehousing; and Administrative
                                               Offices

- ----------
(1)  On April 7, 2003, we announced that we would close Fab 1 and integrate
     certain of the personnel and processes from Fab 1 into Fab 2.
(2)  Currently classified as an asset held-for-sale. We have retained a
     third-party broker who is actively marketing Fab 3 on our behalf. See "ITEM
     7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
     OF OPERATIONS - SPECIAL CHARGES -FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE," below at page 33
     for a discussion of the status of Fab 3.
(3)  Acquired in August 2002. Product and customer qualifications are in process
     and production start-up is currently planned for the third quarter of
     fiscal 2004.
(4)  Located in the Alphatechnopolis Industrial Park near Bangkok on land to
     which we expect to acquire title in accordance with our agreement with the
     landowner. Progress towards obtaining full title of the land has been
     delayed due to a complex financial restructuring situation relating to the
     seller of the land. At this time it is not possible to estimate when full
     title transfer will be completed.
(5)  Includes an additional 67,000 square feet of test and incremental assembly
     capacity constructed during fiscal 2003. The new capacity is currently not
     in use but will be put in use as needed.

     At the end of fiscal 2003, we owned long-lived assets in the United States
amounting to $1,138.0 million and $290.2 million in other countries, including
$182.2 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2002, we owned long-lived
assets in the United States amounting to $946.9 million and $328.7 million in
other countries, including $163.9 million in Thailand.

     In addition to the facilities we own, we lease numerous research and
development facilities and sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our
aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately
$295,000.

     We currently believe that our existing facilities will be adequate to meet
our requirements for the next 12 months.

     As conditions in the insurance market have become more difficult over the
last two fiscal years, our property insurance cost have increased, our coverage
levels have decreased and our retained risk exposure from uninsured losses has
increased. We have not made any material change to our operations as a result of
the increased costs and reduced coverage. Availability and cost of coverage have
generally fluctuated over time as the insurance industry reacts to various
market forces and we will consider modifying our coverage levels in the future
based on availability and pricing.


     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATED TO THE ACQUISITION OF TITLE TO THE LAND ON
WHICH THE THAILAND FACILITY IS SITUATED, THE ADEQUACY OF EXISTING FACILITIES FOR
THE NEXT 12 MONTHS AND CHANGES IN INSURANCE COVERAGE ARE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING
FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING OF THE SELLER
OF THE LAND WHERE THE THAILAND FACILITY IS SITUATED; DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS;
FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY
UTILIZATION; COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICES; POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND
EXPROPRIATION; COST AND AVAILABILITY OF INSURANCE; AND OTHER ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS. SEE ALSO THE FACTORS SET FORTH UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL
FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 11 OF THIS
REPORT.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED V. U.S. PHILIPS CORPORATION, ET AL.
(DISTRICT OF ARIZONA, 01-CV-2090-PGR); U.S. PHILIPS CORPORATION V. ATMEL
CORPORATION, ET AL. (SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, 01-CV-9178-LAP). As
previously reported, on October 26, 2001, we filed an action in federal district
court in Arizona for declaratory relief against U.S. Philips Corporation and
Philips Electronics North America Corp. requesting that the Court declare, among
other matters, that we do not infringe Philips' U.S. Patent Nos. 4,689,740 and
5,559,502. We initiated legal action so that a determination could be made
relating to the validity, enforceability and alleged infringement of, and our
license to, the Philips' patents. In response to our filing the declaratory
judgment action in Arizona, Philips filed an action against us in federal
district court in New York, alleging infringement of the `740 patent and seeking
unspecified damages and injunctive relief. The Arizona court has agreed to
retain jurisdiction, and the New York case has been transferred to Arizona. In
response to this development, on December 16, 2002, Philips filed a demand for
arbitration in Amsterdam with the International Chamber of Commerce. We have
submitted to the ICC Court of Arbitration a jurisdictional objection to
proceeding with arbitration pending the outcome of the Arizona litigation, but
the ICC has not yet ruled on this objection. Additionally, Philips and we have
filed and briefed cross motions in the Arizona action with Philips seeing to
compel the arbitration in the ICC while we are seeking to stay the arbitration
and proceed with the Arizona action. The cross motions have not been decided.
Pending a decision, discovery has been stayed by agreement between Philips and
us. We intend to continue to litigate this matter vigorously. We currently
believe that the outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect
on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. However, the
final outcome of this matter is inherently uncertain, and should the outcome be
adverse to us, we may be required to pay damages and other expenses and may be
subjected to injunctive relief. The litigation, even if resolved in our favor,
may also result in diversion of management attention and significant legal fees.

     In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number
of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured
liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome of these actions is
not presently determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these
matters will not harm our business. Litigation relating to the semiconductor
industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject
to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or
outcome of any such litigation in the future.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
"MCHP." Our common stock has been quoted on the Nasdaq National Market since our
initial public offering on March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the
quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock as reported by the
Nasdaq National Market for the last two years, adjusted to reflect a 3-for-2
stock split effected in May 2002:


     FISCAL 2003       HIGH     LOW       FISCAL 2002       HIGH     LOW
     -------------    ------   ------     -------------    ------   ------
     First Quarter    $33.07   $26.52     First Quarter    $22.29   $14.96
     Second Quarter    27.54    15.36     Second Quarter    25.59    16.89
     Third Quarter     29.29    19.44     Third Quarter     27.84    16.81
     Fourth Quarter    27.51    19.90     Fourth Quarter    28.81    22.26

     On May 27, 2003, there were approximately 545 holders of record of our
common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held
in nominee names.

     We declared our first quarterly cash dividend of $0.02 per share on October
25, 2002. Subsequent quarterly dividends were declared on January 21, 2003
($0.02 per share) and on April 24, 2003 ($0.024 per share). Our Board is free to
change its dividend practices at any time and to decrease or increase the
dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our
results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future
prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is
to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions
and our results of operations.

     Please refer to Item 12, "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS," at page 40 below, for the
information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K with respect to securities
authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2003.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the
five-year period ended March 31, 2003 in conjunction with our Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto and "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this
Form 10-K. Our consolidated income statement data for each of the years in the
three-year period ended March 31, 2003, and the balance sheet data as of March
31, 2003 and 2002, are derived from our audited consolidated financial
statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

     We effected a 3-for-2 stock split, in the form of a stock dividend, on May
8, 2002. All references in this Form 10-K to the number of shares and earnings
per share have been adjusted to reflect this stock split.

             THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY




(1)  On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. and
     accounted for the merger as a pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, the
     selected financial data has been restated to include the operations of
     TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end,
     thus the selected financial data presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999 have
     been combined with the operations of TelCom as of and for the years ended
     December 31, 1999 and 1998. We have conformed the TelCom financial data to
     a March 31 year end for the March 31, 2001 fiscal year.

(2)  There were no special charges during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002.
     Detailed discussions of the special charges, net loss in equity investment,
     and gain on sale of investment for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003
     and 2001 are contained in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     Detailed explanations of the special charges for the fiscal years ended
     March 31, 2000 and 1999 are provided below. The following table presents a
     summary of special charges for the five-year period ended March 31, 2003:




(3)  We changed our revenue recognition policy as it relates to Asia regional
     distributors during fiscal 2003. See "Item 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
     ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - CHANGE IN
     ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE," beginning at page 24 below, for a discussion of this
     change.

FISCAL 2000

     TelCom recorded restructuring charges in its quarter ended March 31, 1999
of $0.3 million, primarily for employee severance costs. These charges have been
reflected in our fiscal 2000 operating results. All restructuring reserves
relating to these charges have been fully utilized.

     LEGAL SETTLEMENT WITH LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.

     On January 13, 1998, we finalized a settlement of patent litigation with
Lucent Technologies Inc. Under the terms of the settlement, we made a one-time
cash payment to Lucent and issued to Lucent a warrant to acquire 1,012,500
shares of our common stock at $7.48 per share. We originally assigned a value of
$3.3 million to the warrant and recorded the amount in accrued liabilities. The
warrant was exercised by the holder in fiscal 2002, and the $3.3 million was
reclassified to additional paid-in capital and is now reflected in our Statement
of Stockholders' Equity and Other Comprehensive Income. The terms of the
settlement also provided for a contingent payment to Lucent if our earnings per
share performance for the three and one-half year period ended June 30, 2001 did
not meet certain targeted levels. Based on the estimate of earnings per share
for the measurement period as of March 31, 1999, we provided appropriate
reserves of approximately $5.1 million to meet this liability. Due to the sale
of the warrant by the holder to a third party, the associated reserve became
unnecessary and $3.6 million of the special charge was reversed in the quarter
ended September 30, 1999.

     We also recorded a special charge related to other legal issues in the
amount of $1.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 1999.

     All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2000 actions
have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided
amounts.

FISCAL 1999

     We implemented two restructuring actions during the quarter ended March 31,
1999. First, we eliminated our 5-inch wafer fabrication line, which resulted in
a restructuring charge of $7.6 million in the March 1999 quarter. We also
decided to restructure our test operations by closing our Taiwan facility and
migrating that test capacity to our lower-cost Thailand facility. This action
resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.1 million in the March 1999 quarter.
These two restructuring actions were undertaken to improve manufacturing
flexibility, close our least cost-effective production capacity, and thereby
reduce operating costs.


     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from elimination of the
5-inch production capacity was:

     o    $6.8 million related to equipment that was written off
     o    $0.3 million related to employee severance costs, and
     o    $0.5 million related to other restructuring costs.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from the closure of the
Taiwan facility was $5.6 million related to employee severance costs and $0.5
million related to other restructuring costs.

     Included in the special charge recorded in the quarter ended March 31, 1999
was $1.8 million related to two legal settlements associated with intellectual
property matters, and $0.4 million related to the restructure of a portion of
our sales infrastructure.

     During the quarter ended June 30, 1998, we recognized a special charge of
$3.8 million, which was comprised of a $3.3 million legal settlement with
another company involving an intellectual property dispute and a $0.5 million
charge associated with the restructuring of a portion of our sales
infrastructure. We also incurred charges of $1.7 million for the write-off of
obsolete products due to the introduction of newer products, charging this to
cost of goods sold.

     In August 1998, TelCom announced plans to shut down its 5-inch wafer
fabrication facility in Mountain View, California and use third-party foundries
for all of its wafer fabrication requirements. In conjunction with the shut-down
of its wafer fabrication facility, TelCom recorded fab closure charges totaling
$7.2 million, predominately associated with the write-down and write-off of
manufacturing equipment and facilities improvements and related charges
associated with the manufacturing restructuring. All restructuring reserves
relating to these charges have been fully utilized.

     KEELOQ(R) HOPPING CODE

     On November 17, 1995, we acquired the KEELOQ(R) hopping code technology and
patents developed by Nanoteq Ltd. of the Republic of South Africa, and marketing
rights related thereto. The acquisition of KEELOQ(R) was treated as an asset
purchase for accounting purposes. The amount paid for KEELOQ(R), including
related costs, was $12.9 million. In December 1995, we wrote off $11.4 million,
which represented the portion of the purchase price relating to in-process R&D
costs, as well as all acquisition-related expenses. The remaining $1.5 million
was capitalized as purchased technology. The amount of the purchased technology
was determined by applying a discounted cash flow model to the expected future
revenue stream of the products acquired.

     In March 1999, a second cash payment of $10.3 million was made in
accordance with the terms of the original purchase agreement, and was
capitalized as purchased technology. In addition, $1.1 million of legal costs
paid to defend the KEELOQ(R) intellectual property was also capitalized,
resulting in a total net carrying amount of $11.9 million including the $0.5
million of residual asset value capitalized a part of the initial payment, as of
March 31, 1999. Although we were obligated to make the second payment, we were
concerned that the recoverability of the carrying amount of the technology asset
might not be recoverable due to change in the forecasted cash flows related to
the KEELOQ(R) products. In accordance with SFAS 121, ACCOUNTING FOR THE
IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS AND FOR LONG LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF,
paragraphs 4 through 11, we prepared an undiscounted cash flow analysis at March
31, 1999, which determined that the value of the KEELOQ(R) technology was
impaired. We measured the impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis to
determine the fair value of the asset, which was deemed to be $4.3 million,
resulting in an impairment write-down of $7.6 million. The value of the
purchased technology remaining at March 31, 1999 of $4.3 million was amortized
over 3 years, the remaining life of the technology.

     All restructuring reserves relating to the fiscal 1999 actions have been
fully utilized.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

     OUR MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES, INCLUDING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR STRATEGY, FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE AND REVENUE SOURCES. WE USE WORDS SUCH AS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE,"
"PLAN," "EXPECT," "FUTURE," "INTEND" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS TO IDENTIFY
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. OUR ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE
RESULTS ANTICIPATED IN


THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF CERTAIN FACTORS INCLUDING THOSE
SET FORTH IN THIS ITEM 7, AND UNDER "ITEM 1 - BUSINESS - ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT
MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," BEGINNING AT PAGE 11, ABOVE, AND ELSEWHERE IN
THIS FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS,
LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. YOU SHOULD NOT PLACE UNDUE
RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE DISCLAIM ANY OBLIGATION TO
UPDATE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.

     On January 16, 2001, we merged with TelCom and accounted for the merger as
a pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements have
been restated to include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented.
TelCom had a December 31 fiscal year end, thus the consolidated financial
statements presented for March 31, 2000 and 1999 have been combined with the
operations of TelCom as of and for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.
We have conformed the TelCom financial data to a March 31 year end for the March
31, 2001 fiscal year.

RECENT DEVELOPMENT

     On April 7, 2003, we announced our intention to close our Chandler, Arizona
(Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrate certain Fab 1 personnel and
processes into our Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer fabrication facility. This
decision was made as a result of days of inventory at March 31, 2003 reaching
128 days, increasing from 110 days at December 31, 2002. This increase in
inventory reflects the lower demand for our products that we experienced in the
March 2003 quarter. We made the decision to close Fab 1 in order to better align
our production capacity to current demand requirements. This decision making
process included a review of our capacity including the forthcoming start-up of
our Gresham Oregon (Fab 4) wafer fabrication facility which is required to
produce our more advanced products. We expect to complete the integration
process during the quarter ending June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will cease to
operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and the
integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in a
reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the first
quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges and other
expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1 of between $27 million and $33
million.

CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

     We have historically recognized revenue from sales to our Americas,
European and multinational Asian distributors at Point of Sale (POS), or when
those distributors sell our products to their customers, and prior to fiscal
2003 we recognized revenue on sales to regional Asian distributors at Point of
Purchase (POP), or when we shipped product to these distributors. Upon shipment,
amounts billed to distributors at POS are included as accounts receivable,
inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as
a current liability until the product is sold by the distributor to its
customers.

     On March 18, 2003, we announced that we would change our revenue
recognition policy relating to regional Asian distributors from POP to POS. We
believe that revenue recognition at POS for sales to distributors as our sole
revenue recognition policy worldwide is a more reflective measure of end
customer demand for our products. To implement the change in revenue
recognition, we recorded the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle of $11.4 million (net of income taxes of $6.6 million) as of April 1,
2002, the beginning of fiscal 2003. The cumulative effect of this change in
accounting principle was calculated by multiplying the quantity of our inventory
that the regional Asia distributors maintained as of April 1, 2002 by the gross
margin we would realize on those sales, net of related income tax. We restated
our quarterly results for fiscal 2003 to conform to the change in accounting
principle and have included at Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial Statements
a comparative table of our earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal 2003
with and without the change in accounting principle. The restatement of the
first three quarters of fiscal 2003 resulted in a cumulative reduction in
revenue of approximately $8.7 million and a cumulative reduction in net income
of approximately $2.4 million or $.01 per share.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

     GENERAL

     Our discussion and analysis of Microchip's financial condition and results
of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting
our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income
taxes, property plant and equipment, litigation and impairment of property,


plant and equipment and assets held for sale. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. Results may differ from these estimates due
to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the
following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and
estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION

     We recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs. For sales
recorded upon shipment, we record reserves to cover the estimated customer
returns. Returns have historically been less than 1.5% of sales. To the extent
rates of return change, our estimates for the reserves necessary to cover such
returns would also change. Our distributors have broad rights to return products
and price protection rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the
distributor sells the product to their customers. Upon shipment, amounts billed
to distributors are included as accounts receivable, inventory is relieved, the
sale is deferred and the gross margin is reflected as a current liability until
the product is sold by the distributor to their customers. We changed our
revenue recognition policy as it relates to sales to Asia regional distributors
during fiscal 2003 as described above at page 24 and in Note 1 to our
consolidated financial statements.

     INVENTORIES

     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence
or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost
of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future
demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable
than those we projected are, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and
charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later
suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our
reserves for obsolescence, we generally evaluate estimates of demand over a
12-month period which is based on the most recent quarter multiplied by four and
provide reserves for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month
demand.

     INCOME TAXES

     As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements,
we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in
which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax
exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in
deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated
balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction
and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we
believe that it is "more likely than not" that our deferred tax assets will be
recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be
able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an
adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period
such determination was made. At March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was
$116.5 million.

     Numerous taxing authorities in the countries in which we do business are
increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We
believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset the potential tax
liabilities that may arise upon audit in these countries. If such amounts
ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves
would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no
longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than the
ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would result.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX
ASSET AND THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG
OTHERS: RESULTS OF ANY AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE VARIOUS TAXING AUTHORITIES IN THE
COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; THE LEVEL OF OUR TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER
OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS AVAILABLE FROM OUR
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS; CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; AND TAXATION
RATES IN GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS.


     PROPERTY PLANT & EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and
improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when
incurred. At March 31, 2003, the carrying value of our property and equipment
totaled $767.9 million, which represents 53.8% of our total assets. This
carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting
policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgements relative to
the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which
range from five to seven years on manufacturing equipment and approximately 30
years on buildings.

     Fab 4 has not been placed in service and the related depreciation of the
assets at Fab 4 has not commenced. The lives to be used for depreciating the
equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in
service. We do not believe that the temporary idling of such assets has impaired
the estimated life or values of the underlying assets.

     In April 2003, we announced our intention to close Fab 1 and integrate
certain Fab 1 personnel and processes into Fab 2. We expect to complete the
integration process during the quarter ended June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1
will cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and
the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will result in
a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. We expect that, in the
first quarter of fiscal 2004, we will incur accelerated depreciation charges on
the underlying assets and other expenses related to the shut down of Fab 1.

     The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our
property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and
expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of
different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our
property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and
operations, would likely result in materially different carrying values of
assets and results of operations.

     We do not currently hold title to the land on which our Thailand facility
resides. The land is subject to a complex restructuring situation relating to
the seller of the land. We have provided reserves that we estimate will be
adequate to obtain full title. Such reserves are set at the estimated fair value
of the land. However, timing of the resolution and the ultimate amount to be
paid could change.

     LITIGATION

     Our current estimated range of liability related to certain pending
litigation is based on the probable loss of claims for which we can estimate the
amount and range of loss, and recorded reserves were not significant at March
31, 2003.

     Because of the uncertainties related to both the probability of loss and
the amount and range of loss on the remaining pending litigation, we are unable
to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an
unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess
the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our
estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could
materially impact our results of operation and financial position.

     IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

     We assess whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are
present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less
than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the
excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values.
Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other
methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we
recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the
extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset
are less than the asset's carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining
estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or
additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors
influencing our estimates change.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of
net sales for the years indicated:

                                                      Year Ended March 31,
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                  2003        2002        2001
                                                 ------      ------      ------
Net sales ..................................      100.0%      100.0%      100.0%
Cost of sales ..............................       45.9%       49.8%       46.8%
                                                 ------      ------      ------
Gross profit ...............................       54.1%       50.2%       53.2%
Research and development ...................       13.5%       14.3%       11.0%
Selling, general and administrative ........       13.7%       14.5%       14.4%
Special charges ............................        7.8%         --         2.4%
                                                 ------      ------      ------
Operating income ...........................       19.1%       21.4%       25.4%
                                                 ======      ======      ======

     NET SALES

     We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our
products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of market segments, perform
on-going credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no
collateral.

     Our net sales of $651.5 million in fiscal 2003 increased by $80.2 million,
or 14.0%, over fiscal 2002, and net sales of $571.3 million in fiscal 2002
decreased by $144.5 million, or 20.2%, over fiscal 2001. The increase in net
sales in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from increased
demand, predominantly for our proprietary microcontroller and analog and
interface products. The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal
2001 resulted primarily from slowing demand from end markets, and to a lesser
extent from inventory corrections at our customers, overall semiconductor
industry conditions and Serial EEPROM pricing declines. We believe that we have
continued to grow our percentage of market share in the embedded control market
over the last three fiscal years. Key factors that have driven our net sales
performance during the last three fiscal years include:

     o    continued market share gains
     o    increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products
     o    our new product offerings that have increased our served available
          market, and
     o    increasing demand for our programmable products.

     Sales by product line for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands):



     Certain reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period
amounts to the current period presentation.

     MICROCONTROLLERS

     Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our
total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems
accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in fiscal 2003,
approximately 78% of our total net sales in fiscal 2002 and approximately 66% of
our total net sales in fiscal 2001.


     Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 17% in
fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002. The increase in net sales was primarily
due to increased demand for our microcontroller products in end markets, driven
principally by market share gains and those factors described above under "NET
SALES" at page 27. The end markets that we serve include the automotive,
communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. During
fiscal 2002 the semiconductor industry experienced significant demand reductions
based on overall market conditions. Net sales of our microcontroller products
decreased approximately 5% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001. The decrease
in net sales of our microcontroller products was significantly lower than the
decrease in our other product lines, due primarily to our continuing design win
performance and the overall positioning of our proprietary product offerings.

     Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease
over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of
our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to
the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to
continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller
product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to in
the past, and expect to be able to in the future, moderate average selling price
declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with
more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling
prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing
pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results.

     MEMORY PRODUCTS

     Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 13% of our total
net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 15% of our total net sales in fiscal
2002 and approximately 25% of our total net sales in fiscal 2001.

     Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 2% in fiscal 2003,
compared to fiscal 2002, driven primarily by customer demand conditions within
the Serial EEPROM market, which products comprise substantially all of our
memory product net sales. Net sales of our memory products decreased by
approximately 52% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001, driven by over supply
in the market and significant pricing pressures.

     Serial EEPROM product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature,
with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability,
driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business
cycle. During the past three fiscal years, we have experienced several Serial
EEPROM product pricing trends due to market conditions. In fiscal 2001 we
experienced product pricing increases due to supply constraints within the
market. We experienced significant competitive downward pricing pressures in our
Serial EEPROM product lines during the first half of fiscal 2002, returning to
modest pricing declines in the second half of fiscal 2002. We experienced modest
pricing declines in our Serial EEPROM product lines during fiscal 2003 compared
to fiscal 2002. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience,
varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products.
We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM
products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would
adversely affect our operating results.

     ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCTS

     Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 7%
of our total net sales in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 and approximately 10% of
our total net sales in fiscal 2001.

     Net sales of our analog and interface products increased approximately 13%
in fiscal 2003, compared to fiscal 2002 driven primarily by new proprietary
design wins, supply and demand conditions within the market and our ability to
gain market share. Net sales of our analog and interface products decreased
approximately 39% in fiscal 2002, compared to fiscal 2001 as a result of
decreased demand, primarily in the telecommunications market.

     Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in
nature. Currently, we consider approximately 45% of our analog and interface
product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable,
similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
The non-proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience
price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those
products. During fiscal 2003, pricing of our non-proprietary analog and
interface products was approximately flat compared to fiscal 2002. During fiscal
2002, our analog and interface products experienced price reductions of
approximately 25% compared to fiscal 2001. The price decreases experienced in
fiscal 2002 can be primarily attributed to the supply and demand environment and


the integration of the TelCom products into our pricing structure. We may be
unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface
products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would
adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of
our analog and interface products to increase over time.

     TURNS ORDERS

     Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments
from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter,
which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a
quarter based on the orders needed to meet the revenue target that we set
entering the quarter. We emphasize our ability to respond quickly to customer
orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing
orders with short delivery schedules. Turns orders directly correlate to product
lead times, which are generally three weeks or less for the majority of our
products, essentially unchanged from lead times a year ago. Shorter lead times
generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively
high in any particular quarter and reduces our visibility on future product
shipments. With current lead times for the majority of our products being three
weeks or less, generally, customers do not place orders beyond their immediate
requirements.

     The percentage of turns orders in any given quarter is dependent on overall
semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. As such, our
percentage of turns orders required in any particular quarter has fluctuated
over the last three fiscal years between 20% and 62%. During fiscal 2003 our
turns orders were at the high end of this range.

     Turns orders are difficult to predict, and we may not experience the
combination of turns orders and shipments from backlog in a quarter that would
be sufficient to achieve anticipated net sales. If we do not achieve a
sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter, our net sales and
operating results will suffer.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPETITIVE PRICING PRESSURE IN OUR
MICROCONTROLLER, SERIAL EEPROM AND ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT LINES, OUR
ABILITY TO MODERATE FUTURE AVERAGE SELLING PRICE DECLINES IN OUR MICROCONTROLLER
PRODUCT LINES AND THE PROPRIETARY PORTION OF OUR ANALOG AND INTERFACE PRODUCT
LINES INCREASING OVER TIME ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD
DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE LEVEL OF
ORDERS THAT ARE RECEIVED AND CAN BE SHIPPED IN A QUARTER; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR
OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH
PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF
CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS' INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY;
LEVEL OF SELL-THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN ANY PARTICULAR
FISCAL PERIOD; OUR ABILITY TO RAMP PRODUCTS INTO VOLUME PRODUCTION; COMPETITION
AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON PRICING AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY; DISRUPTIONS IN
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY
TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE
OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END-USER PURCHASES
RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS
THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL
INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE
MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND
THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS
IN PRODUCTION YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION;
CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER FIXED
MANUFACTURING COSTS; AND GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS.

     DISTRIBUTION

     Distributors accounted for 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, 62% of our
net sales in fiscal 2002 and 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2001.

     Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in
fiscal 2003, 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and 14% of our net sales in
fiscal 2001.

     Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and
we, or our distributors, may terminate their relationships with us with little
or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one
or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter
and could result in an increase in inventory returns.

     At March 31, 2003, distributors were maintaining an average of
approximately 2.5 months of inventory of our products. Over the past three
fiscal years, the months of inventory maintained by our distributors have
fluctuated between approximately 2.3 and 3.8 months. While inventory levels at
our distributors are at the low end of the range we have experienced over the
last three years, we would not anticipate any significant change in inventory
holding patterns until lead times for our products, and the industry generally,


extend beyond the current levels. As we recognize revenue based on sell through
for all of our distributors, we do not believe that inventory holding patterns
at our distributors will impact our net sales.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING OUR ANTICIPATION THAT DISTRIBUTOR
INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS WILL NOT SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE UNTIL LEAD TIMES FOR
OUR PRODUCTS, AND THE INDUSTRY IN GENERAL, EXTEND BEYOND THE CURRENT LEVELS AND
OUR BELIEF THAT INVENTORY HOLDING PATTERNS AT OUR DISTRIBUTORS WILL NOT IMPACT
OUR NET SALES ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER
MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: THE RATE OF RECOVERY
IN THE OVERALL ECONOMY AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF CURRENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL
CONDITIONS; CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR
CUSTOMERS; THE LEVEL AND TIMING AT WHICH PREVIOUS DESIGN WINS BECOME ACTUAL
ORDERS AND SALES; INVENTORY MIX AND TIMING OF CUSTOMER ORDERS; CUSTOMERS'
INVENTORY LEVELS, ORDER PATTERNS AND SEASONALITY; THE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND
CUSTOMER ORDER PATTERNS DUE TO MAJOR PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN, SUCH AS THE SPREAD
OF THE SARS VIRUS; LEVEL OF SELL-THROUGH OF OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH DISTRIBUTION IN
ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD; DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR
INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED
CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE
SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END-USER PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS;
IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF
FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL INSTABILITY; THE CYCLICAL
NATURE OF BOTH THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR
PRODUCTS; MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; AND
THE FINANCIAL CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS.

     SALES BY GEOGRAPHY

     Sales by geography for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
were as follows (dollars in thousands):

                                        Year Ended March 31,
                    -----------------------------------------------------------
                      2003       %         2002       %         2001       %
                    --------   ------    --------   ------    --------   ------
Americas            $219,504     33.7    $192,924     33.8    $236,295     33.0
Europe               177,727     27.3     179,355     31.4     219,302     30.6
Asia                 254,231     39.0     198,975     34.8     260,133     36.4
                    --------   ------    --------   ------    --------   ------

Total Sales         $651,462    100.0%   $571,254    100.0%   $715,730    100.0%
                    ========   ======    ========   ======    ========   ======

     Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe,
which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive,
communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas
sales include sales to customers in the United States, Canada, Central America
and South America.

     Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 71% of our net sales
in fiscal 2003, approximately 69% of our net sales in fiscal 2002 and
approximately 68% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2001. The majority of our
foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated.

     Sales to customers in China accounted for approximately 13% of our net
sales in fiscal 2003. We did not have sales into any other countries that
exceeded 10% of our net sales during the periods covered by this report.

     GROSS PROFIT

     Our gross profit was $352.2 million in fiscal 2003, $286.7 million in
fiscal 2002 and $380.7 million in fiscal 2001. Gross profit as a percent of
sales was 54.1% in fiscal 2003, 50.2% in fiscal 2002 and 53.2% in fiscal 2001.

     The most significant factors affecting gross profit percentage over the
past three fiscal years were:

     o    higher levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2003,
          compared to fiscal 2002
     o    reduced levels of manufacturing capacity utilization in fiscal 2002,
          compared to fiscal 2001
     o    continued cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test
          manufacturing
     o    our ability to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller
          products where moderate downward pricing pressures have been offset by
          introduction of new products with more features and higher selling
          prices
     o    varying positive and negative factors impacting the average selling
          prices of our Serial EEPROM products


     o    fluctuations in the product mix of proprietary microcontroller and
          analog products and related Serial EEPROM products
     o    the sale of inventory that was previously reserved for, and
     o    one-week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002.

     By March 31, 2001, we reduced cumulative wafer capacity at Fab 1 and Fab 2
by approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels, in response to
business conditions that resulted in decreased product demand. During fiscal
2002, we operated at approximately 70% of our cumulative total Fab 1 and Fab 2
capacity due to the capacity reductions implemented in the March 2001 quarter
and one-week plant shutdowns in each quarter of fiscal 2002. Our overall gross
margins in fiscal 2002 were negatively impacted by these actions due to the
relatively high fixed costs inherent in our wafer fabrication manufacturing.
During fiscal 2003, we operated at approximately 85% of our cumulative total Fab
1 and Fab 2 capacity, which favorably impacted gross margins, compared to fiscal
2002.

     The process technologies utilized and the size of the wafers on which our
products are produced impact our gross margins. Fabs 1 and 2 currently utilize
various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilize our 0.5 to
1.0-micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced
process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. In fiscal 2002 and
fiscal 2003, approximately 80% of our production was on 8-inch wafers. In fiscal
2001, approximately 62% of our production was on 8-inch wafers. All of our
production will be on 8-inch wafers once the Fab 1 personnel and processes are
integrated into Fab 2.

     Our overall inventory levels were $102.3 million at March 31, 2003,
compared to $88.6 million at March 31, 2002 and $95.7 million at March 31, 2001.
We had 128 days of inventory on our balance sheet at March 31, 2003, compared to
110 days at March 31, 2002 and 114 days at March 31, 2001. See "ITEM 7 -
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS - RECENT DEVELOPMENT," beginning at page 24 above, for a discussion
of our anticipated actions related to our overall inventory levels.

     We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven
primarily by the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog and interface
and memory products and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in
a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption,
wafer fab loading levels and competitive and economic conditions.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS RELATING TO OUR TRANSITION TO ADVANCED PROCESS
TECHNOLOGIES TO REDUCE FUTURE MANUFACTURING COSTS AND THE FLUCTUATION OF GROSS
MARGINS OVER TIME ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER
MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR
OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PRODUCTS OF OUR CUSTOMERS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRODUCTION
YIELDS, PRODUCTION EFFICIENCIES AND OVERALL CAPACITY UTILIZATION; CHANGES IN
CAPACITY UTILIZATION; ABSORPTION OF FIXED COSTS, LABOR AND OTHER DIRECT
MANUFACTURING COSTS; COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURE ON PRICING;
DISRUPTIONS IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, OR INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OR DELIVERY
OCCASIONED BY TERRORIST ACTIVITY, ARMED CONFLICT, WAR OR AN UNEXPECTED INCREASE
IN THE PRICE OF, OR DECREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF, OIL RESULTING IN REDUCED END-USER
PURCHASES RELATIVE TO EXPECTATIONS; IMPACT OF EVENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES,
SUCH AS THE BUSINESS IMPACT OF FLUCTUATING CURRENCY RATES OR UNREST OR POLITICAL
INSTABILITY; OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AS NEEDED; COST AND
AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS; CHANGES IN PRODUCT MIX; AND OTHER GENERAL
INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS.

     At March 31, 2003, approximately 77% of our assembly requirements were
being performed in our Thailand facility, compared to approximately 53% as of
March 31, 2002. Third-party contractors located throughout Asia perform the
balance of our assembly operations. Substantially all of our test requirements
were being performed in our Thailand facility as of March 31, 2003 and March 31,
2002. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand
facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to third-party
contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these
portions of the manufacturing process.

     Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control
over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the
quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our
future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to
maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at
approximately their current levels.


     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)

     R&D expenses for fiscal 2003 were $88.0 million, or 13.5% of sales,
compared to $81.7 million, or 14.3% of sales, for fiscal 2002, and $78.6
million, or 11.0% of sales, for fiscal 2001. We are committed to investing in
new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our
design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are
significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. We expense all R&D
costs as incurred. R&D expenses include expenditures for labor, depreciation,
masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process
technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design
environments.

     R&D expenses increased $6.3 million, or 7.7%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal
2002. R&D expenses increased $3.1 million, or 3.9%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal
2001. The primary reason for the dollar increase in R&D costs in fiscal 2003
over fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 was increased labor and professional service
costs associated with expanding our technical resources and the ongoing R&D
expenses acquired as part of the acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. described at
"SPECIAL CHARGES - FISCAL 2003 - POWERSMART IN-PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
CHARGE," below at page 33. R&D expenses would have been higher in fiscal 2002 if
we had not implemented unpaid one-week shutdowns in each of the first two
quarters of fiscal 2002.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

     Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2003 were $89.4
million, or 13.7% of sales, compared to $82.6 million, or 14.5% of sales, for
fiscal 2002 and $102.6 million, or 14.4% of sales, for fiscal 2001. Selling,
general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field
sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional
expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses
also include costs related to our direct sales force and field applications
engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting
customers in the selection and use of our products.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.7 million, or
8.2%, for fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. The primary reason for the dollar
increase in selling, general and administrative costs in fiscal 2003 over fiscal
2002 relate to increased labor costs due to increases in headcount, salaries and
bonuses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $20.0 million,
or 19.5%, for fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001, primarily due to reductions in
wages, bonuses and recruitment costs and unpaid one-week shutdowns in each of
the first two quarters of fiscal 2002.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily
due to revenue and operating expense levels.

     SPECIAL CHARGES

     The following table presents a summary of special charges for the fiscal
years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:

                                                Year Ended March 31,
                                         --------------------------------
                                           2003        2002        2001
                                         --------    --------    --------
                                                  (in thousands)

     Fab 3 impairment charge             $ 41,500    $     --    $     --
     In-process research & development
       charge                               9,300          --          --
     Restructuring charges                     --          --       6,409
     TelCom merger charges                     --          --      10,949
                                         --------    --------    --------

     Totals                              $ 50,800    $     --    $ 17,358
                                         ========    ========    ========


FISCAL 2003

     FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE

     In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "ACCOUNTING
FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS," which is applicable to
financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS
144 provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of
and significantly changes the criteria that must be met to classify an asset as
held-for-sale. Classification as held-for-sale is an important distinction
because assets held-for-sale are not depreciated and are stated at the lower of
book value or fair value less cost to sell. SFAS 144 is effective for all of our
financial statements issued subsequent to April 1, 2002. In accordance with SFAS
144, we recorded a $41.5 million asset impairment charge during the quarter
ended September 30, 2002, as described below.

     We acquired Fab 3, a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Puyallup,
Washington, in July 2000. The original purchase consisted of semiconductor
manufacturing facilities and real property. It was our intention to bring Fab 3
to productive readiness and commence volume production of 8-inch wafers using
our 0.7 and 0.5 micron process technologies by August 2001. We delayed our
production start up at Fab 3 due to deteriorating business conditions in the
semiconductor industry during fiscal 2002. Fab 3 has never been brought to
productive readiness.

     On August 23, 2002, we acquired Fab 4, a semiconductor manufacturing
facility in Gresham, Oregon. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
on page F-11, below. We decided to purchase Fab 4 instead of bringing Fab 3 to
productive readiness because, among other things, the cost of the manufacturing
equipment needed to ramp production at Fab 3 over the next several years was
significantly higher than the total purchase price of Fab 4, and the time to
bring Fab 4 to productive readiness was significantly less than the time
required to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness.

     After the acquisition of Fab 4 was completed, we undertook an analysis of
the potential production capacity at Fab 4. The results of the production
capacity analysis led us to determine that Fab 3's capacity would not be needed
in the foreseeable future and during the September 2002 quarter we committed to
a plan to sell Fab 3. We have retained a third-party broker to market Fab 3 on
our behalf. Accordingly, Fab 3 was classified as an asset held-for-sale as of
September 30, 2002 and maintained that classification at March 31, 2003.

     We retained an independent third-party firm, other than our independent
auditors, to complete a fair value appraisal of Fab 3. The independent third
party used the market approach and considered sales of comparable properties in
determining the fair value of Fab 3. The comparable sales included eight
properties, including our purchases of Fab 3 in July 2000 and Fab 4 in August
2002. Based on the results of this appraisal, we recorded an asset impairment
charge on Fab 3 of $36.9 million, including estimated costs to sell. The
remaining value of $60.2 million is classified as an asset held-for-sale and is
included as a component of other current assets at March 31, 2003.

     During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, we also recorded an asset
impairment charge of $4.6 million to write-down certain excess manufacturing
equipment located at Fab 3 to its net realizable value of $212,000. This
manufacturing equipment became "excess" as a result of duplicate equipment
acquired in the purchase of Fab 4. The net realizable value for the excess
manufacturing equipment was determined based on management estimates.
Substantially all of the other manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 has been
transferred to and will be used in our other wafer fabrication facilities
located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) and Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4).

     If actual market conditions are less favorable than those estimated in the
appraisal, or if future market conditions deteriorate, the net proceeds from the
assets held-for-sale could be less than the amount estimated in the financial
statements and additional charges could result prior to or at the time of the
sale of the facility.

     POWERSMART IN-PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE

     During the quarter ended June 30, 2002, purchased in-process research and
development of $9.3 million, associated with our acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc.
was written off at the date of the acquisition (June 5, 2002) in accordance with
FASB Interpretation No. 4, "APPLICABILITY OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 2 BUSINESS
COMBINATIONS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE PURCHASE METHOD" (FIN 4). The value assigned
to the in-process research and development was determined by an independent
valuation analysis performed by a firm other than our independent auditors. As
of the valuation date, there were 15 projects that were considered to be in
process. The values of the projects were determined based on analyses of cash
flows to be generated by the products that are expected to result from the


in-process projects. These cash flows were estimated by forecasting total
revenues expected from these products then deducting appropriate operating
expenses, cash flow adjustments and contributory asset returns to establish a
forecast of net return on in-process technology. These net returns were
substantially reduced to take into account the time value of money and the risks
associated with the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in achieving
commercial readiness. The above analysis resulted in $9.3 million of value
assigned to acquired in-process research and development, which was expensed on
the acquisition date in accordance with FIN 4. We believe the assumptions used
in valuing the in-process research and development are reasonable, but are
inherently uncertain, and no assurance can be given that the assumptions made
will occur. During fiscal 2003, we incurred development costs of approximately
$3.2 million related to the acquired in-process research and development, and
should the projects continue to move toward commercialization, we estimate that
future expenditures could approximate $2.0 million over the next few years. None
of the in-process research and development projects had been completed as of
March 31, 2003.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENT RELATING TO OUR ESTIMATED FUTURE EXPENDITURES ON
THE ACQUIRED IN-PROCESS R&D PROJECTS IS A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT. ACTUAL
RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS:
DELAYS IN COMPLETION OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; CHANGES IN OUR PRIORITIZATION OF
PROJECTS; CHANGES IN THE SPECIFICATIONS OF A PARTICULAR PROJECT; UNFORESEEN
ENGINEERING PROBLEMS; AND UNANTICIPATED COSTS.

FISCAL 2002

     There were no special charges incurred during fiscal 2002.

FISCAL 2001

     During the March 2001 quarter, we implemented capacity and cost reduction
actions necessitated by adverse business conditions in the semiconductor
industry. We reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity at Fabs 1 and 2 by
approximately 24%, compared to our December 31, 2000 levels. We also decided to
close our Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the TelCom transaction,
and migrate these test requirements to our Thailand test facility. The capacity
reduction at Fabs 1 and 2 was completed by the end of the March 2001 quarter.
The closure of the Hong Kong facility was completed by June 30, 2001. These
actions resulted in a restructuring charge of $6.4 million in the March 2001
quarter. These actions were undertaken to reduce both manufacturing capacity and
manufacturing costs. The reduction in wafer fab capacity was required due to
reduced customer demand. The closure of the Hong Kong facility was undertaken to
rationalize our test manufacturing capacity and migrate the test requirements to
our more cost-effective test facility in Thailand.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions were:

     o    $4.0 million related to equipment that was written off
     o    $2.1 million related to employee severance costs, and
     o    $0.3 million related to other restructuring costs.

     On January 16, 2001, we completed our merger with TelCom. Under the terms
of the merger agreement, we exchanged each share of TelCom common stock for
0.795 of a share of our common stock. We issued 14,702,184 shares of our common
stock and assumed all outstanding TelCom stock options. The transaction was
structured as a tax-free reorganization and has been accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests.

     During the March 2001 quarter, we recognized a special charge of $10.9
million for costs associated with the TelCom transaction. These costs included:

     o    $7.3 million associated with investment banking fees
     o    $1.6 million associated with legal and accounting fees
     o    $0.9 million of severance costs, and
     o    $1.1 million related to other costs.

     All reserves relating to the special charges for the fiscal 2001 actions
have been fully utilized and there were no reversals of previously provided
amounts.


     OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

     Interest income in fiscal 2003 decreased from interest income in fiscal
2002 as our average invested cash balances and the interest rates applicable to
our invested cash balances were lower in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002.
Interest income in fiscal 2002 decreased from interest income in fiscal 2001,
although average invested cash balances were higher in fiscal 2002. The decrease
in interest income in fiscal 2002 was primarily driven by significantly lower
interest rates applicable to our invested cash balances during fiscal 2002
compared to the interest rates during fiscal 2001.

     PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     Provisions for income taxes reflect tax on foreign earnings and federal and
state tax on U.S. earnings. Our effective tax rate was 22.3% in fiscal 2003,
25.5% in fiscal 2002 and 27.2% in fiscal 2001, and is lower than statutory rates
in the United States due primarily to lower tax rates at our foreign locations
and R&D tax credits. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2003
compared to fiscal 2002 was due to the impairment portion of the special charges
which provided an income tax benefit at a greater rate than our historic
effective rate given the 40% tax jurisdiction in which it occurred. Excluding
special charges, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2003 was 25.3%. The decrease
in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 related to
increased R&D tax credits that were available to us.

     As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements,
we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in
which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax
exposure, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in
deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated
balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset
will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction
and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we
believe that our deferred tax asset will be recovered from future taxable
income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of
our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax
asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At
March 31, 2003, our gross deferred tax asset was $116.5 million. Various taxing
authorities in the United States and other countries in which we do business are
increasing their scrutiny of various tax structures employed by businesses. We
believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax
liabilities that may arise upon audit in the United States and other countries
in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the
resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded
in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts
ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to
expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined.

     Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax
holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our
investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Although our tax
holidays in Thailand will partially expire in October 2003, our manufacturing
operations in Thailand will be conducted using equipment that was invested
pursuant to tax holidays that do not begin to expire until September 2006. We
believe that the expiration of a portion of our tax holiday in Thailand will not
have a material impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2004.

     Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing
authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
We are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal
years ended March 31, 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE RECOVERABILITY OF OUR DEFERRED TAX
ASSET FROM OUR FUTURE TAXABLE INCOME, THE ADEQUACY OF OUR TAX RESERVES TO OFFSET
ANY POTENTIAL TAX LIABILITIES THAT MAY ARISE UPON AUDIT AND OUR BELIEF THAT THE
EXPIRATION OF A PORTION OF OUR THAI TAX HOLIDAY WILL NOT HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
IMPACT ON OUR FISCAL 2004 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.
ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG
OTHERS: CURRENT AND FUTURE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS; TAXATION RATES IN
GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS WHERE WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONS; RESULTS OF ANY CURRENT
OR FUTURE AUDIT CONDUCTED BY THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE OR OTHER TAXING
AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS; AND THE LEVEL OF OUR
TAXABLE INCOME AND WHETHER OUR TAXABLE INCOME WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO UTILIZE OUR
DEFERRED TAX ASSET.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     We had $216.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
at March 31, 2003, a decrease of $64.1 million from the March 31, 2002 balance.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments over this time
period is primarily attributable to the cash used in our June 5, 2002
acquisition of PowerSmart and our August 23, 2002 acquisition of Fab 4, offset
by cash generated from operating activities.

     On February 25, 2003, we elected to terminate our unsecured revolving
credit facility that we had maintained with a syndicate of banks since May 2000.
The $100.0 million credit facility was due to expire on May 31, 2003. There were
no borrowings against the credit facility on February 25, 2003. We did not
borrow against the credit facility in either fiscal 2003 or fiscal 2002

     During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003, we maintained an unsecured
short-term line of credit with various financial institutions in Asia totaling
$20.0 million (U.S. Dollar equivalent). There were no borrowings under the
foreign line of credit as of March 31, 2003, but an allocation of approximately
$0.9 million of the available line was made, relating to import guarantees
associated with our business in Thailand. There are no covenants related to the
foreign line of credit.

     Net cash provided from operating activities was $260.2 million for fiscal
2003, $178.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $254.4 million for fiscal 2001. The
increase in cash flow from operations was primarily due to our results of
operations after consideration of non-cash special charges. Pre-tax income in
fiscal 2003 increased approximately $51.9 million compared to fiscal 2002 after
consideration of non-cash special charges.

     Net cash used in investing activities was $376.8 million for fiscal 2003,
$138.7 million for fiscal 2002 and $399.1 million in fiscal 2001. The increase
in cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002 was
primarily due to our acquisitions of Fab 4 and PowerSmart, increases in our
short-term investment balances and increased capital expenditures.

     We enter into hedging transactions from time to time in an attempt to
minimize our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the
countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations have had a highly
inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that
inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we
conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the
future.

     Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of
actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures were $265.1
million in fiscal 2003, $44.7 million in fiscal 2002 and $441.1 million in
fiscal 2001. The primary reasons for the dollar increase in capital expenditures
in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 were the purchase of Fab 4, other
selective investments to increase our manufacturing capacity in response to
market demand and our continued investment in R&D equipment. In each of fiscal
2002 and fiscal 2001, capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of
production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We
currently intend to spend approximately $45 million during the next 12 months to
invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase,
capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs.

     At March 31, 2003, we had contractual obligations of approximately $11.6
million for the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment. The
majority of these contractual obligations mature in the quarter ending June 30,
2003.

     We expect to finance capital expenditures through our existing cash
balances, cash flows from operations, available debt arrangements and other
sources of financing, including possible issuances of equity and debt securities
depending on market conditions. We believe that the capital expenditures
anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide sufficient
manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs.

     THE FOREGOING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE ANTICIPATED LEVEL OF CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS, THE NATURE OF SUCH EXPENDITURES, THE
FINANCING AND SUFFICIENCY OF OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND THE BELIEF THAT
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ANTICIPATED TO BE INCURRED OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL
PROVIDE US SUFFICIENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY TO MEET OUR CURRENTLY ANTICIPATED
NEEDS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY
BECAUSE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS, AMONG OTHERS: CHANGES IN DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS AND THOSE OF OUR CUSTOMERS; CHANGES IN UTILIZATION OF CURRENT
MANUFACTURING CAPACITY; UNANTICIPATED COSTS IN BRINGING FAB 4 ON-LINE; MARKET
ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OF OUR CUSTOMERS' PRODUCTS; THE CYCLICAL NATURE
OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE MARKETS ADDRESSED BY OUR PRODUCTS; THE
AVAILABILITY AND COST OF RAW MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER SUPPLIES; ACTUAL
LEVELS OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES; THE COSTS AND OUTCOME OF ANY LITIGATION


INVOLVING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, CUSTOMER OR OTHER ISSUES; THE FINANCIAL
CONDITION OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND VENDORS; UNINSURED LOSSES; AND THE ECONOMIC,
POLITICAL AND OTHER CONDITIONS IN THE WORLDWIDE MARKETS SERVED BY US.

     Net cash used in financing activities was $3.1 million for fiscal 2003. Net
cash provided by financing activities was $16.1 million for fiscal 2002 and
$109.5 million for fiscal 2001. Proceeds from the sale of stock, the exercise of
stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plan were
$31.5 million for fiscal 2003, $43.8 million for fiscal 2002 and $118.5 million
for fiscal 2001. Repayments on lines of credit were $9.0 million in fiscal 2001.
Cash expended for the repurchase of our common stock was $26.5 million in fiscal
2003 and $27.8 million in fiscal 2002.

     On August 7, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up
to 2,500,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2003, we had repurchased 1,264,700
shares of common stock for $27,062,782. As of March 31, 2003, all but 311,855 of
the purchased shares had been reissued to fund stock option exercises and
purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. The timing and amount of any
future repurchases will depend upon market conditions and corporate
considerations.

     On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved
and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. The initial
quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share was paid on December 6, 2003 in the amount
of $4,060,766. A second quarterly dividend payment of $0.02 per share was paid
on February 28, 2003 in the amount of $4,068,480. A third quarterly dividend of
$0.024 per share was declared on April 24, 2003 and was paid on May 29, 2003 in
the amount of $4,893,296.

     We maintained a net shares settled forward contract during the years ended
March 31, 2002 and 2001. The table below contains a summary of the share and
cash activity under this contract:

                                                     2002           2001
                                                   --------       --------
                                                        (in thousands)

     Shares received                                     --            277
     Shares delivered                                  (573)          (996)
                                                   --------       --------
     Net shares received (delivered)                   (573)          (719)
                                                   ========       ========

     Cash received                                 $ 14,084       $ 17,190
     Cash delivered                                      --           (128)
                                                   --------       --------
     Net cash received (delivered)                 $ 14,084       $ 17,062
                                                   ========       ========

     During fiscal 2002, we made a net delivery of 572,645 shares of our common
stock. We also received approximately $14.1 million in connection with an early
termination covering 1,650,000 of the shares outstanding under the net shares
settled forward contract. We closed out the net shares settled forward contract
in its entirety on January 15, 2002 and made a cash payment of $27.8 million to
purchase the remaining 1,610,606 shares outstanding under the contract. The
purchased shares were held as treasury shares and were used to fund stock option
exercises and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan through April 9,
2002.

     We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated
cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor
industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must
constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital
equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek
additional equity or debt financing during the next 12 months for the capital
expenditures required to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product
assembly and test facilities, or other purposes. The timing and amount of any
such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand
for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, and competitive
factors. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on
acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in
incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.


OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

     We do not have any transactions, arrangements and other relationships with
unconsolidated entities that are reasonably likely to affect our liquidity or
capital resources. We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that
provided off-balance sheet financing, liquidity or market or credit risk
support, engage in leasing, hedging, research and development services, or other
relationships that expose us to liability that is not reflected on the face of
the financial statements. See Note 18 of the financial statements regarding our
lease commitments.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     SFAS 146

     In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 146 (SFAS No. 146), ACCOUNTING FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL
ACTIVITIES. SFAS No. 146 supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force No. 94-3 (EITF
94-3), LIABILITY RECOGNITION FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER
COSTS TO EXIT AN ACTIVITY (INCLUDING CERTAIN COSTS INCURRED IN A RESTRUCTURING).
SFAS 146 eliminates the provisions of EITF 94-3 that required a liability to be
recognized for certain exit or disposal activities at the date an entity
committed to an exit plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for costs
associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recognized when the liability
is incurred. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are
initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to
have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.

     SFAS 148

     In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED
COMPENSATION--TRANSITION AND DISCLOSURE. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION, to provide alternative methods of
transition to SFAS No. 123's fair value method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure provisions of
SFAS No. 123 and APB 28, INTERIM FINANCIAL REPORTING, to require disclosure in
the summary of significant accounting policies of the effects of an entity's
accounting policy with respect to stock-based employee compensation on reported
net income and earnings per share in annual and interim financial statements.
While SFAS No. 148 does not amend SFAS No. 123 to require companies to account
for employee stock options using the fair value method, the disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 148 are applicable to all companies with stock-based
employee compensation, regardless of whether they account for that compensation
using the fair value method of SFAS No. 123 or the intrinsic value method of APB
25. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, we have elected to continue to utilize the
accounting method prescribed by APB 25 and have adopted the disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 123 as of March 31, 2003.

     FIN 45

     In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45),
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees." FIN 45
requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability
for the fair value of the obligation it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee.
We will apply FIN 45 to guarantees, if any, issued after December 15, 2002. At
adoption, FIN 45 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated
statements of income or financial position. FIN 45 also requires guarantors to
disclose certain information for guarantees, including product warranties,
outstanding at March 31, 2003.

     FIN 46

     In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE
INTEREST ENTITIES, AN INTERPRETATION OF ACCOUNTING RESEARCH BULLETIN NO. 51."
FIN No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities, or VIEs, to be
consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in
the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest
or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its
activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
FIN No. 46 is effective for all VIEs created or acquired after January 31, 2003.
For VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN
No. 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after
June 15, 2003. We currently have no contractual relationship or other business
relationship with a variable interest entity and, therefore, we do not expect
the adoption of FIN No. 46 to have a material effect on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, was $208.7
million as of March 31, 2003, and $247.6 million as of March 31, 2002. These
securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk
and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates
were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from the levels of March 31,
2003 and March 31, 2002, the decline in the fair value of our investment
portfolio would not be material given that the our investments typically have
interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to current market rates.
Additionally, we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until
maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse
impact in income or cash flows.

     We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency
rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has
not been significant. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates
at March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2002, the effect on our financial position and
results of operation would not be material given that we enter into
foreign-currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency
rate fluctuations.

     During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a
variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to,
interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this
Item 7A, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these
risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the
adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not
anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made
that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The Consolidated Financial Statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(1) hereof are filed as part of this Form 10-K. See also Index to
Financial Statements, below.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Following the close of fiscal 2001, our Board of Directors, upon the
recommendation of the Audit Committee, determined not to renew the engagement of
KPMG LLP as Microchip's independent auditors. KPMG had served as our independent
auditors for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1993 through and including March
31, 2001. The decision to not renew KPMG's engagement did not occur due to any
existing or previous accounting disagreements with KPMG, and KPMG did not
express any disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinion, qualification or limitation
regarding our financial statements or the audit process, for the fiscal years
ended March 31, 2001 or 2000, or the interim period that had commenced April 1,
2001. Neither were there any accounting disagreements nor reportable events
within the meaning of Item 304(a)(1)(iv) and Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Securities and
Exchange Commission Regulation S-K for those periods. KPMG concurred with the
foregoing statements in this paragraph in a letter addressed to the Securities
and Exchange Commission. That letter was included in our Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2001, Exhibit 16.

     Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, on June 6, 2001, the Board
of Directors engaged Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, to audit our
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2002. We did not seek the
advice of Ernst & Young on specific audit issues relating to our consolidated
financial statements prior to engagement of that firm. We reported the
engagement of Ernst & Young in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 7,
2001.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information on the members of our Board of Directors is incorporated herein
by reference to our proxy statement for the 2003 annual meeting of stockholders
under the captions "The Board of Directors," and "Proposal One - Election of
Directors."

     Information on the composition of our audit committee and the members of
our audit committee, including information on our audit committee financial
expert, is incorporated by reference to our proxy statement for our 2003 annual
meeting of stockholders under the caption "The Board of Directors - Committees
of the Board of Directors - Audit Committee."


     Information on our executive officers is provided in Item I, Part I of this
Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers" at page 11, above.

     Information with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference to our
proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of stockholders under the caption
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated herein
by reference to the information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in
our proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of stockholders.

     Information with respect to director compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the caption "The Board of Directors -
Director Compensation" in our proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of
stockholders.

     Information with respect to compensation committee interlocks and insider
participation in compensation decisions is incorporated herein by reference to
the information under the caption "The Board of Directors - Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in our proxy statement for our
2003 annual meeting of stockholders.

     Our board compensation committee report on executive compensation is
incorporated herein by reference to the information under the caption "Executive
Compensation - Board Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation" in
our proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of stockholders.

     Information with respect to changes in our cumulative shareholder return on
our common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
the caption "Performance Graph" in our proxy statement for our 2003 annual
meeting of stockholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Information with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our
equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to the information
under the caption "Executive Compensation - Equity Compensation Plan
Information" in our proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of stockholders.

     Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
caption "Security Ownership of Principal Stockholders, Directors and Executive
Officers" in our proxy statement for our 2003 annual meeting of stockholders.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Not applicable.

ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     Our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, after
evaluating the effectiveness of our "disclosure controls and procedures" (as
defined in Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended) as of a date within 90 days of our filing of this Form 10-K,
referred to as the "Evaluation Date," have concluded that, as of the Evaluation
Date, our disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective to
ensure the timely collection, evaluation and disclosure of information relating
to us and our consolidated subsidiaries that would potentially be subject to
disclosure under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.


     CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROLS

     There were no significant changes in our internal controls or other factors
that could significantly affect our internal controls subsequent to the
Evaluation Date. No significant deficiencies or material weaknesses were
identified in the evaluation of our internal controls and therefore no
corrective actions have been taken.

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

                                                                        Page No.

          (1)  Financial Statements:

               Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors           F-1

               Report of KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors                    F-2

               Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2003 and 2002   F-3

               Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the years
               in the three-year period ended March 31, 2003               F-4

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the
               years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2003         F-5

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and
               Other Comprehensive Income for each of the years in
               the three-year period ended March 31, 2003                  F-6

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                  F-7

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules - Applicable schedules
               have been omitted because information is included in
               the footnotes to the Financial Statements.

          (3)  The Exhibits filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated
               herein by reference are set forth in the Exhibit Index
               appearing on page E-1 hereof, which Exhibit Index is
               incorporated herein by this reference.                      E-1

     (b)  We filed a current report on Form 8-K dated February 26, 2003
          reporting our election to terminate our unsecured revolving credit
          facility that we had maintained with a syndicate of banks.

     (c)  See Item 15(a)(3) above.

     (d)  See "Index to Financial Statements" included under Item 8 to this Form
          10-K.


                                   SIGNATURES

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.


                                       MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                       (Registrant)


                                       By: /s/ Steve Sanghi
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Steve Sanghi
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: June 5, 2003

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.

Name and Signature                          Title                      Date
- ------------------                          -----                      ----


/s/ Steve Sanghi                  Director, President and           June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------    Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi


/s/ Albert J. Hugo-Martinez       Director                          June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------
Albert J. Hugo-Martinez


/s/ L.B. Day                      Director                          June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------
L.B. Day


/s/ Matthew W. Chapman            Director                          June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------
Matthew W. Chapman


/s/ Wade F. Meyercord             Director                          June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------
Wade F. Meyercord


/s/ Gordon W. Parnell             Vice President and Chief          June 5, 2003
- ------------------------------    Financial Officer (Principal
Gordon W. Parnell                 Financial and Accounting
                                  Officer)


                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Steve Sanghi, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microchip Technology
     Incorporated;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
     make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
     statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a)   designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
          material information relating to the registrant, including its
          consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
          entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)   presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
     committee of registrant's Board of Directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent functions):

     a)   all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
          controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
          identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
     controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
     controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.

Date: June 5, 2003

                                        /s/ Steve Sanghi
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Steve Sanghi
                                        President and CEO


                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Gordon W. Parnell, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microchip Technology
     Incorporated;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
     statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
     make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
     statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
     this annual report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

     a)   designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
          material information relating to the registrant, including its
          consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
          entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
          is being prepared;

     b)   evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
          this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

     c)   presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
          evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
     committee of registrant's Board of Directors (or persons performing the
     equivalent functions):

     a)   all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
          controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
          identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
          internal controls; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          controls; and

6.   The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
     annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
     controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
     controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
     any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
     weaknesses.

Date: June 5, 2003

                                        /s/ Gordon W. Parnell
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Gordon W. Parnell
                                        Vice President and CFO


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                        Description
- -----------                        -----------

  2.1          Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000 between
               Registrant and Matsushita Semiconductor Corporation of America
               [Incorporated by reference to Current Report on Form 8-K as filed
               with the Securities and Exchange Commission as of July 26, 2000]

  2.1.1        Addendum dated June 20, 2000 to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated
               as of May 23, 2000 between Registrant and Matsushita
               Semiconductor Corporation of America [Incorporated by reference
               to Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission as of July 26, 2000]

  2.1.2        Addendum dated July 10, 2000 to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated
               as of May 23, 2000 between Registrant and Matsushita
               Semiconductor Corporation of America [Incorporated by reference
               to Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission as of July 26, 2000]

  2.1.3        Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of October 26, 2000
               by and among Registrant, Matchbox Acquisition Corp. and TelCom
               Semiconductor, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to Current Report
               on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
               as of October 26, 2000]

  2.1.4        Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of July 17, 2002 between
               Registrant and Fujitsu Microelectronics, Inc. [Incorporated by
               reference to Current Report on Form 8-K Dated July 17, 2002 as
               filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission]

  3.1          Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant [Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2002]

  3.2          Amended and Restated By-Laws of Registrant, as amended through
               August 16, 2002 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
               ended September 30, 2002]

  3.3          Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging ASIC Technical
               Solutions, Inc. into Microchip Technology Incorporated
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K dated for the fiscal year ending March 31,
               2001.]

  3.4          Certificate of Ownership and Merger Merging TelCom Semiconductor,
               Inc. with and into Microchip Technology Incorporated
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K dated for the fiscal year ending March 31,
               2001.]

  4.1          Amended and Restated Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, dated as
               of October 11, 1999, between Registrant and Norwest Bank
               Minnesota, N.A., including the Amended Certificate of
               Designations, the form of Rights Certificate and the Summary of
               Rights, attached as exhibits thereto [Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit No. 1 to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
               8-A as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as of
               October 12, 1999]

                                       E-1

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                        Description
- -----------                        -----------

  10.1         Form of Indemnification Agreement between Registrant and its
               directors and certain of its officers [Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit No. 10.1 to Registration Statement No. 33-57960]

  10.2         Amended and Restated 1989 Stock Option Plan [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. 10.14 to Registration Statement No.
               33-57960]*

  10.3         1993 Stock Option Plan, as Amended Through August 16, 2002
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
               September 30, 2002]*

  10.4         Form of Notice of Grant For 1993 Stock Option Plan, with Exhibit
               A thereto, Form of Stock Option Agreement; and Exhibit B thereto,
               Form of Stock Purchase Agreement [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit No. 10.6 Registration Statement No. 333-872]*

  10.5         2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit No. 10.3 to Registration Statement No. 333-99655]*

  10.6         Form of Enrollment Form For 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to Registration
               Statement No. 333-73506]*

  10.7         Form of Change Form For 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to Registration
               Statement No. 333-73506]*

  10.8         Form of Executive Officer Severance Agreement [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. 10.7 to Registration Statement No.
               333-872]*

  10.9         Development Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997 by and between
               Registrant and the City of Chandler, Arizona [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997]

  10.11        Development Agreement dated as of July 17, 1997 by and between
               Registrant and the City of Tempe, Arizona [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997]

  10.12        Addendum to Development Agreement by and between Registrant and
               the City of Tempe, Arizona, dated May 11, 2000 [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997]

  10.13        1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as Amended Through March 3,
               2003*

  10.14        Form of Notice of Grant For 1997 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan,
               with Exhibit A thereto, Form of Stock Option Agreement
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.17 to Registrant's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31,
               1998]*

                                       E-2

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                        Description
- -----------                        -----------

  10.15        International Employee Stock Purchase Plan as Amended Through
               March 3, 2003 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to
               Registration Statement No. 333-103764]*

  10.16        Form of Enrollment Form For International Employee Stock Purchase
               Plan [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to
               Registration Statement No. 333-103764]*

  10.17        Form of Change Form For International Employee Stock Purchase
               Plan [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to
               Registration Statement No. 333-103764]*

  10.18        Description of Registrant's Management Incentive Compensation
               Plan [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's
               Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30,
               2002]*

  10.19        TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan and forms of
               agreements thereunder [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
               4.1 to Registration Statement No. 333-53876]*

  10.20        TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 1996 Director Option Plan and forms of
               agreements used thereunder [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               No. 4.2 to Registration Statement No. 333-53876]*

  10.21        TelCom Semiconductor, Inc. 2000 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan
               and forms of agreements used thereunder [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration Statement No.
               333-53876]*

  10.22        Strategic Investment Program Contract dated as of August 15, 2002
               by and between Registrant, Multnomah County, Oregon and City of
               Gresham, Oregon [Incorporated by Reference to Current Report on
               Form 8-K dated August 23, 2002 and filed with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission]

  10.23        PowerSmart, Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, Including Forms of
               Incentive Stock Option Agreement and Nonqualified Stock Option
               Agreement [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
               Registration Statement No. 333-96791]*

  10.24        Microchip Technology Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1.1 to Registration
               Statement No. 333-101696]*

  10.25        Amendment dated August 29, 2000 to the Microchip Technology
               Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. 4.1.2 to Registration Statement No.
               333-101696]*

                                       E-3

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.                        Description
- -----------                        -----------

  10.26        Adoption Agreement to the Microchip Technology Incorporated
               Supplemental Retirement Plan [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit No. 4.1.3 to Registration Statement No. 333-101696]*

  10.27        Amendment Dated December 9, 1999 to the Adoption Agreement to the
               Microchip Technology Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1.4 to Registration
               Statement No. 333-101696]*

  10.28        February 3, 2003 Amendment to the Adoption Agreement to the
               Microchip Technology Incorporated Supplemental Retirement Plan *

  18           Letter from Ernst & Young LLP re: Change in Accounting Principle

  21.1         Subsidiaries of Registrant

  23.1         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

  23.2         Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors

  24.1         Power of Attorney re: Microchip Technology Incorporated, the
               Registrant [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 24.1 to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               March 31, 2000]

  99.1         Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
               pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

*Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
be filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 15(c) of this report.

                                       E-4

                           Annual Report on Form 10-K

                   Item 8, Item 15(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

                        ---------------------------------


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    EXHIBITS

                        ---------------------------------

                            YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2003

                        MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CHANDLER, ARIZONA

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                     Page Number
                                                                     -----------

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                        F-1

Report of KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors                                 F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2003 and 2002                F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the years in the
  three-year period ended March 31, 2003                                 F-4

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in
  the three-year period ended March 31, 2003                             F-5

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Other
  Comprehensive Income for each of the years in the three-year
  period ended March 31, 2003                                            F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                               F-7

                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Microchip Technology Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microchip
Technology Incorporated and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2003 and 2002 and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and other
comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Microchip
Technology Incorporated and subsidiaries at March 31, 2003 and 2002 and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then
ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for sales to Asian regional distributors
effective April 1, 2002.

                                        /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Phoenix, Arizona
April 21, 2003

                                       F-1

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Microchip Technology Incorporated:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of income, stockholders'
equity and other comprehensive income, and cash flows of Microchip Technology
Incorporated and Subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2001. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements of Microchip Technology
Incorporated and Subsidiaries referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the results of operations and cash flows for the year ended March 31,
2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Phoenix, Arizona
April 30, 2001

                                       F-2

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                       (in thousands except share amounts)

                                     ASSETS



           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                       F-3

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                     (in thousands except per share amounts)



           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                       F-4

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                       F-5

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                         AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (in thousands)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                       F-6

               MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 MARCH 31, 2003

1.   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF BUSINESS

     Microchip develops and manufactures specialized semiconductor products used
     by its customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
     Microchip's product portfolio comprises the PICmicro(R) field-programmable
     RISC microcontrollers, which serve 8 and 16-bit embedded control
     applications, and a broad spectrum of high-performance linear and
     mixed-signal, power management and thermal management devices. Microchip
     also offers complementary microperipheral products including interface
     devices, Serial EEPROMS, and our application-specific standard products
     (ASSPs). This synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of
     applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the
     automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control
     markets.

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip
     Technology Incorporated and its wholly-owned subsidiaries ("Microchip" or
     the "Company"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
     been eliminated in consolidation.

     On January 16, 2001, the Company merged with TelCom Semiconductor, Inc.
     ("TelCom"). The merger has been accounted for as a pooling-of-interests.
     Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been restated to
     include the operations of TelCom for all periods presented. TelCom had a
     December 31 fiscal year end, and the 2000 operations of TelCom have been
     conformed to a March 31 year end. As a result of TelCom's December 31
     fiscal year end, the consolidated statements of cash flows and
     stockholders' equity for March 31, 2001 include an adjustment of
     $3,679,000, which represents the net income of TelCom for the quarter ended
     March 31, 2000.

     CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

     On March 18, 2003, the Company announced that it would change its revenue
     recognition policy relating to regional Asian distributors from Point of
     Purchase (POP), or when the Company ships product to these distributors, to
     Point of Sale (POS), or when those distributors sell the Company's products
     to their customers. The change in accounting principle is preferable
     because: (i) it better reflects the substance of end customer demand for
     the Company's products, and will better focus the Company on, and allow
     investors to better understand, end user demand trends for its products;
     (ii) it provides uniformity in the revenue recognition policy of the
     Company; and (iii) the new accounting method is consistent with other
     companies in the semiconductor industry and, therefore, provides greater
     comparability in the presentation of financial results among the Company
     and its peers. To implement the change in revenue recognition, the Company
     recorded a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle charge of
     $11.4 million (net of income taxes of $6.6 million) as of April 1, 2002.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company recognizes revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs.
     For sales recorded upon shipment, the Company records reserves for
     estimated customer returns. Distributors generally have broad rights to
     return products and price protection rights, so the Company defers revenue
     recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customer. Upon
     shipment, amounts billed to distributors are included as accounts
     receivable, inventory is relieved, the sale is deferred and the gross
     margin is reflected as a current liability until the product is sold by the
     distributor to its customers.

     PRODUCT WARRANTY

     The Company generally sells products with a limited warranty of product
     quality and a limited indemnification of customers against intellectual
     property infringement claims related to the Company's products. The accrual
     and the related expense for known issues were not significant as of and for
     the fiscal years presented. Due to product testing, the short time between
     product shipment and the detection and correction of product failures, and
     a low historical rate of payments on indemnification claims, the accrual
     based on historical activity and the related expense were not significant
     as of and for the fiscal years presented.

                                       F-7

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and
     development expenses include expenditures for labor, masks, prototype
     wafers, and expenses for development of process technologies, new packages,
     and software to support new products and design environments.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND FORWARD CONTRACTS

     The Company's foreign subsidiaries are considered to be extensions of the
     U.S. company and any translation gains and losses related to these
     subsidiaries are included in other income and expense. As the U.S. Dollar
     is utilized as the functional currency, gains and losses resulting from
     foreign currency transactions (transactions denominated in a currency other
     than the subsidiaries' functional currency) are also included in income.
     Gains and losses associated with currency rate changes on forward contracts
     are recorded currently in income.

     INCOME TAXES

     As part of the process of preparing its consolidated financial statements,
     the Company is required to estimate its income taxes in each of the
     jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves estimating the
     Company's actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary
     differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and
     accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
     liabilities, which are included within the Company's consolidated balance
     sheet. The Company must then assess the likelihood that its deferred tax
     assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent it
     believes that recovery is not likely, it must establish a valuation
     allowance. The Company has not provided for a valuation allowance because
     management currently believes that it is "more likely than not" that its
     deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     All highly liquid investments, including marketable securities purchased
     with a remaining maturity of three months or less, are considered to be
     cash equivalents.

     SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The Company accounts for investments under Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
     and Equity Securities". The Company's investments are classified as
     available-for-sale. The Company defines short-term investments as income
     yielding securities, which can be readily converted to cash. Short-term
     investments consist of state student loan bonds, fixed rate annuity
     contracts, corporate preferred stock and bank certificates of deposits.
     These investments are carried at cost, which approximates fair value.
     Realized gains and losses are included in interest income. The cost of
     securities sold is based upon the specific identification method.

     ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

     The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated
     losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required
     payments, which is included in bad debt expense. The Company determines the
     adequacy of this allowance by regularly reviewing the composition of its
     accounts receivable aging and evaluating individual customer receivables,
     considering such customer's financial condition, credit history and current
     economic conditions. If the financial condition of the Company's customers
     were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make
     payments, additional allowances may be required.

     INVENTORIES

     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in,
     first-out (FIFO) method. The Company writes down its inventory for
     estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the
     difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value
     based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual
     market conditions are less favorable than those projected by the Company,
     additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment
     charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not
     subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that
     increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating reserves for
     obsolescence, the Company generally evaluates estimates of demand over a
     12-month period which is based on the most recent quarter multiplied by
     four and provides reserves for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated
     12-month demand.

     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and
     improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed
     when incurred. The Company's property and equipment accounting policies

                                       F-8

     incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgements relative to the useful
     lives of its property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a
     straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relative assets,
     which range from three to 30 years. The Company evaluates the carrying
     value of its property and equipment when events or changes in circumstances
     indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. Asset
     impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective.

     LITIGATION

     The Company's estimated range of liability related to certain pending
     litigation is based on claims for which management believes a loss is
     probable and it can estimate the amount or range of loss. Because of the
     uncertainties related to both the amount and range of the loss on the
     remaining pending litigation, the Company is unable to make a reasonable
     estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As
     additional information becomes available, the Company will assess the
     potential liability related to its pending litigation and revise its
     estimates. Such revisions in estimates of the potential liability could
     materially impact the Company's results of operations and financial
     position.

     GOODWILL AND OTHER IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     In accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,"
     the Company does not amortize goodwill. In lieu of amortization, the
     Company is required to perform an impairment review of goodwill on an
     annual basis. If the Company determines through the impairment process that
     goodwill has been impaired, the Company will record the impairment charge
     in the statement of income. The Company assesses the impairment of goodwill
     and other identifiable intangibles whenever events or changes in
     circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Some
     factors the Company considers important which could trigger an impairment
     review include the following; (i) significant under performance relative to
     expected historical or projected future operating results; (ii) significant
     changes in the manner of its use of the acquired assets or the strategy for
     its overall business; and (iii) significant negative industry or economic
     trends.

     When the Company determines that the carrying value of goodwill and other
     identifiable intangibles may not be recoverable based upon the existence of
     one or more of the above indicators of impairment, the Company first will
     perform an assessment of the asset's recoverability based on expected
     undiscounted future net cash flow, and if the amount is less than the
     asset's value, the Company will measure any impairment based on a projected
     discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our
     management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current
     business model. The Company amortizes acquired identifiable intangible
     assets over their expected useful lives, which range between 1 and 10
     years. Cumulative amortization on identifiable intangible assets was
     $6,840,000 at March 31, 2003.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     The Company assesses whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets
     are present. If such indicators are present, the Company determines whether
     the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets
     in question is less than their carrying value. If less, the Company
     recognizes an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of
     the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by
     discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets
     determined to be impaired are to be held and used, the Company recognizes
     an impairment loss through a charge to operating results to the extent the
     present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are
     less than the asset's carrying value, which the Company depreciates over
     the remaining estimated useful life of the asset.

     EQUITY DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

     The Company has utilized a net share settled forward contract for the sale
     and repurchase of common stock. Amounts paid and proceeds received from
     this instrument are recorded as components of additional paid-in capital.
     The Company closed out the net shares settled forward contract in its
     entirety on January 15, 2002.

     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     Prior to April 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option plans in
     accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
     Opinion No. 25, "ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES," and related
     interpretations. As such, compensation expense would be recorded for grants
     to employees and directors only if, on the date of grant, the current
     market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price and such
     expense would be recorded on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
     On April 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123, "ACCOUNTING FOR
     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION," ("SFAS No. 123") which permits entities to
     recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all
     stock-based awards on the date of grant. Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 also

                                       F-9

     allows entities to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25
     and provide pro forma net income and pro forma earnings per share
     disclosures for employee stock option grants made in fiscal 1996 and future
     years as if the fair-value-based method defined in SFAS No. 123 had been
     applied. The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB
     Opinion No. 25 and to provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS
     No. 123. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
     earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition
     provisions of SFAS No. 123 to employee stock benefits, including shares
     issued under the stock option plans and under the Company's Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan (amounts in thousands except per share data):

                                                       Year Ended March 31,
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                    2003       2002       2001
                                                  --------   --------   --------
     Net income, as reported                      $ 88,232   $ 94,814   $142,836
        Deduct: Total stock-based employee
        compensation expense determined under
        fairv value methods for all awards, net
        of related tax effects                      36,151     29,407     21,635
                                                  --------   --------   --------
     Pro forma net income                         $ 52,081   $ 65,407   $121,201
                                                  ========   ========   ========
     Per share net income:
        Basic as reported                         $   0.44   $   0.48   $   0.74
        Basic, pro forma                          $   0.26   $   0.33   $   0.63
        Diluted, as reported                      $   0.42   $   0.45   $   0.70
        Diluted, pro forma                        $   0.25   $   0.31   $   0.59
     Weighted average shares used in computation:
        Basic                                      202,483    199,184    193,632
        Diluted                                    210,646    208,907    205,190

     As required, the pro forma disclosures above include options granted since
     April 1, 1996. Consequently, the effect of applying SFAS 123 for providing
     pro forma disclosures may not be representative of the effects on reported
     net income for future years until all options outstanding are included in
     the pro forma disclosures. For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the
     estimated fair value of stock-based compensation plans and other options is
     amortized to expense primarily over the vesting period. See Note 17 for
     further discussion of the Company's stock-based employee compensation.

     USE OF ESTIMATES

     The Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the
     reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure
     of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these consolidated
     financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
     principles. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 (SFAS No. 146),
     ACCOUNTING FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES. SFAS No.
     146 supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force No. 94-3 (EITF 94-3), LIABILITY
     RECOGNITION FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEE TERMINATION BENEFITS AND OTHER COSTS TO
     EXIT AN ACTIVITY (INCLUDING CERTAIN COSTS INCURRED IN A RESTRUCTURING).
     SFAS 146 eliminates the provisions of EITF 94-3 that required a liability
     to be recognized for certain exit or disposal activities at the date an
     entity committed to an exit plan. SFAS No. 146 requires a liability for
     costs associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recognized when
     the liability is incurred. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal
     activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The Company does not
     expect the adoption of SFAS 146 to have a material impact on its results of
     operations or financial position.

     In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED
     COMPENSATION--TRANSITION AND DISCLOSURE. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
     ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION, to provide alternative methods of
     transition to SFAS No. 123's fair value method of accounting for
     stock-based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure
     provisions of SFAS No. 123 and APB 28, INTERIM FINANCIAL REPORTING, to
     require disclosure in the summary of significant accounting policies of the
     effects of an entity's accounting policy with respect to stock-based
     employee compensation on reported net income and earnings per share in
     annual and interim financial statements. While SFAS No. 148 does not amend
     SFAS No. 123 to require companies to account for employee stock options

                                      F-10

     using the fair value method, the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are
     applicable to all companies with stock-based employee compensation,
     regardless of whether they account for that compensation using the fair
     value method of SFAS No. 123 or the intrinsic value method of APB 25. As
     allowed by SFAS No. 123, the Company has elected to continue to utilize the
     accounting method prescribed by APB 25 and has adopted the disclosure
     requirements of SFAS No. 123 as of March 31, 2003.

     In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45),
     "GUARANTOR'S ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR GUARANTEES." FIN 45
     requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a
     liability for the fair value of the obligation it has undertaken in issuing
     the guarantee. The Company will apply FIN 45 to guarantees, if any, issued
     after December 15, 2002. At adoption, FIN 45 did not have a significant
     impact on the Company's consolidated statements of income or financial
     position. FIN 45 also requires guarantors to disclose certain information
     for guarantees, including product warranties, outstanding at March 31,
     2003.

     In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE
     INTEREST ENTITIES, AN INTERPRETATION OF ACCOUNTING RESEARCH BULLETIN NO.
     51." FIN No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities, or VIEs, to be
     consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity
     investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling
     financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity
     to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support
     from other parties. FIN No. 46 is effective for all VIEs created or
     acquired after January 31, 2003. For VIEs created or acquired prior to
     February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN No. 46 must be applied for the
     first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company
     currently has no contractual relationship or other business relationship
     with a variable interest entity and, therefore, the adoption of FIN No. 46
     is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated
     financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the
     current period presentation.

2.   ACQUISITION OF GRESHAM, OREGON WAFER FABRICIATION FACILITY

     On August 23, 2002, the Company completed its acquisition of a
     semiconductor manufacturing complex in Gresham, Oregon. The Company
     acquired the facility for $183.5 million in cash plus direct acquisition
     costs of approximately $1.2 million. The facility is situated on an
     approximately 140-acre campus east of Portland and comprises approximately
     826,500 square feet. The facility came equipped with approximately 350
     process tools and 170 support tools. The Company plans to initially produce
     8-inch wafers on its 0.5 micron and 0.35 micron process technologies at the
     Gresham facility. The facility also houses offices, meeting rooms and
     support functions. The facility is currently expected to be placed into
     production in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, at which time depreciation
     will commence.

3.   ACQUISITION OF POWERSMART, INC.

     On June 5, 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc.
     in which the Company acquired all of PowerSmart's outstanding capital stock
     and assumed certain stock options for consideration of $54.0 million in
     cash plus other acquisition related costs of $1.2 million. The purchase
     price was allocated among PowerSmart's tangible and intangible assets,
     in-process research and development and goodwill based on an independent
     valuation analysis performed by a firm other than the Company's independent
     auditors.

     The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination in
     accordance with SFAS No. 141, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, and accordingly, the
     results of PowerSmart's operations are included in the Company's
     consolidated results from the date of the acquisition. The acquisition was
     not considered significant under the rules and regulations of the SEC (Rule
     3-05 of Regulation S-X). Proforma financial information is not presented
     since the historical operating results of PowerSmart were not significant
     when compared to those of the Company.

                                      F-11

     The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and
     the liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition (amounts in
     thousands):

     Current assets                                               $  3,315
     Property and equipment                                            462
     Other assets                                                      485
     In-process research and development                             9,300
     Core technology                                                 5,200
     Other intangible assets                                           400
     Deferred tax assets, net                                        6,699
     Goodwill                                                       32,346
                                                                  --------
          Total assets acquired                                     58,207
     Current liabilities                                            (1,988)
     Other liabilities                                              (1,000)
                                                                  --------
          Total liabilities assumed                                 (2,988)
                                                                  --------
          Net assets acquired                                     $ 55,219
                                                                  ========

     The amount paid in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets has
     been allocated to separately identifiable intangible assets based upon an
     independent valuation analysis. An allocation of $9.3 million of the
     purchase price was assigned to in-process research and development and was
     written off at the date of the acquisition in accordance with FASB
     Interpretation No. 4, "Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2, BUSINESS
     COMBINATIONS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE PURCHASE METHOD."

     An allocation of approximately $32.3 million of the purchase price was made
     to goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142, GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE
     ASSETS. Goodwill related to the PowerSmart acquisition will not be
     amortized but will be subject to periodic impairment tests. None of the
     goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

     An allocation of $5.6 million of the purchase price was made to core
     technology and other identifiable intangible assets and will be amortized
     over their estimated useful lives of seven years.

     The Company records acquisition-related purchase consideration as unearned
     stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 44,
     "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation." During
     the year ended March 31, 2003, the Company recorded unearned stock-based
     compensation of $130,000. The unearned stock-based compensation includes
     the intrinsic value of stock options assumed in connection with the
     acquisition of PowerSmart that is earned as the employees provide future
     services. The compensation is being recognized over the period earned, and
     the expense is included in the amortization of acquisition-related
     intangibles and costs. Amortization of unearned stock compensation was
     $59,000 in fiscal 2003.

4.   SPECIAL CHARGES

                                                    Year Ended March 31,
                                           -------------------------------------
                                              2003         2002         2001
                                           -----------   ---------   -----------
     Fab 3 impairment charge               $41,500,000   $      --   $        --
     In-process research and development     9,300,000          --            --
     Restructuring charges                          --          --     6,409,000
     TelCom merger charges                          --          --    10,949,000
                                           -----------   ---------   -----------

     Totals                                $50,800,000   $      --   $17,358,000
                                           ===========   =========   ===========

                                      F-12

     FISCAL 2003

     FAB 3 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE

     In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF
     LONG-LIVED ASSETS, which is applicable to financial statements for fiscal
     years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS 144 provides a single
     accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of and significantly
     changes the criteria that must be met to classify an asset as
     held-for-sale. Classification as held-for-sale is an important distinction
     since such assets are not depreciated and are stated at the lower of book
     value or fair value less cost to sell. SFAS 144 was effective for the
     Company as of April 1, 2002. In accordance with SFAS 144, the Company
     recorded a $41.5 million asset impairment charge during the quarter ended
     September 30, 2002, as described below.

     The Company acquired a semiconductor manufacturing facility in Puyallup,
     Washington, referred to as Fab 3, in July 2000. The original purchase
     consisted of semiconductor manufacturing facilities and real property. It
     was the Company's intention to bring Fab 3 to productive readiness and
     commence volume production of 8-inch wafers using its 0.7 and 0.5 micron
     process technologies by August 2001. The Company delayed its intended
     production start up at Fab 3 due to deteriorating business conditions in
     the semiconductor industry during fiscal 2002. Fab 3 has never been brought
     to productive readiness.

     As is described in Note 2, in August 2002 the Company acquired a
     semiconductor manufacturing facility in Gresham, Oregon, referred to as Fab
     4. After the acquisition of Fab 4 was completed, the Company undertook an
     analysis of the potential production capacity at Fab 4. The results of the
     production capacity analysis led the Company to determine that Fab 3's
     capacity would not be needed in the foreseeable future and during the
     second quarter the Company committed to a plan to sell Fab 3. The Company
     has retained a third-party broker to market Fab 3 on its behalf and is
     actively seeking potential buyers. Accordingly, Fab 3 was classified as an
     asset held-for-sale as of September 30, 2002 and maintained that
     classification at March 31, 2003.

     The Company retained an independent third-party firm, other than its
     independent auditors, to complete a fair value appraisal of Fab 3. The
     independent third party used the market approach and considered sales of
     comparable properties in determining the fair value of Fab 3. The
     comparable sales included eight properties, including the Company's
     purchases of Fab 3 in July 2000 and Fab 4 in August 2002. Based on the
     results of this appraisal, the Company recorded an asset impairment charge
     on Fab 3 of $36.9 million, including estimated costs to sell. The remaining
     value of $60.2 million was classified as an asset held-for-sale and is
     included as a component of other current assets at March 31, 2003.

     During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, the Company also recorded an
     asset impairment charge of $4.6 million to write-down certain excess
     manufacturing equipment located at Fab 3 to its net realizable value of
     $212,000. This manufacturing equipment became "excess" as a result of
     duplicate equipment acquired in the purchase of Fab 4. The net realizable
     value for the excess manufacturing equipment was determined based on
     management estimates. Substantially all of the other manufacturing
     equipment located at Fab 3 has been transferred to and will be used in the
     Company's other wafer fabrication facilities located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab
     2) and Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4).

     If actual market conditions are less favorable than those estimated in the
     appraisal, or if future market conditions deteriorate, the net proceeds
     from the assets held-for-sale could be less than the amount estimated in
     the financial statements and additional charges could result prior to or at
     the time of the sale of Fab 3.

     POWERSMART IN-PROCESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CHARGE

     As described in Note 3, on June 5, 2002, the Company completed the
     acquisition of PowerSmart, Inc. in which Microchip acquired all of
     PowerSmart's outstanding capital stock and assumed certain stock options
     for consideration of $54.0 million in cash plus other acquisition related
     costs of $1.2 million. The purchase price was allocated among PowerSmart's
     tangible and intangible assets, in-process research and development and
     goodwill based on an independent valuation analysis performed by a firm
     other than the Company's independent auditors.

                                      F-13

     An allocation of $9.3 million of the purchase price was assigned to
     in-process research and development and was written off at the date of the
     acquisition in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, "Applicability of
     FASB Statement No. 2, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE PURCHASE
     METHOD."

     FISCAL 2002

     There were no special charges in fiscal 2002.

     FISCAL 2001

     During the March 2001 quarter, the Company implemented capacity and cost
     reduction actions related to adverse business conditions in the
     semiconductor industry. The Company reduced cumulative wafer fab capacity
     at its manufacturing locations in Chandler and Tempe, Arizona by
     approximately 24%, compared to its December 31, 2000 levels. The Company
     also decided to close its Hong Kong test facility, acquired as part of the
     TelCom transaction, and migrate these test requirements to its test
     facility located in Thailand. The capacity reduction at the Company's wafer
     fabs was completed by the end of the March 2001 quarter, and the closure of
     the Hong Kong facility was completed by June 30, 2001. These actions
     resulted in a restructuring charge of $6,409,000 in the March 2001 quarter.

     Included in the restructuring charges resulting from these actions was
     $2,149,000 related to employee severance costs and $305,000 related to
     other restructuring costs. The balance of the charges relating to
     restructuring costs was non-cash items for $3,955,000, related to equipment
     that was written off.

     On January 16, 2001, the Company completed its merger with TelCom. Under
     the terms of the merger agreement, each share of TelCom common stock was
     exchanged for 0.795 of a share of Microchip common stock. The Company
     issued 14,702,184 shares of its common stock and assumed all outstanding
     TelCom stock options. The merger was structured as a tax-free
     reorganization and is being accounted for as a pooling-of-interests.

     During the March 2001 quarter, the Company recognized a special charge of
     $10,949,000 for costs associated with the TelCom transaction, including:
     $7,306,000 associated with investment banking fees; $1,607,000 associated
     with legal and accounting fees; $912,000 related to severance costs; and
     $1,124,000 related to other merger costs.

     All reserves relating to the March 31, 2001 fiscal year special charges
     have been fully utilized.

5.   SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The Company's short-term investments are intended to establish a
     high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs,
     avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield in
     relationship to the Company's investment guidelines and market conditions.
     These investments are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. The
     following is a summary of available-for-sale securities (amounts in
     thousands):

                                                           March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     State student loan bonds                       $  109,400   $  100,050
     Corporate preferred stock                          30,375           --
     Bank certificates of deposit                       15,500           --
     Fixed rate annuity contracts                        7,327        7,000
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $  162,602   $  107,050
                                                    ==========   ==========

     During the years ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company did not have
     any gross realized gains or losses on sales of available-for-sale
     securities.

     The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the available-for-sale
     securities at March 31, 2003, by maturity, are shown below (amounts in
     thousands). Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities
     because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay
     obligations without prepayment penalties, and the Company views its
     available-for-sale securities as available for current operations. At March
     31, 2003 there was no difference in the cost and estimated fair value of
     the Company's available-for-sale securities given that the longer-term
     instruments have interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to
     current market rates.

                                      F-14

                                                                 Estimated
                                                       Cost      Fair Value
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Available-for-sale
       Due in one year or less                      $   53,202   $   53,202
       Due after one year and through five years            --           --
       Due after five years through ten years               --           --
       Due after ten years                             109,400      109,400
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $  162,602   $  162,602
                                                    ==========   ==========

6.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     Accounts receivable consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                           March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Trade accounts receivable                      $   98,418   $   84,336
     Other                                                 737          348
                                                    ----------   ----------
                                                        99,155       84,684

     Less allowance for doubtful accounts                3,768        3,937
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $   95,387   $   80,747
                                                    ==========   ==========

7.   INVENTORIES

     The components of inventories are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                          March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Raw materials                                  $    9,571   $    7,187
     Work in process                                    60,001       61,724
     Finished goods                                     32,772       19,704
                                                    ----------   ----------
                                                    $  102,344   $   88,615
                                                    ==========   ==========

     Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and
     charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later
     suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.

8.   OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

     Other current assets consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                           March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Assets held for sale                           $   60,460   $       --
     Income tax receivable                               6,862        6,862
     Other current assets                                4,577        2,171
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $   71,899   $    9,033
                                                    ==========   ==========

                                      F-15

9.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment consists of the following (amounts in
     thousands):

                                                          March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Land                                           $   33,488   $   23,685
     Building and building improvements                196,800      191,186
     Machinery and equipment                           767,322      722,049
     Projects in process                               297,751      211,098
                                                    ----------   ----------
                                                     1,295,361    1,148,018

     Less accumulated depreciation
     and amortization                                  527,428      432,058
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $  767,933   $  715,960
                                                    ==========   ==========

     Depreciation and amortization expense attributed to property, plant and
     equipment was $109,572,000, $108,451,000 and $101,990,000 for the years
     ending March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

10.  INVESTMENT IN SAI

     On October 7, 1999, TelCom entered into a Common Stock Agreement and a
     Stockholder Purchase Agreement with Silicon Aquarius Incorporated (SAI). In
     accordance with the Common Stock Agreement, TelCom purchased 1.3 million
     shares of common stock of SAI, representing an 18.67% ownership interest in
     SAI, for $3.0 million. TelCom accounted for this investment on the equity
     method with a 90-day lag in recording its share of the operating results
     for SAI. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, TelCom recorded its
     equity in net loss of SAI of $626,000 and wrote off its remaining
     investment in SAI of $1,564,000 because this investment was deemed to have
     no value.

11.  ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Accrued liabilities consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

                                                           March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     Income taxes                                   $   79,733   $   62,745
     Other accrued expenses                             30,266       25,761
                                                    ----------   ----------

                                                    $  109,999   $   88,506
                                                    ==========   ==========

                                      F-16

12.  INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes is as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                      Year Ended March 31,
                                               --------------------------------
                                                 2003        2002        2001
                                               --------    --------    --------
     Current expense:
           Federal                             $ 32,602    $ 44,639    $ 34,127
           State                                  2,835       3,882       3,792
           Foreign                               10,321      12,162      23,446
                                               --------    --------    --------

     Total current                               45,758      60,683      61,365
                                               --------    --------    --------

     Deferred expense (benefit):
           Federal                              (19,892)    (25,494)     (6,836)
           State                                 (1,730)     (2,217)       (760)
           Foreign                               (2,124)       (595)       (406)
                                               --------    --------    --------

     Total deferred                             (23,746)    (28,306)     (8,002)
                                               --------    --------    --------

     Less: deferred tax benefit allocated to
     cumulative effect of accounting method       6,645          --          --
                                               --------    --------    --------

                                               $ 28,657    $ 32,377    $ 53,363
                                               ========    ========    ========

     The tax benefit associated with the exercise of employee stock options
     reduced taxes currently payable by $17,951,000, $18,752,000 and $15,936,000
     for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These
     amounts were credited to additional paid-in capital in each of the three
     fiscal years.

     The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying
     the statutory federal tax rate to income before income taxes. The sources
     and tax effects of the differences in the total income tax provision for
     income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle
     are as follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                Year Ended March 31,
                                          --------------------------------
                                            2003        2002        2001
                                          --------    --------    --------
     Computed expected provision          $ 44,916    $ 44,517    $ 68,670

     State income taxes, net
     of federal benefits                       554       1,068       1,971

     Foreign export sales benefit           (2,278)     (1,961)     (3,230)

     Research and development
     tax credits                            (2,959)     (3,481)         --

     Foreign income taxed at
     lower than the federal rate           (11,576)     (7,766)    (13,148)

     Change in valuation allowance              --          --        (900)
                                          --------    --------    --------

                                          $ 28,657    $ 32,377    $ 53,363
                                          ========    ========    ========

     Pretax income from foreign operations was $108,198,000, $92,216,000 and
     $133,208,000 for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be
     permanently invested outside the United States, and on which no deferred
     taxes have been provided, amounted to approximately $483,543,000 at March
     31, 2003. Should the Company elect in the future to repatriate a portion of
     the foreign earnings so invested, the Company would incur income tax

                                      F-17

     expense on such repatriation, net of any available foreign tax credits.
     This would result in additional income tax expense beyond the computed
     expected provision in such periods.

     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
     portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as
     follows (amounts in thousands):

                                                               March 31,
                                                          --------------------
                                                            2003        2002
                                                          --------    --------
     Deferred tax assets:

           Intercompany profit in inventory               $ 12,842    $ 11,137
           Deferred income on shipments to distributors     25,628      14,566
           Inventory reserves                                2,137       1,083
           Net operating loss carryforward                  24,033      28,646
           Tax credit carryforwards                         26,134      21,023
           Fab 3 impairment                                 16,600          --
           Accrued expenses and other                        9,107       7,525
                                                          --------    --------
           Gross deferred tax assets                       116,481      83,980
                                                          --------    --------

     Deferred tax liabilities:

           Property, plant and equipment, principally
               due to differences in depreciation          (31,259)    (30,808)
           Other                                            (1,929)       (324)
                                                          --------    --------
           Gross deferred tax liability                    (33,188)    (31,132)
                                                          --------    --------
           Net deferred tax asset                         $ 83,293    $ 52,848
                                                          ========    ========

     Management believes that the results of future operations will generate
     sufficient taxable income such that it is "more likely than not" that
     deferred tax assets will be realized.

     On June 5, 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of
     PowerSmart Inc. in a taxable stock acquisition. As a result of the
     PowerSmart acquisition, $6,699,000 of net deferred tax assets were acquired
     consisting of a deferred tax asset of $8,771,000 relating primarily to net
     operating loss carryforwards and a deferred tax liability of $2,072,000
     relating to intangible assets acquired.

     At March 31, 2003, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for
     federal income tax purposes of approximately $64,954,000, which begin to
     expire in varying amounts in the years 2018 through 2022. The net operating
     loss carryforward includes approximately $22,945,000 attributable to the
     acquisition of PowerSmart. An analysis of the annual limitation on the
     utilization of the PowerSmart net operating losses was performed in
     accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section 382. It was determined that
     Section 382 will not limit the use of the PowerSmart net operating losses
     in full over the carryover period.

     At March 31, 2003, the Company had recorded credit carryforwards of
     approximately $10,671,000 for foreign tax credits, $13,874,000 for research
     and development credits, and $1,589,000 for alternative minimum tax
     credits. The foreign tax credits begin to expire in varying amounts in the
     years ending March 31, 2004 through March 31, 2007, the research and
     development credits begin to expire in varying amounts in the years ending
     March 31, 2015 through March 31, 2018 and the alternative minimum tax
     credits have no expiration date.

     The Company's Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from
     numerous tax holidays. The aggregate dollar benefits derived from these tax
     holidays approximated $31,409,000, $30,686,000 and $40,812,000 for the
     years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The benefit the
     tax holiday had on net income per share approximated $0.15, $0.15 and $0.20
     for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     The Company believes that it maintains adequate tax reserves to offset the
     potential liabilities that may arise upon audit. If such amounts ultimately
     prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would
     result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no
     longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than
     the ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would result. The

                                      F-18

     Company has included in income taxes payable reserves for potential losses.
     Should such losses occur, they would result in the reduction of deferred
     tax assets or payments of amounts accrued.

13.  CONTINGENCIES

     In the ordinary course of its business, the Company is involved in a
     limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could
     incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. Although the outcome
     of these actions is not presently determinable, the Company believes that
     the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm its business.
     Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and the
     Company is, and from time to time has been, subject to such litigation. In
     the Company's opinion, based on consultation with legal counsel, as of
     March 31, 2003, the effect of such matters will not have a material adverse
     effect on the Company's financial position.

14.  LONG-TERM DEBT

     On February 25, 2003, the Company elected to terminate its unsecured
     revolving credit facility that it had maintained with a syndicate of banks
     since May 2000. The $100 million credit facility was due to expire on May
     31, 2003. There were no borrowings against the credit facility on February
     25, 2003. The Company had not made any borrowings against the credit
     facility during either of the years ending March 31, 2003 or March 31,
     2002.

     The Company has an unsecured line of credit with various financial
     institutions in Asia for up to $20 million (U.S. Dollar equivalent). These
     borrowings are predominantly denominated in U.S. Dollars, bearing interest
     at the Singapore Interbank Offering Rate (SIBOR) of 1.31% at March 31, 2003
     plus 0.58% (average) and expiring on various dates through February 2004.
     There were no borrowings against this line of credit as of March 31, 2003,
     but an allocation of $865,000 of the available line was made, relating to
     import guarantees associated with the Company's business in Thailand. There
     are no covenants associated with the foreign line of credit.

15.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN. Effective October 11, 1999, the Company adopted an
     Amended and Restated Preferred Shares Rights Agreement (the "Amended Rights
     Agreement"). The Amended Rights Agreement amends and restates the Preferred
     Share Rights Agreement adopted by the Company as of February 13, 1995 (the
     "Prior Rights Agreement"). Under the Prior Rights Agreement, on February
     13, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of one right
     (a "Right") to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of the Company's
     Series A Participating Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") for each
     outstanding share of common stock, $.001 par value, of the Company. The
     dividend was payable on February 24, 1995 to stockholders of record as of
     the close of business on that date.

     The Amended Rights Agreement supersedes the Prior Rights Agreement as
     originally executed. Under the Amended Rights Agreement, each Right enables
     the holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of
     Series A Preferred at a purchase price of seventy four dollars and seven
     cents ($74.07) (the "Purchase Price"), subject to adjustment. The rights
     become exercisable and transferable upon the occurrence of certain events.

     STOCK REPURCHASE ACTIVITY. On August 7, 2002, the Company's Board of
     Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to 2,500,000 shares of
     its common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated
     transactions. During the twelve months ended March 31, 2003, the Company
     purchased 1,264,700 shares of its common stock for $27,062,782. As of March
     31, 2003, all but 311,855 of the purchased shares had been reissued to fund
     stock option exercises and purchases under the Company's employee stock
     purchase plan.

     The Company maintained a net shares settled forward contract for the years
     ended March 31, 2002 and 2001. Under the original terms of this contract,
     the Company could deliver or receive shares of common stock or cash based
     on the fair market value of its common stock on periodic settlement dates.
     The contract was subsequently amended in fiscal 2001 to only allow the
     Company to receive cash but to deliver shares or cash based on the fair
     market value of its common stock on periodic settlement dates. The table
     below contains a summary of the share and cash activity under this contract
     (amounts in thousands):

                                      F-19

                                                    Year Ended March 31,
                                                  ------------------------
                                                     2002          2001
                                                  ----------    ----------
     Shares received                                      --           277
     Shares delivered                                   (573)         (996)
                                                  ----------    ----------
     Net shares (delivered)                             (573)         (719)
                                                  ==========    ==========

     Cash received                                $   14,084    $   17,190
     Cash delivered                                       --          (128)
                                                  ----------    ----------
     Net cash received                            $   14,084    $   17,062
                                                  ==========    ==========

     During the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company made a delivery
     of 572,645 and 995,511 shares, respectively, in connection with the net
     shares settled forward contract. During the years ended March 31, 2001 the
     Company received 276,890 shares in conjunction with the net share settled
     forward contract. No shares were received in respect of the net shares
     settled forward contract for the year ended March 31, 2002. During the year
     ended March 31, 2002, the Company received $14,083,638 in connection with
     an early termination covering 1,650,000 of the shares outstanding in the
     net shares settled forward contract. No such early terminations occurred in
     the year ending March 31, 2001. During the year ended March 31, 2001, the
     Company also received $17,190,026 in conjunction with the quarterly net
     share settled forward contact. During the year ended March 31, 2001, the
     Company delivered $128,449 in conjunction with the net shares settled
     forward contract. All amounts received or delivered under the net shares
     settled forward contract have been recorded to additional paid-in-capital.
     The Company closed out the net shares settled forward contract in its
     entirety on January 15, 2002 and made a cash payment of $27,776,610 to
     purchase the remaining 1,610,606 shares of its common stock outstanding
     under the contract. These shares were recorded as treasury shares.

16.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company maintains a contributory profit-sharing plan for its domestic
     employees meeting certain eligibility and service requirements. The plan
     qualifies under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
     amended, and allowed employees to contribute up to 20% of their base salary
     up through March 31, 2002, subject to maximum annual limitations prescribed
     by the Internal Revenue Service. The plan was amended as of April 1, 2002
     to allow employees to contribute up to 60% of their base salary, subject to
     maximum annual limitations prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service. The
     Company shall make a matching contribution of up to 25% of the first 4% of
     the participant's eligible compensation and may award up to an additional
     25% under the discretionary match. All matches are provided on a quarterly
     basis and require the participant to be an active employee at the end of
     each quarter. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the
     Company contributions to the plan totaled $1,030,000, $677,000 and
     $1,111,000, respectively.

     The Company's 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2001 Purchase Plan")
     became effective on March 1, 2002. The Board of Directors approved the 2001
     Purchase Plan in May 2001 and the stockholders approved it in August 2001.
     Under the 2001 Purchase Plan, eligible employees of the Company may
     purchase shares of common stock at semi-annual intervals through periodic
     payroll deductions. The purchase price in general will be 85% of the lower
     of the fair market value of the common stock on the first day of any
     semi-annual offering period or 85% of the fair market value on the
     semi-annual purchase date. Depending upon a participant's entry date into
     the 2001 Purchase Plan, purchase periods under the 2001 Purchase Plan
     consist of overlapping periods of either 24, 18, 12 or 6 months in
     duration. 2,450,000 shares of common stock have been previously reserved
     for issuance under the 2001 Purchase Plan. In May 2003, the Board of
     Directors, subject to stockholder approval, reserved an additional 975,000
     shares of common stock for issuance under the 2001 Purchase Plan.

     Prior to March 1, 2002, the Company maintained an employee stock purchase
     plan that allowed eligible employees of the Company to purchase shares of
     common stock at semi-annual intervals through periodic payroll deductions.
     The purchase price per share, in general, was 85% of the lower of the fair
     market value of the common stock on the participant's entry date into the
     offering period or 85% of the fair market value on the semi-annual purchase
     date. On May 1, 2001, the Board of Directors approved the termination of
     this employee stock purchase plan immediately following the close of the
     February 2002 purchase period. During the term of this employee stock
     purchase plan, 12,957,750 shares of common stock were reserved for
     issuance, and through the February 2002 purchase period, 12,717,729 shares
     had been issued under this employee stock purchase plan.

                                      F-20

     During fiscal 1995, a purchase plan was adopted for employees in non-U.S.
     locations. Such plan allows for the purchase price per share to be 100% of
     the lower of the fair market value of the common stock on the beginning or
     end of the semi-annual purchase plan period. Since the inception of this
     purchase plan, 248,593 shares of common stock have been reserved for
     issuance and 204,063 shares have been issued under this purchase plan.

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted a non-qualified deferred
     compensation arrangement. This plan is unfunded and is maintained primarily
     for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of
     highly compensated employees as defined in ERISA Sections 201, 301 and 401.
     There are no Company matching contributions made under this plan.

     Employees in certain foreign locations are covered by statutory pension
     plans, none of which are defined benefit plans. Contributions are accrued
     based on an actuarially determined percentage of compensation and are
     funded in amounts sufficient to meet statutory requirements. Pension
     expense amounted to $261,000, $93,000 and $175,000 for the years ended
     March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     The Company has a management incentive compensation plan which provides for
     bonus payments, based on a percentage of base salary, from an incentive
     pool created from operating profits of the Company, at the discretion of
     the Board of Directors. The Company did not make any payments under its
     management incentive compensation plan during fiscal 2002 or fiscal 2003.
     During the year ended March 31, 2001, $6,706,000 was charged against
     operations for this plan.

     The Company also has a plan that, at the discretion of the Board of
     Directors, provides a cash bonus to all employees of the Company based on
     the operating profits of the Company. During the years ended March 31,
     2003, 2002 and 2001, $1,790,000, $970,000 and $2,899,000, respectively,
     were charged against operations for this plan.

     TelCom had various bonus plans in place for their employees for the periods
     covered by this report. During the year ended March 31, 2001, $1,674,000
     was charged against operations for these plans. The Company terminated
     TelCom's bonus plans and all of TelCom's former employees that are now
     employed by the Company are now eligible to participate in the Company's
     existing plans.

17.  STOCK OPTION PLANS

     Under the Company's stock option plans (the "Plans"), officers, key
     employees, non-employee directors and consultants may be granted
     non-statutory stock options to purchase shares of common stock at a price
     not less than 100% of the fair value of the option shares on the grant
     date. Options granted under the Plans vest over the period determined by
     the Board of Directors at the date of grant, at periods ranging from one
     year to four years. The maximum term of options granted under the Plans is
     10 years. The Company did not make any stock option grants to consultants
     during the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. At March 31, 2003,
     there were 20,336,658 shares available for grant under the Plans. The per
     share weighted average fair value of stock options granted under the Plans
     for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $15.00, $10.28 and
     $15.15, respectively, based on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
     option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

                                                Year Ended March 31,
                                         ----------------------------------
                                           2003         2002         2001
                                         --------     --------     --------
     Expected life (years)                 5.00         4.65         4.35
     Risk-free interest rate               2.80%        4.50%        5.50%
     Volatility                              71%          71%          72%
     Dividend yield                        0.48%           0%           0%

                                      F-21

     Under the Plans, 89,944,881 shares of common stock had been reserved for
     issuance since the inception of the Plans.

     The stock option activity is as follows:

                                                   Options Outstanding
                                              -----------------------------
                                                           Weighted Average
                                                Shares      Exercise Price
                                              ----------    --------------

     Outstanding at March 31, 2000            24,566,373      $     6.93

     Granted                                   5,788,059           24.02
     Exercised                                (2,707,982)           4.62
     Canceled                                 (1,930,680)          15.23
     TelCom adjustment                          (359,737)             --
                                              ----------

     Outstanding at March 31, 2001            25,356,033           10.45

     Granted                                   4,706,454           16.93
     Exercised                                (4,083,182)           5.41
     Canceled                                 (1,312,494)          17.88
                                              ----------

     Outstanding at March 31, 2002            24,666,811           12.12

     Granted                                   5,126,899           25.76
     Exercised                                (3,564,895)           6.47
     Canceled                                   (993,899)          18.11
                                              ----------

     Outstanding at March 31, 2003            25,234,916      $    15.45
                                              ==========

     The TelCom adjustment of 359,737 shares relates to TelCom's net stock
     option activity for the three months ended March 31, 2000, which has been
     included to conform to the Company's March 31 fiscal year end.

     The following table summarizes information about the stock options
     outstanding at March 31, 2003:



     At March 31, 2003 and 2002, the number of options exercisable was
     12,093,823 and 10,529,779, respectively, and the weighted-average exercise
     price of those options was $10.48 and $7.69, respectively.

                                      F-22

     The Company received a tax benefit of $17,951,000, $18,752,000 and
     $15,936,000 for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively, from the exercise of non-qualified stock options and the
     disposition of stock acquired with incentive stock options or through the
     Company's employee stock purchase plan. For financial reporting purposes,
     the tax effect of this deduction is accounted for as a credit to additional
     paid-in capital rather than as a reduction of income tax expense.

18.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

     The Company leases office space, transportation and other equipment under
     capital and operating leases, which expire at various dates through March
     31, 2009. The future minimum lease commitments under these leases are
     payable as follows (amounts in thousands):

                           Year Ending               Operating
                            March 31,                  Leases
                            ---------                ---------

                               2004                      3,014
                               2005                      2,221
                               2006                      1,649
                               2007                        875
                               2008                        316
                            Thereafter                      30
                                                     ---------
                      Total minimum payments         $   8,105
                                                     =========

     Rental expense under operating leases totaled $5,746,000, $4,600,000 and
     $4,472,000 for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

19.  GAIN ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS

     During the quarter ended March 31, 1999, TelCom recognized a gain of
     $5,000,000 on the sale of its investment in IC WORKS. This gain is reported
     in the Company's March 31, 2000 financial statements because TelCom's 1999
     calendar year results are combined with Microchip's March 31, 2000 fiscal
     year results for purposes of this report. IC WORKS was purchased by Cypress
     Semiconductor, Inc., a publicly held company and, as part of the purchase
     agreement between IC WORKS and Cypress Semiconductor, TelCom's preferred
     shares, with a book value of $1,500,000, were exchanged for common stock of
     Cypress Semiconductor with a fair market value of $6,500,000. During the
     quarter ended June 30, 1999, the Company sold all of the shares it held,
     except shares held in escrow, for $6,700,000 and recognized an additional
     gain on the sale of $819,000 representing the increase in the fair value
     between the date the shares were received and the date the shares were
     sold. The value of the shares held in escrow at December 31, 1999 was
     $2,286,000 and was classified as short-term investments. During TelCom's
     year ended December 31, 2000, it sold its remaining shares of Cypress
     Semiconductor and recognized an additional gain of $3,091,000, representing
     the increase in the fair value between the date the shares were received
     and the date they were sold. $1,427,000 of the $3,091,000 gain occurred
     during the Company's fiscal year ending March 31, 2001.

20.  GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company operates in one operating segment and engages primarily in the
     design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products.
     The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
     manufacturers (OEMs) in a broad range of market segments, performs on-going
     credit evaluations of its customers and generally requires no collateral.
     The Company's operations outside the United States consist of product
     assembly and final test facilities in Thailand, sales and support centers
     and design centers in certain foreign countries. Domestic operations are
     responsible for the design, development and wafer fabrication of all
     products, as well as the coordination of production planning and shipping
     to meet worldwide customer commitments. The Thailand test facility is
     reimbursed in relation to value added with respect to assembly and test
     operations and other functions performed, and certain foreign sales offices
     receive a commission on export sales within their territory. Accordingly,
     for financial statement purposes, it is not meaningful to segregate sales
     or operating profits for the test and foreign sales office operations.
     Identifiable assets by geographic area are as follows (amounts in
     thousands):

                                      F-23

                                                           March 31,
                                                    -----------------------
                                                       2003         2002
                                                    ----------   ----------
     United States                                  $1,138,025   $  946,925
     Thailand                                          182,217      163,937
     Taiwan                                                 --       51,594
     Hong Kong                                              --          593
     Various                                           108,033      112,551
                                                    ----------   ----------

           Total Assets                             $1,428,275   $1,275,600
                                                    ==========   ==========

     Sales to unaffiliated customers located outside the United States,
     primarily in Asia and Europe, aggregated approximately 71%, 69% and 68% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Sales to customers in Europe represented 27%, 31% and 31% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Sales to customers in Asia represented 39%, 35% and 36% of
     consolidated net sales for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Sales into China represented 13% of consolidated net sales
     for the year ended March 31, 2003. Sales into any other individual foreign
     country did not exceed 10% of the Company's net sales.

21.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amount of cash equivalents approximates fair value because
     their maturity is less than three months. The carrying amount of short-term
     investments approximates fair value because the longer-term instruments
     have interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to current market
     rates. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and
     accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity
     of the amounts. The fair value of capital lease obligations, long-term debt
     and lines of credit approximate their carrying value as they are estimated
     by discounting the future cash flows at rates currently offered to the
     Company for similar debt instruments.

     The Company has entered into financial instruments with off-balance-sheet
     risk in the normal course of business to reduce its exposure to
     fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These financial instruments include
     standby letters of credit and foreign currency forward contracts. When
     engaging in forward contracts, risks arise from the possible inability of
     counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movements in
     securities values, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. At March 31,
     2003 and 2002, the Company held contracts with notional amounts totaling
     $2,707,000 and $1,949,000, respectively, which were entered into and hedged
     the Company's foreign currency risk. The value of the contracts is based on
     quoted market prices. The contracts matured May 2003 and May 2002,
     respectively. Unrealized gains and losses as of the balance sheet dates and
     realized gains and losses for the years ending March 31, 2003, 2002 and
     2001 were not material.

                                      F-24

22.  NET INCOME PER SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
     income per share (in thousands except per share amounts):

                                                 Year Ended March 31,
                                           --------------------------------
                                             2003        2002        2001
                                           --------    --------    --------
     Net income                            $ 88,232    $ 94,814    $142,836
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Weighted average common
     shares outstanding                     202,483     199,184     193,632

     Dilutive effect of stock options         8,163       9,723      11,558
                                           --------    --------    --------

     Weighted average common and
     common equivalent shares
     outstanding                            210,646     208,907     205,190
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Basic net income per share            $   0.44    $   0.48    $   0.74
                                           ========    ========    ========
     Diluted net income per share          $   0.42    $   0.45    $   0.70
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Weighted average shares exclude the effect of antidilutive options. As of
     March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the number of options that were antidilutive
     were 4,282,029, 2,943,083 and 2,612,970, respectively.

     The Company had a net shares settled forward contract outstanding during
     the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001. During the year ended March 31,
     2001, the Company received 276,890 shares in conjunction with the net share
     settled forward contract. No shares were received in conjunction with the
     net shares settled forward contract during the years ended March 31, 2002.
     During the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company delivered
     572,645 and 995,511 shares, respectively, in conjunction with the net share
     settled forward contract. During the year ended March 31, 2003, the Company
     purchased 1,264,700 shares of common stock in open market activities at a
     total price of $27,062,782. During the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001,
     there were no purchases of common stock in open market activities.

     Both basic and diluted net income per share incorporate the affects of the
     Company's stock repurchase program, shares received and delivered in
     connection with the net share settled forward contract and stock purchased
     in open market transactions as outlined above.

23.  QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

     The following table presents the Company's selected unaudited quarterly
     operating results for eight quarters ended March 31, 2003. The Company has
     presented the unaudited results for the first three quarters of the year
     ended March 31, 2003 as previously reported and as restated for the
     cumulative effect of change in accounting principle described in Footnote
     1. The Company believes that all necessary adjustments have been made to
     present fairly the related quarterly results (in thousands except per share
     amounts):

                                      F-25

                                           First     Second      Third
                                          Quarter    Quarter    Quarter
                                          --------   --------   --------
     FISCAL 2003 - PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

     Net sales                            $159,745   $169,748   $170,998
     Gross profit                           83,897     91,509     93,927
     Operating income                       31,096      4,545     49,174
     Net income                             21,726     10,263     37,037
     Diluted net income per share             0.10       0.05       0.18



24.  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Cash paid for income taxes amounted to $5,248,000, $12,695,000 and
     $24,763,000 during the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Cash paid for interest amounted to $538,000, $522,000 and
     $771,000 during the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. Included in the special charge for the year ended March 31,
     2003 was a non-cash amount of $41,500,000, which pertained to the
     write-down of the Fab 3 fixed assets. Included in the special charge for
     the year ended March 31, 2001 was a non-cash amount of $3,955,000, which
     pertained to the write-down of fixed assets due to the restructuring of the
     Company's manufacturing facilities.

     A summary of additions and deductions related to the allowance for doubtful
     accounts for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows (amounts
     in thousands):




                                      F-26

25.  DIVIDENDS

     On October 28, 2002, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had
     approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock. The
     initial quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share was paid on December 6, 2003
     in the amount of $4,060,766. A second quarterly cash dividend payment of
     $0.02 per share was paid on February 28, 2003 in the amount of $4,068,480.
     A third quarterly cash dividend of $0.024 per share was paid on May 29,
     2003 in the amount of $4,893,296.

26.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT (UNAUDITED)

     On April 7, 2003, the Company announced its intention to close its
     Chandler, Arizona (Fab 1) wafer fabrication facility and integrate certain
     Fab 1 personnel and processes into its Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) wafer
     fabrication facility. The Company expects to complete the integration
     process during the quarter ending June 30, 2003, after which Fab 1 will
     cease to operate as a wafer fabrication facility. The closure of Fab 1 and
     the integration of certain Fab 1 personnel into Fab 2 operations will
     result in a reduction in force of approximately 140 employees. The Company
     expects that, in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, it will incur
     accelerated depreciation charges and other expenses related to the shut
     down of Fab 1 of between $27 million and $33 million.

                                      F-27


