
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
(MARK ONE)
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                      OR
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM __________ TO __________
 
COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4448
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                     LOGO
                           Baxter International Inc.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   (Exact Name of Registrant in its Charter)
 
                     DELAWARE                              36-0781620
 -------------------------------------------        -------------------------
 (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or       (I.R.S. Employer
 Organization)                                         Identification No.)
 
     ONE BAXTER PARKWAY, DEERFIELD, ILLINOIS                  60015
      -------------------------------               -------------------------
     (Address of Principal Executive Offices)              (Zip Code)
 
                                               847.948.2000
Registrant's telephone number, including area code ____________________________
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                                      NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                   ON WHICH REGISTERED
                                                      --------------------
Common stock, $1 par value                            New York Stock Exchange
                                                      Chicago Stock Exchange
 
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       Pacific Stock Exchange
(currently traded with common stock)                  New York Stock Exchange
                                                      Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                      Pacific Stock Exchange
 
       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
                               ----------------
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                    X
                                    Yes No
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-
affiliates of the registrant (based on the per share closing sale price of
$55.38 on March 6, 1998, and for the purpose of this computation only, the
assumption that all registrant's directors and executive officers are
affiliates) was approximately $15.3 billion. There is no non-voting common
equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant.
 
  The number of shares of the registrant's common stock, $1 par value,
outstanding as of March 6, 1998, was 280,661,677.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Those sections or portions of the registrant's annual report to stockholders
for fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 and of the registrant's proxy
statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on May 5, 1998, described in the cross reference sheet and table of
contents attached hereto are incorporated by reference in this report.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
                                      AND
                               - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

- ---------------------
 (1) Information incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report to
     Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 ("Annual Report") and
     the board of directors' proxy statement for use in connection with the
     Registrant's annual meeting of stockholders to be held May 5, 1998
     ("Proxy Statement").
 (2) Annual Report, pages 31-46, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements" and pages 17-24, section entitled "Management's
     Discussion and Analysis."
 (3) Annual Report, pages 44-45, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Industry and Geographic Information."
 (4) Annual Report, pages 17-24, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
     Analysis" and pages 44-45, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Industry and Geographic Information."
 (5) Annual Report, pages 44-45, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Industry and Geographic Information."
 (6) Annual Report, pages 41-44, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Legal Proceedings."
 (7) Annual Report, page 46, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements--Quarterly Financial Results and Market for the Company's
     Stock (Unaudited)."
 (8) Annual Report, inside back cover, section entitled "Five-Year Summary of
     Selected Financial Data."
 (9) Annual Report, pages 17-24, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
     Analysis."
(10) Annual Report, pages 21-22, section entitled "Financial Instrument Market
     Risk."
(11) Annual Report, pages 26-46, sections entitled "Report of Independent
     Accountants," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of
     Income," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Consolidated
     Statements of Stockholders' Equity" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements."
(12) Proxy Statement, pages 2-5, section entitled "Proposal 1--Election of
     Directors."
(13) Proxy Statement, page 16, section entitled "Section 16(a) Beneficial
     Ownership Reporting Compliance."
(14) Proxy Statement, pages 6-10, sections entitled "Compensation of
     Directors" and "Executive Compensation," and pages 14-15, section
     entitled "Pension Plan, Excess Plans and Supplemental Plans."
(15) Proxy Statement, pages 16-17, section entitled "Ownership of Company
     Securities."

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                      LOGO
 
   Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     PART I
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
(a) General Development of Business.
 
  Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As
used in this report, except as otherwise indicated in information incorporated
by reference, "Baxter" means Baxter International Inc. and the "Company" means
Baxter and its subsidiaries.
 
  The Company is engaged in the worldwide development, distribution and
manufacture of a diversified line of products, systems and services used
primarily in the health-care field. Products are manufactured by the Company in
25 countries and sold in approximately 100 countries. Health-care is concerned
with the preservation of health and with the diagnosis, cure, mitigation and
treatment of disease and body defects and deficiencies. The Company's products
are used by hospitals, clinical and medical research laboratories, blood and
dialysis centers, rehabilitation centers, nursing homes, doctors' offices and
at home under physician supervision. See "Recent Developments."
 
  For information regarding acquisitions, investments in affiliates and
divestitures, see the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1997 (the "Annual Report"), pages 32-33, sections entitled
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Acquisitions and Divestitures,"
and "--Subsequent Events" which are incorporated by reference.
 
(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 44-45, section
entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Industry and Geographic
Information."
 
(c) Narrative Description of Business.
 
Recent Developments
 
 VIMRX
 
  In December 1997, the Company and VIMRX Pharmaceuticals Inc. formed a new
cell therapy company to develop innovative treatments for cancer and other
life-threatening diseases. The Company transferred certain assets of its
Immunotherapy division to the new company and holds a minority-ownership
position along with warrants to acquire an additional ownership interest in the
future.
 
 Ohmeda
 
  In January 1998, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire the
Pharmaceutical Products Division of the BOC Group's Ohmeda health-care
business, a manufacturer of gases and drugs used for general and local
anesthesia. The transaction is subject to customary anti-trust review and is
expected to close in 1998.
 
 Somatogen
 
  In February 1998, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire
Somatogen, Inc., a publicly-held biopharmaceutical developer of recombinant
hemoglobin technology. It is expected that a substantial portion of the
purchase price will be allocated to Somatogen's in-process research and
development, which, under generally accepted accounting principles, will be
immediately expensed by the Company. The transaction is subject to approval of
Somatogen's shareholders and customary anti-trust review; it is expected to
close in 1998.
 

 
Company Overview
 
  The Company operates in a single industry segment as a global developer,
manufacturer and marketer of products and technologies related to the blood
and circulatory system. It has market-leading positions in four businesses
within this segment of the medical products and services industry: Blood
Therapies, which develops biopharmaceutical and blood collection and
separation products and technologies; I.V. Systems/Medical Products, which
develops technologies and systems to improve intravenous medication delivery
and distributes medical products; Renal, which develops products and services
to treat kidney disease; and CardioVascular, which develops products and
provides services to treat late-stage heart disease and vascular disorders.
 
  Information about operating results is incorporated by reference from the
Annual Report, pages 17-21, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" and pages 44-45, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements--Industry and Geographic Information."
 
United States Markets
 
  The health-care marketplace continues to be competitive. There has been
consolidation in the Company's customer base and by its competitors which has
resulted in pricing and market share pressures. These industry trends are
expected to continue. The Company intends to continue to manage these issues
by capitalizing on its market-leading positions, developing new products and
services, leveraging its cost structure and making acquisitions.
 
International Markets
 
  The Company generates more than 50% of its revenues outside the United
States. While health-care cost containment continues to be a focus around the
world, demand for health-care products and services continues to be strong
worldwide, particularly in developing markets such as Latin America and Asia.
The Company's strategies emphasize global expansion and technological
innovation to advance medical care worldwide.
 
Joint Ventures
 
  The Company conducts an immaterial portion of its business through joint
ventures. The majority of these joint ventures are accounted for under the
equity method of accounting.
 
Methods of Distribution
 
  The Company conducts its selling efforts through its subsidiaries and
divisions. Many subsidiaries and divisions have their own sales forces and
direct their own sales efforts. In addition, sales are made to independent
distributors, dealers and sales agents. The Company's distribution centers are
stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales
and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales representatives,
automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems,
circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct mail campaigns,
trade publications and advertising. Customers may return defective merchandise
for credit or replacement. In recent years, such returns have been
insignificant.
 
  International sales and distribution are made in approximately 100 countries
either on a direct basis or through independent local distributors.
International subsidiaries employ their own field sales forces in Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark,
Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Guatemala, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia,
Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru,
the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand,
the United Kingdom and Venezuela. In other countries, sales are made through
independent distributors or sales agents.
 
Raw Materials
 
  Raw materials essential to the Company's business are purchased worldwide in
the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. The vast majority of
these materials are generally available, and no serious shortages or delays
have been encountered. Certain raw materials used in producing some of the
Company's products are available only from a small number of suppliers. In
addition, certain biomaterials for medical implant applications (primarily
polymers) are becoming more difficult to obtain due to market withdrawals by
biomaterial suppliers, primarily as a result of perceived exposures to
liability in the United States.
 

 
  In some of these situations, the Company has long-term supply contracts with
its suppliers, although it does not consider its obligations under such
contracts to be material. The Company does not always recover cost increases
through customer pricing due to contractual limits and market pressure on such
price increases. See "Contractual Arrangements."
 
Patents and Trademarks
 
  Products manufactured by the Company are sold primarily under its own
trademarks and trade names. Some products purchased and resold by the Company
are sold under the Company's trade names while others are sold under trade
names owned by its suppliers.
 
  The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and
is licensed under patents owned by others. The Company's policy is to protect
its products and technology through patent and trademark applications on a
worldwide basis. This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost
of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the Company. The
Company also recognizes the need to promote the enforcement of its patents and
trademarks. However, while the Company can not make any assurances that any of
its patents will not be circumvented, it does not consider its overall business
to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.
 
Competition
 
  Historically, competition in the health-care industry has been characterized
by the search for technological and therapeutic innovations in the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of disease. The Company believes that it has benefited
from the technological advantages of certain of its products. While others will
continue to introduce new products which compete with those sold by the
Company, the Company believes that its research and development efforts will
permit it to remain competitive in all presently material product areas.
Although no single company competes with the Company in all of its businesses,
the Company is faced with substantial competition in all of its markets.
 
  The changing health-care environment in recent years has led to increasingly
intense competition among United States health-care suppliers. Competition is
focused on price, service and product performance. Pressure in these areas is
expected to continue.
 
  The Company continues to increase its efforts to minimize costs and meet
United States price competition. The Company believes that its cost position
will continue to benefit from improvements in manufacturing technology and
increased economies of scale. The Company continues to emphasize its
investments in innovative and cost-effective technologies and the quality of
its products and services.
 
Credit and Working Capital Practices
 
  As of February 28, 1998, the Company's debt ratings on senior debt were A3 by
Moody's, A by Standard & Poor's and A- by Duff & Phelps.
 
  The Company's credit practices and related working capital needs are
comparable to those of other market participants. Collection periods tend to be
longer for sales outside the United States.
 
Quality Management
 
  The Company places significant emphasis on providing quality products and
services to its customers. A major portion of the Company's quality systems
relate to the manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution
and labeling of the products by the Company. These quality systems, including
control procedures that are developed and implemented by technically trained
professionals, result in rigid specifications for raw materials, packaging
materials, labels, sterilization procedures and overall manufacturing process
control. The quality systems integrate the efforts of suppliers of both raw
materials and finished goods to provide the highest value to customers. On a
statistical sampling basis, internal quality assurance organizations test
components and finished goods at different stages in the manufacturing process
to assure that exacting standards are met.
 
 

 
Research and Development
 
  The Company is actively engaged in research and development programs to
develop and improve products, systems and manufacturing methods. These
activities are performed at 21 research and development centers located around
the world and include facilities in Australia, Austria, Belgium, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, Malta, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom and
the United States. Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and development
activities were $392 million in 1997, $340 million in 1996 and $327 million in
1995.
 
  Principal areas of strategic focus for research include hemoglobin
therapeutics, xenotransplantation, medication-delivery systems and left-
ventricular systems. The Company is conducting several clinical trials of its
hemoglobin therapeutic, or "blood substitute," in the United States and
Europe. The Company currently anticipates launching the product by late 1999
or early in the year 2000. The Company's research efforts emphasize self-
manufactured product development, and portions of that research relate to
multiple product lines. For example, many product categories benefit from the
Company's research effort as applied to the human body's circulatory systems.
In addition, research relating to the performance and purity of plastic
materials has resulted in advances that are applicable to a large number of
the Company's products.
 
Government Regulation
 
  Most products manufactured or sold by the Company are subject to regulation
by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"), as well as by other agencies,
both within and outside the United States. In the United States, the federal
agencies which regulate the Company's facilities, operations and personnel
include the FDA, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Health
& Safety Administration, the Customs Department, the Commerce Department, and
others. State agencies also regulate the facilities, operations and personnel
of the Company within their respective states. The federal agencies possess
authority to regulate the introduction and advertising of the Company's
products and devices as well as manufacturing procedures, labeling and
recordkeeping. In addition, the FDA has the power, among other powers, to
enjoin the manufacture or sale of products and devices, to seize adulterated
or misbranded products and devices and to require the manufacturer to remove
them from the market. From time to time, the Company has removed products from
the market that were found not to meet acceptable standards. This may occur in
the future. Product regulatory laws exist in most other countries where the
Company does business. These foreign government agencies also regulate public
health, environmental, employment, export, customs, and other aspects of the
Company's global operations.
 
  Environmental policies of the Company mandate compliance with all applicable
regulatory requirements concerning environmental quality and contemplate,
among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental
protection. Various non-material capital expenditures for environmental
protection were made by the Company during 1997 and similar expenditures are
planned for 1998. See Item 3.--"Legal Proceedings."
 
Employees
 
  As of December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 41,000 people.
 
Contractual Arrangements
 
  A substantial portion of the Company's products are sold through contracts
with both international and domestic purchasers. Some of these contracts are
for terms of more than one year and include limits on price increases. In the
case of hospitals, clinical laboratories and other facilities, these contracts
may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of
products to be purchased by the customer.
 

 
Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
  Statements throughout this report that are not historical facts, including
but not limited to, statements in the "Company Overview," "International
Markets" and "Recent Developments" sections of this report (including material
incorporated therein by reference) are forward looking statements. These
statements are based on the Company's current expectations and involve numerous
risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks and uncertainties are factors that
affect all international businesses, while some are specific to the Company and
the health-care arenas in which it operates.
 
  The factors below in some cases have affected and could affect the Company's
actual results, causing results to differ, and possibly differ materially, from
those expressed in any such forward looking statements. These factors include
technological advances in the medical field, economic conditions, demand and
market acceptance risks for new and existing products, technologies and health-
care services, the impact of competitive products and pricing, manufacturing
capacity, new plant start-ups, the United States and global regulatory, trade
and tax policies, continued price competition related to the Company's United
States operations, product development risks, including technological
difficulties, ability to enforce patents and unforeseen foreign
commercialization and regulatory factors. In particular, the Company, as well
as other companies in its industry, is experiencing increased regulatory
activity by the United States FDA with respect to its plasma-based biologicals
and its complaint-handling systems. Additionally, as discussed in Item 3.--
"Legal Proceedings," upon the resolution of certain legal matters, the Company
may incur charges in excess of presently established reserves. Any such charge
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or
cash flows in the period in which it is recorded.
 
  Currency fluctuations are also a significant variable for global companies,
especially fluctuations in local currencies where hedging opportunities are
unreasonably expensive or unavailable. If the United States dollar continues to
strengthen against most foreign currencies, the Company's ability to realize
projected growth rates in its sales and net earnings outside the United States
will continue to be negatively impacted.
 
  The Company believes that its expectations with respect to forward looking
statements are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its
knowledge of its business and operations, but there can be no assurance that
the actual results or performance of the Company will conform to any future
results or performance expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
 
(d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
   Sales.
 
  International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in
conducting business outside the United States, such as changes in currency
exchange rates, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions,
nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action.
 
  Financial information is incorporated by reference from the Annual Report,
pages 44-45, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--
Industry and Geographic Information."
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The Company owns or has long-term leases on substantially all of its major
manufacturing facilities. The Company maintains 21 manufacturing facilities in
the United States, including six in Puerto Rico, and also manufactures in
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, France, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malta, Mexico,
the Netherlands, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia,
Turkey and the United Kingdom. The Company owns or operates distribution
facilities throughout the world, including 90 located in 26 foreign countries.
 
  The Company maintains a continuing program for improving its properties,
including the retirement or improvement of older facilities and the
construction of new facilities. This program includes improvement of
manufacturing facilities to enable production and quality control programs to
conform with the current state of technology and government regulations.
Capital expenditures were $403 million in 1997, $318 million in 1996 and $309
million in 1995. In addition, the Company added to the pool of equipment leased
or rented to customers, spending $93 million in 1997, $80 million in 1996 and
$90 million in 1995.
 

 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 41-44, section
entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Legal Proceedings."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  None.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                    PART II
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, page 46, section entitled
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Quarterly Financial Results and
Market for the Company's Stock (Unaudited)."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, inside back cover, section
entitled "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 17-24, section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 21-22, section
entitled "Financial Instrument Market Risk."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
  Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 26-46, sections
entitled "Report of Independent Accountants," "Consolidated Balance Sheets,"
"Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,"
"Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity" and "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements."
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  None.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
(a) Identification of Directors
  Incorporated by reference from the board of directors' proxy statement for
use in connection with Baxter's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
May 5, 1998 (the "Proxy Statement"), pages 2-5, section entitled "Proposal 1--
Election of Directors."
 
(b) Identification of Executive Officers
  Following are the names and ages, as of March 1, 1998, of the executive
officers of Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter"), and one or both of its two
principal direct subsidiaries, Baxter Healthcare Corporation ("Healthcare") and
Baxter World Trade Corporation ("World Trade"), their positions and summaries
of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers of Baxter
are elected or appointed by the board of directors and hold office until the
next annual meeting of directors and until their respective successors are
elected and qualified. The annual meeting of directors is held after the annual
meeting of stockholders. All executive officers of Healthcare and World Trade
are elected or appointed by the boards of directors of the applicable
subsidiary and hold office until their respective successors are elected and
qualified. As permitted by applicable law, actions by these boards (and their
sole stockholder, Baxter) may be taken by written consent in lieu of a meeting.
 
(1) Baxter International Inc. Executive Officers
 
  Vernon R. Loucks Jr., age 63, has been chairman of the board of directors
since 1987 and chief executive officer of Baxter since 1980. Mr. Loucks was
first elected an officer of Baxter in 1971.
 
  Harry M. Jansen Kraemer Jr., age 43, has been president of Baxter since March
1997. Mr. Kraemer previously was the senior vice president and chief financial
officer of Baxter from 1993, and the vice president of finance and operations
for a subsidiary of Baxter since 1992. Prior to that, he was employed as
controller, group controller, and president of various divisions of
subsidiaries of Baxter.
 
  Brian P. Anderson, age 47, has the been senior vice president and chief
financial officer of Baxter since February 1998. Mr. Anderson previously was
the vice president of finance of Baxter since March 1997, the corporate
controller since 1993, and the vice president of corporate audit of a
subsidiary of Baxter since 1991. Prior to that, he was a partner in the
international accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche.
 
  Arthur F. Staubitz, age 58, has been a senior vice president of Baxter since
December 1997. From 1993 to December 1997, he was senior vice president and
general counsel of Baxter. From 1993 to 1994, he was also secretary of Baxter.
Mr. Staubitz previously was vice president/general manager of the ventures
group of a subsidiary of Baxter. Prior to that, he was senior vice president,
secretary and general counsel of Amgen, Inc. Prior to that, he was a vice
president of a Baxter subsidiary, and prior to that he was a vice president and
deputy general counsel of Baxter.
 
  Michael J. Tucker, age 45, has been senior vice president of Baxter since
1995. From 1994 to 1995, he was a corporate vice president of World Trade. Mr.
Tucker previously was a vice president of a division of World Trade, and prior
to that, was a vice president of another division of a subsidiary of Baxter.
 
  Fabrizio Bonanni, age 51, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1995.
From 1994 to 1995, he was a corporate vice president of World Trade. Mr.
Bonanni previously was a vice president of a division of World Trade.
 
  John F. Gaither, Jr., age 48, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1994.
Between 1991 and 1994, Mr. Gaither was vice president of law and strategic
planning for a subsidiary of Baxter, and prior to that, was secretary and
deputy general counsel of Baxter.
 
  David C. McKee, age 50, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1996, and
was also secretary from February 1997 to February 1998. Since 1994, Mr. McKee
has been deputy general counsel of Baxter. Prior to that, he was associate
general counsel of a subsidiary of Baxter.
 

 
  Kshitij Mohan, age 53, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1995. In
1995, Mr. Mohan also was a corporate vice president of World Trade. Mr. Mohan
previously was a vice president of a division of Healthcare.
 
  John L. Quick, age 53, has been a vice president of Baxter since 1995. From
1994 to 1995, he was a corporate vice president of Healthcare. Mr. Quick
previously was a vice president of a division of Healthcare, and prior to
that, was a vice president of another division of that subsidiary.
 
  Thomas J. Sabatino, age 39, has been vice president and general counsel of
Baxter since December 1997. He was also assistant secretary from February 1997
to December 1997. From 1995 to December 1997, Mr. Sabatino was associate
general counsel of Healthcare. Prior to that, he was vice president and
assistant general counsel of Tenet Healthcare Corporation from March 1995 to
July 1995. From April 1994 to March 1995, he was vice president and general
counsel of American Medical International, Inc., and from September 1993 to
March of 1994, he was acting general counsel of that company; from 1992 to
September 1993, he was its associate general counsel.
 
  Steven J. Meyer, age 41, has been treasurer of Baxter since February 1997.
From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Meyer was a vice president of international finance of
a business group of World Trade. Mr. Meyer previously was the international
controller of a business group of World Trade.
 
  Jan Stern Reed, age 38, has been corporate secretary of Baxter since
February 1998. She was assistant secretary from February 1997 to February
1998. From 1995 to 1997, Ms. Reed was assistant secretary of, and counsel to
Wheelabrator Technologies, Inc. From 1992 to 1995, she was counsel to Waste
Management, Inc. and Wheelabrator Technologies, Inc.
 
(2) Healthcare and World Trade Executive Officers
 
  Timothy B. Anderson, age 51, has been a group vice president of Healthcare
and World Trade since 1994. Between 1992 and 1994, Mr. Anderson was a vice
president of Baxter. Mr. Anderson previously was president of several
divisions of a subsidiary of Baxter.
 
  Donald W. Joseph, age 60, has been a group vice president of Healthcare and
World Trade since 1994. Between 1990 and 1994, Mr. Joseph was a vice president
of Baxter.
 
  Jack L. McGinley, age 51, has been a group vice president of Healthcare
since 1994. Between 1992 and 1994, Mr. McGinley was a vice president of
Baxter. Mr. McGinley previously was president of a division of Healthcare, and
prior to that, he was president of the Japanese subsidiary of World Trade.
 
  Michael A. Mussallem, age 45, has been a group vice president of Healthcare
since 1994. From 1993 to 1994, Mr. Mussallem was president of a division of
Healthcare, and prior to that, was president of another division of that
subsidiary.
 
  Carlos del Salto, age 55, has been a senior vice president of World Trade
since 1996. From 1994 to 1996, Mr. del Salto was a corporate vice president of
World Trade. Between 1992 and 1994, Mr. del Salto was a vice president of
Baxter. Mr. del Salto previously was president--Latin
America/Switzerland/Austria of a subsidiary of Baxter, and prior to that, he
was vice president--Latin America of that subsidiary.
 
  David F. Drohan, age 59, has been a corporate vice president of Healthcare
since 1996. Between 1991 and 1996, Mr. Drohan was president of a division of
Healthcare.
 
  James M. Gatling, age 48, has been a corporate vice president of Healthcare
since 1996. Between 1991 and 1996, Mr. Gatling was a vice president of a
division of Healthcare.
 
  J. Robert Hurley, age 48, has been a corporate vice president of World Trade
since 1993. Mr. Hurley previously was vice president of a division of World
Trade.
 
  Roberto E. Perez, age 48, has been a corporate vice president of Healthcare
and World Trade since 1995. Between 1992 and 1995, Mr. Perez was president of
a division of a subsidiary of Baxter, and prior to that, was a vice president
of that division.
 

 
(c) Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement, page 16, section entitled
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement, pages 6-10, sections
entitled "Compensation of Directors" and "Executive Compensation" and pages 14-
15, section entitled "Pension Plan, Excess Plans and Supplemental Plans."
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  Incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement, pages 16-17, section
entitled "Ownership of Company Securities."
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  None.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                    PART IV
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
(a) Financial Statements                              Location
 
  Financial Statements Required By Item 8 of This Form
  Consolidated Balance Sheets                         Annual Report, page 27
  Consolidated Statements of Income                   Annual Report, page 28
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows               Annual Report, page 29
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity     Annual Report, page 30
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          Annual Report, pages 31-
  Report of Independent Accountants                   46
                                                      Annual Report, page 26
 
  Schedules Required By Article 12 of Regulation S-X
  Report of Independent Accountants on Financial
  Statement Schedule                                  page 10
  II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                page 11
 
  All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or
  not required.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
  A report on Form 8-K, dated February 11, 1998, was filed with the SEC under
  Item 5, Other Events, to file a press release disclosing Baxter's 1997
  results.
 
(c) Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed in the Exhibit
    Index, which is incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits in the Exhibit
    Index marked with a "C" in the left margin constitute management contracts
    or compensatory plans or arrangements contemplated by Item 14(a) of Form
    10-K. The list of exhibits so designated is incorporated by reference in
    this Part IV, Item 14.
 

 
     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
To the Board of Directors of
Baxter International Inc.
 
  Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated February 5, 1998 appearing on page 26 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Baxter International Inc. (which report and consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form
10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item
14(a) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein
when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
February 5, 1998
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
(In millions)

(A) Valuation accounts of acquired or divested companies and foreign currency
    translation adjustments.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                       Baxter International Inc.
 
                                         /s/ Vernon R. Loucks Jr.
                                       By:____________________________________
                                         Vernon R. Loucks Jr.
                                         Chairman of the Board and
                                         Chief Executive Officer
 
Date: March 17, 1998
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 
(i) Principal Executive Officers:
 
                                       (iv)A Majority of the Board of
                                        Directors
 
  /s/ Vernon R. Loucks Jr.                Walter E. Boomer
 
  Vernon R. Loucks Jr.                    Pei-yuan Chia
  Director, Chairman of the Board         John W. Colloton
  and Chief Executive Officer             Susan Crown
 
  /s/ Harry M. Jansen Kraemer Jr.         Mary Johnston Evans
 
  Harry M. Jansen Kraemer Jr.             Martha R. Ingram
  President                               Harry M. Jansen Kraemer Jr.
 
(ii) Principal Financial Officer:         Arnold J. Levine
 
  /s/ Brian P. Anderson                   Georges C. St. Laurent, Jr.
 
  Brian P. Anderson                       Monroe E. Trout, M.D.
  Senior Vice President and Chief         Reed V. Tuckson, M.D.
  Financial Officer                       Fred L. Turner
 
                                         /s/ Vernon R. Loucks Jr.
 
(iii) Controller:                      By: ____________________________________
 
  /s/ Brian P. Anderson                  Vernon R. Loucks Jr.
 
  Brian P. Anderson                      Director and Attorney-in-Fact
  Senior Vice President and Chief
  Accounting Officer
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   APPENDICES
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
             EXHIBITS FILED WITH SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

- -------
*Incorporated herein by reference.
CExhibit contemplated by Item 14(a)(3) of Form 10-K.
 
             (All other exhibits are inapplicable or not required.)
 
                            LOGO
                            Printed on Recycled Paper
 

 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 12
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 

 
(A) Represents the estimated interest portion of rents.
(B) As a result of the loss incurred during this period, the Company's earnings
    did not cover the indicated fixed charges. The earnings required to attain
    a ratio of one-to-one are $52 million.
(C) Included in this exhibit are supplemental presentations of the ratio of
    earnings to fixed charges which exclude the following significant unusual
    charges:
  1993: $216 million restructuring charge and $330 million net litigation
      charge.
  1995: $103 million restructuring charge, $96 million net litigation charge
      and $18 million in-process research and development charge.
  1997: $352 million in-process research and development charge.
 

 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY, AS OF MARCH 13, 1998

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subsidiaries omitted from this list, considered in aggregate as a single
subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.
 
                                   * * * * *
 
(1) Including director's qualifying and other nominee shares.
(2) All subsidiaries set forth herein are reported in the Company's financial
    statements through consolidations or under the equity method of accounting.
(3) Remaining shares owned by the Company, its subsidiaries or employees.
(4) Of common stock, with preferred stock held by Baxter Healthcare
    Corporation.
 

