
10-K405
FORM 10-K




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(Mark One)
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                      OR
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period from __________ to __________

                         Commission file number 1-4448

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Baxter International Inc.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   (Exact Name of Registrant in its Charter)

                     Delaware                              36-0781620
 -------------------------------------------        -------------------------
 (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or       (I.R.S. Employer
 Organization)                                         Identification No.)

     One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois                  60015
      -------------------------------               -------------------------
     (Address of Principal Executive Offices)              (Zip Code)

                                               847.948.2000
Registrant's telephone number, including area code ____________________________

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                   on which registered
                                                      --------------------
Common stock, $1 par value                            New York Stock Exchange,
                                                      Inc.

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                       Chicago Stock Exchange,
(currently traded with common stock)                  Inc.
                                                      Pacific Exchange, Inc.
                                                      New York Stock Exchange,
                                                      Inc.
                                                      Chicago Stock Exchange,
                                                      Inc.
                                                      Pacific Exchange, Inc.

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                               ----------------

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                    X
                                    Yes No

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

  The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-
affiliates of the registrant (based on the per share closing sale price of
$54.50 on February 29, 2000, and for the purpose of this computation only, the
assumption that all registrant's directors and executive officers are
affiliates) was approximately $15.6 billion. There is no non-voting common
equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant.

  The number of shares of the registrant's common stock, $1 par value,
outstanding as of February 29, 2000, was 290,529,593.

                      Documents Incorporated By Reference

  Those sections or portions of the registrant's annual report to stockholders
for fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 and of the registrant's proxy
statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on May 2, 2000, described in the cross reference sheet and table of
contents attached hereto are incorporated by reference in this report.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
                                      and
                               

- -------
 (1) Information incorporated by reference to Baxter's Annual Report to
     Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1999 ("Annual Report") and
     Baxter's proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of
     stockholders to be held May 2, 2000 ("Proxy Statement").
 (2) Annual Report, pages 37-39, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Acquisitions and Divestitures."
 (3) Annual Report, pages 48-49, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Segment Information."
 (4) Annual Report, pages 21-29, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
     Analysis" and pages 48-49, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Segment Information."
 (5) Annual Report, pages 48-49, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements--Segment Information."
 (6) Annual Report, page 50, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements--Quarterly Financial Results and Market for the Company's Stock
     (Unaudited)."
 (7) Annual Report, inside back cover, section entitled "Five-Year Summary of
     Selected Financial Data."
 (8) Annual Report, pages 21-29, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
     Analysis."
 (9) Annual Report, pages 28-29, section entitled "Financial Instrument Market
     Risk."
(10) Annual Report, pages 30-50, sections entitled "Report of Independent
     Accountants," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of
     Income," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Consolidated Statements
     of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income" and "Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements."
(11) Proxy Statement, pages 10-12, section entitled "Board of Directors--
     Director Biographies."
(12) Proxy Statement, page 14, section entitled "Board of Directors--
     Compensation of Directors" and pages 18-23, section entitled "Executive
     Compensation."
(13) Proxy Statement, pages 24-25, section entitled "Ownership of Baxter
     Stock."


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     PART I

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 1. Business.

(a) General Development of Business.

   Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As
used in this report, except as otherwise indicated in information incorporated
by reference, "Baxter International" means Baxter International Inc. and
"Baxter" or the "company" means Baxter International and its subsidiaries.

   Baxter engages in the worldwide development, manufacture and distribution of
a diversified line of products, systems and services used primarily in the
health-care field. We manufacture products in 29 countries and sell them in
over 100 countries. Health care is concerned with the preservation of health
and with the diagnosis, cure, mitigation and treatment of disease and body
defects and deficiencies. Our products are used by hospitals, clinical and
medical research laboratories, blood and dialysis centers, rehabilitation
centers, nursing homes, doctors' offices and by patients, at home, under
physician supervision.

   For information regarding significant acquisitions, investments in
affiliates and divestitures, see our Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1999 (Annual Report), pages 37-39, section entitled "Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements--Acquisitions and Divestitures" which is
incorporated by reference. See also "Recent Acquisitions."

(b) Financial Information About Segments.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 48-49, section
entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--Segment Information."

(c) Narrative Description of Business.

Recent Acquisitions

 North American Vaccine, Inc.

   In November 1999, Baxter announced an agreement to acquire North American
Vaccine, Inc., a developer, manufacturer and marketer of vaccines for adults
and children to prevent infectious diseases. The transaction has been
structured as a stock for stock transaction and is valued at approximately $390
million. The transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including
regulatory approval, and is expected to close during the first six months of
2000.

 Althin Medical A.B.

   In December 1999, Baxter announced an agreement to acquire Althin Medical
A.B. (Althin), a leading manufacturer of hemodialysis products based in Sweden.
The transaction, which closed in March 2000, was structured as a purchase of a
controlling interest in Althin followed by a public tender offer for all of
remaining shares. The cash and stock transaction was valued at approximately
$130 million.

Company Overview

   Baxter operates as a global leader in critical therapies for life-
threatening conditions. We develop, manufacture and market products and
technologies related to the blood and circulatory system. Our continuing
operations are comprised of three segments: I.V. Systems/Medical Products,
which develops technologies and systems to improve intravenous medication
delivery and distributes medical products; Blood Therapies, which develops
biopharmaceutical and blood collection and separation products and
technologies; and Renal, which develops products and provides services to treat
end-stage kidney disease. Our three businesses enjoy leading positions in the
medical products and services fields. In July 1999, we announced that our board
of directors had approved a plan to spin-off Baxter's CardioVascular business
to our stockholders. As a result of the board's approval of the spin-off, the
CardioVascular business, which is substantially the same as the former



CardioVascular segment, is now being reported as a discontinued operation in
our financial statements. We expect the spin-off to occur on or about March
31, 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, each of the factors discussed in this
Part I do not materially differ in their impact across each of our three
segments.

   Information about operating results is incorporated by reference from the
Annual Report, pages 21-29, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" and pages 48-49, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements--Segment Information."

 I.V. Systems/Medical Products

   Business Description. Baxter manufactures a range of products used to
deliver fluids and drugs to patients. These products provide fluid
replenishment, nutrition therapy, pain management, antibiotic therapy,
chemotherapy and other therapies. Baxter provides intravenous (IV) and
irrigating solutions in flexible, plastic and non-PVC containers; premixed
liquid and frozen drugs for IV delivery; IV access systems and tubing sets;
electronic IV infusion pumps; solutions, containers and automated compounding
systems for IV nutrition; IV anesthesia devices and inhalation agents; and
ambulatory infusion systems. Baxter also provides custom IV solution
compounding services in a number of markets around the world.

   Global Strategy. In established markets, such as North America, Australia
and parts of Europe, Latin America and Asia, Baxter uses its recognized
leadership in IV therapy to introduce value-added products that increase
productivity and quality while reducing costs for hospitals and other health-
care providers. In new and developing markets, Baxter's strategy is to
establish a presence with selected products based on local market requirements
and then broaden its offering as the market develops and market acceptance of
Baxter's technologies grows. Although the company has a strong manufacturing
presence all over the world, it has continued to form joint ventures to market
or manufacture its IV products in developing regions of Asia, Latin America
and Eastern Europe. Because IV products are used in such a broad range of
medical therapies, Baxter expects much of its future growth in the IV
Systems/Medical Products group to come from the continuing economic expansion
of developing regions as health-care standards improve.

   Product Development. Two years ago, Baxter introduced the Colleague(R)
single-channel volumetric infusion pump, and in 1999 launched a triple-channel
version, allowing clinicians to administer up to three IV solutions at a time
to a patient from a single pump. Also in 1999, Baxter launched a German-
language version of the Colleague, and in 2000, expects to introduce Colleague
in additional languages. In addition, last year Baxter launched a new
electronic ambulatory infusion pump for pain management and a new multi-
chamber bag for IV nutrition. In 2000, Baxter plans to release a new automated
compounding system for use by hospital pharmacies to custom-mix patient-
specific IV nutrition solutions. Baxter also continues to look at advancing
technologies in the "needleless" IV access area, and at expanding its line of
premixed drugs.

   Acquisitions and Alliances. In 1999, Baxter reclaimed the distribution
rights for its inhalation agents in Canada and Western Europe from Pharmacia &
Upjohn, Inc. and also acquired its IV business in Germany. Baxter also began
distributing Gensia Sicor's generic propofol anesthetic. In early 2000, Baxter
acquired several outpatient infusion pumps and related medical systems from
Sabratek Corporation. Baxter also expects to continue to expand its alliances
with pharmaceutical companies to premix and package their drugs in Baxter IV
solution containers.

 Blood Therapies

   Business Description. Baxter produces therapeutic proteins from plasma and
through recombinant methods to treat hemophilia, immune deficiencies and other
blood-related disorders. These include coagulation factors, immune globulins,
albumin, wound-management products and vaccines. Baxter also manufactures
blood-collection containers and automated blood-cell separation and collection
systems. These products are used by hospitals, blood banks and plasma-
collection centers to collect and process blood components for therapeutic
use, or for processing into therapeutic products, such as albumin. Therapeutic
blood components are used to treat patients undergoing surgery, cancer therapy
and other critical therapies.

   Global Strategy. The company has benefited from growth from its Recombinate
Antihemophilic Factor (recombinant), used to treat hemophilia A (the most
common form of hemophilia, characterized by lack of a clotting factor, Factor
VIII), as more production capacity has become available in Baxter's
recombinant facility in Thousand Oaks, California, in 2000. For Baxter's
blood-collection products, increased automation and the incorporation of
leukoreduction technologies (to eliminate unwanted white cells from collected
blood components) is expected to continue to drive growth. Technologies to
automate the collection of red cells and inactivate viral pathogens in
collected blood components may provide opportunities for longer term growth.



   Product Development. In the first quarter of 1999, Baxter launched a
recombinant Factor IX product in Europe. Baxter also continues to pursue a
protein-free manufacturing process for recombinant blood-clotting factors.
Other products in development include a next-generation fibrin sealant and
vaccines for Lyme disease and influenza. In blood processing, Baxter and its
development partner, Cerus Corporation, are in clinical trials with pathogen-
inactivation technologies for platelets, plasma and red cells. Baxter also is
developing technology for the automated collection of red cells. In addition,
the company is developing a recombinant solution to replicate the function of
the hemoglobin molecule in carrying oxygen to vital organs in cases of severe
blood loss.

   Acquisitions and Alliances. Baxter's 1997 acquisition of Immuno AG greatly
expanded the company's portfolio of plasma-derived therapeutic proteins. It
also added significant new wound-management products, like Tisseel(R) fibrin
sealant, and vaccines to Baxter's product offering, while strengthening
Baxter's market presence and research and development capabilities in Europe.
In November 1999, Baxter announced plans to acquire North American Vaccine,
Inc., which Baxter expects will further broaden its position in the vaccines
market.

 Renal

   Business Description. Baxter provides a range of renal dialysis products and
services to support people with kidney failure. The company is the world's
leading manufacturer of products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), a home dialysis
therapy. These products include PD solutions, container systems, and automated
machines that cleanse patients' blood overnight while they sleep. Baxter also
manufactures dialyzers and instrumentation for hemodialysis (HD). Baxter's
Renal Therapy Services (RTS) operates dialysis clinics in 12 countries outside
the United States, while Renal Management Strategies Inc. (RMS) partners with
U.S. nephrologists to provide a kidney-disease management program to health-
care payers.

   Global Strategy. There are approximately one million known dialysis patients
in the world. Many more people with kidney disease currently go undiagnosed or
untreated, particularly in developing countries. Because PD can offer a lower-
cost alternative to HD, which requires an infrastructure of clinics, one of
Baxter's strategies is to increase the use of PD in developing countries where
people desperately need some form of dialysis treatment. Baxter also seeks to
expand PD in developed countries, where the lifestyle advantages offered by the
therapy make it an attractive alternative to in-center care for certain
patients. Baxter expects to continue to invest in both PD and HD and in its RTS
business in order to improve patient outcomes and provide a full spectrum of
quality, cost-effective dialysis products and services that best meet the needs
of patients, physicians and payers.

   Product Development. In 1999, Baxter introduced a new generation of
HomeChoice(TM) technology: the HomeChoice(TM) PRO with PD Link. In addition to
providing overnight dialysis, the device improves patient monitoring by
allowing physicians to electronically access therapy data directly from the
machine. Baxter also continues to develop new PD solutions to manage specific
patient conditions. These include Nutrineal(R) solution, which provides extra
nutrition to patients, and Extraneal(R) solution, which draws excess fluid from
the bloodstream. For HD patients, Baxter has received approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for its new Meridian(R) hemodialysis instrument.
The company also is investing in xenotransplantation--animal-to-human
transplants. Baxter's Nextran unit is working to develop genetically modified
pig organs that someday could be transplanted safely into humans. This research
extends beyond kidneys to livers, hearts and other organs.

   Acquisitions and Alliances. In late 1999, Baxter announced that it was
acquiring Althin Medical A.B., a Swedish manufacturer of hemodialysis
instruments and dialyzers. As described under "Joint Ventures" below, Baxter
entered into a joint venture with Gambro A.B. (Gambro) of Sweden to create
Tandem Healthcare LLC (Tandem). The company's RTS business continues to acquire
dialysis clinics in Asia, Europe and Latin America, where it operates the
clinics in partnership with local physicians. RTS entered the year 2000 with
more than 160 clinics in Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, France, Indonesia,
Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

 Discontinued Operation

   In July 1999, our board of directors approved a plan to spin-off Baxter's
CardioVascular business to our stockholders. We expect that the CardioVascular
business will become an independent, publicly-traded company on or about March
31, 2000. The new company will be headquartered in Irvine, California, and will
be named Edwards Lifesciences Corporation.



   Business Description. The CardioVascular business designs, develops,
manufactures and markets a comprehensive line of products and services to
treat late-stage cardiovascular disease. These include: cardiac surgery
products, encompassing heart valve therapy products, mechanical cardiac assist
systems, and cannulae and cardioplegia; critical care products, featuring
cardiac monitoring systems and disposables used to evaluate cardiac output and
measure blood pressure; vascular products, which includes products used in
peripheral vascular surgery, surgical accessories, implantable grafts, and
endovascular graft systems for treating aortic aneurysms; perfusion products
and services, comprised of oxygenators and related disposables used during
cardiopulmonary bypass, cardiopulmonary bypass hardware and perfusion
services; and left ventricular-assist devices.

United States Markets

   The health-care marketplace continues to be highly competitive. There has
been consolidation in the company's customer base, and by its competitors,
which has resulted in pricing and market share pressures. These industry
trends are expected to continue. The company intends to continue to manage
these issues by developing new products and services, leveraging its cost
structure and making acquisitions.

International Markets

   Baxter generates more than 50 percent of its revenues outside the United
States. While health-care cost containment continues to be a focus around the
world, demand for health-care products and services continues to be strong
worldwide, particularly in developing markets. The company's strategies
emphasize global expansion and technological innovation to advance medical
care worldwide.

Joint Ventures

   In March 1999, Baxter entered into a United States-based manufacturing
joint venture with Gambro, an international medical technology and health-care
company based in Sweden. The joint venture, named Tandem, sources dialyzers
from an existing Baxter production facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas. Baxter
manages the day-to-day operations on behalf of the joint venture.

   In addition to the joint venture with Gambro, the company conducts a non-
material amount of business through other joint ventures. Many of these joint
ventures are conducted by the company's IV Systems/Medical Products and Renal
businesses, and most are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Methods of Distribution

   Baxter conducts its selling efforts through its subsidiaries and divisions.
Many subsidiaries and divisions have their own sales forces and direct their
own sales efforts. In addition, sales are made to and through independent
distributors, dealers and sales agents. In the United States, Allegiance
Healthcare Corporation distributes a significant portion of the company's
products. These distribution centers are generally stocked with adequate
inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution
methods include frequent contact by sales representatives, automated
communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of
catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade
publications and advertising. Customers may return defective merchandise for
credit or replacement. In recent years, such returns have been insignificant.

   International sales and distribution are made in over 100 countries either
on a direct basis or through independent local distributors. International
subsidiaries employ their own field sales forces in Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Spain,
Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Venezuela. In
other countries, sales are made through independent distributors or sales
agents.

Raw Materials

   Raw materials essential to the company's business are purchased worldwide
in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. The vast majority
of these materials are generally available, and no serious shortages or delays
have been encountered. Certain raw materials used in producing some of the
company's products are available only from a small number of suppliers. In
addition, certain biomaterials for medical implant applications (primarily
polymers) are becoming more difficult to obtain due to market withdrawals by
biomaterial suppliers, primarily as a result of perceived exposures to
liability in the United States.



   In some of these situations, the company has long-term supply contracts with
its suppliers, although it does not consider its obligations under such
contracts to be material. Baxter does not always recover cost increases through
customer pricing due to contractual limits and market pressure on such price
increases. See "Contractual Arrangements."

Patents and Trademarks

   Products manufactured by Baxter are sold primarily under its own trademarks
and trade names. Some products purchased and resold by the company are sold
under the company's trade names while others are sold under trade names owned
by its suppliers.

   Baxter owns a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and is
licensed under patents owned by others. Baxter's policy is to protect its
products and technology through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis.
This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such protection
against obtaining the greatest value for the company. The company also
recognizes the need to promote the enforcement of its patents and trademarks.
However, while Baxter can not make any assurances that any of its patents will
not be circumvented, it does not consider its overall business to be materially
dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.

Competition

   Historically, competition in the health-care industry has been characterized
by the search for technological and therapeutic innovations in the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of disease. The company believes that it has benefited
from the technological advantages of certain of its products. While others will
continue to introduce new products which compete with those sold by Baxter, the
company believes that its research and development efforts will permit it to
remain competitive in all presently material product areas. Although no single
company competes with Baxter in all of its businesses, Baxter is faced with
substantial competition in all of its markets.

   The changing health-care environment in recent years has led to increasingly
intense competition among United States and certain European health-care
suppliers. Competition is focused on price, service and product performance.
Pressure in these areas is expected to continue.

   The company continues to increase its efforts to minimize costs and meet
price competition. The company believes that its cost position will continue to
benefit from improvements in manufacturing technology and increased economies
of scale. The company intends to continue to develop new products and services,
invest in capital and human resources to upgrade and expand facilities,
leverage its cost structure and make selected acquisitions.

Credit and Working Capital Practices

   As of March 1, 2000, Baxter's debt ratings on senior debt were A3 by
Moody's, A by Standard & Poor's and A- by Duff & Phelps. The company's credit
practices and related working capital needs are comparable to those of other
market participants. Collection periods tend to be longer for sales outside the
United States.

Quality Management

   Baxter places significant emphasis on providing quality products and
services to its customers. A major portion of the company's quality systems
relate to the manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution
and labeling of the products by the company. These quality systems, including
control procedures that are developed and implemented by technically trained
professionals, result in rigid specifications for raw materials, packaging
materials, labels, sterilization procedures and overall manufacturing process
control. The quality systems integrate the efforts of suppliers of both raw
materials and finished goods to provide the highest value to customers. On a
statistical sampling basis, internal quality assurance organizations test
components and finished goods at different stages in the manufacturing process
to assure that exacting standards are met.

Research and Development

   Baxter is actively engaged in research and development programs to develop
and improve products, systems and manufacturing methods. These activities are
performed at research and development centers located around the world and
include facilities in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malta, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United
States. Expenditures for Baxter-sponsored research and development activities
were $332 million in 1999, $323 million in 1998, and $339 million in 1997.



   Principal areas of strategic focus for research include hemoglobin
therapeutics, plasma-based therapies, vaccines, xenotransplantation, and
medication-delivery systems. The company's research efforts emphasize self-
manufactured product development, and portions of that research relate to
multiple product lines. For example, many product categories benefit from the
company's research effort as applied to the human body's circulatory systems.
In addition, research relating to the performance and purity of plastic
materials has resulted in advances that are applicable to a large number of
the company's products.

Government Regulation

   Most products manufactured or sold by the company are subject to regulation
by numerous governmental agencies, both within and outside the United States,
including the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for products
manufactured or sold in the United States. In the United States, the federal
agencies which regulate the company's facilities, operations and personnel
include the FDA, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Health
& Safety Administration, the Customs Department, the Commerce Department, the
Treasury Department and others. State agencies also regulate the facilities,
operations and personnel of the company within their respective states.

   The various governmental agencies possess authority to regulate the
manufacturing procedures, labeling, recordkeeping, promotion and advertising
of the company's products. In addition, the FDA has the authority to halt the
distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or
misbranded medical devices, or order the repair, replacement or refund of the
costs of such devices. The FDA may also require notification of health
professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present risks of
substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may enjoin and restrain certain
violations of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health
Services Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical products,
or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. Moreover, the
FDA administers certain controls over the export of medical products from the
United States and the importation of products into the United States. From
time to time, the company has removed products from the market that were found
not to meet acceptable standards. This may occur in the future. Similar
regulations and laws exist in most other countries where the company does
business. Government agencies outside of the United States also regulate
public health, environmental, employment, export, customs, and other aspects
of the company's global operations.

   Environmental policies of the company mandate compliance with all
applicable regulatory requirements concerning environmental quality and
contemplate, among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for
environmental protection. Various non-material capital expenditures for
environmental protection were made by Baxter during 1999 and similar
expenditures are planned for 2000. See Item 3.--"Legal Proceedings."

Employees

   As of December 31, 1999, Baxter employed approximately 45,000 people.

Contractual Arrangements

   A substantial portion of the company's products are sold through contracts
with both United States and foreign purchasers. Some of these contracts are
for terms of more than one year and include limits on price increases. In the
case of hospitals, clinical laboratories and other facilities, these contracts
may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of
products to be purchased by the customer. In keeping with the increased
emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend
among hospitals and other customers of medical products manufacturers is to
consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. The
medical products industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in
order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result,
transactions with customers are larger, more complex and tend to involve more
long-term contracts than in the past. The enhanced purchasing power of these
larger customers may also increase the pressure on product pricing, although
management is unable to estimate the potential impact at this time.

Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

   Statements throughout this report that are not historical facts, including
but not limited to, statements in the "Company Overview," "International
Markets" and "Recent Acquisitions" sections of this report (including material
incorporated therein by reference) are forward-looking statements. These
statements are based on the company's current expectations and involve
numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks and uncertainties are
factors that affect all international businesses, while some are specific to
the company and the health-care arenas in which it operates.



   The factors below in some cases have affected and could affect the company's
actual results, causing results to differ, and possibly differ materially, from
those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. These factors include
technological advances in the medical field, unforeseen information technology
issues related to the company or third parties, economic conditions, demand and
market acceptance risks for new and existing products, technologies and health-
care services, the impact of competitive products and pricing, manufacturing
capacity, new plant start-ups, global regulatory, trade and tax policies,
continued price competition, product development risks, including technological
difficulties, ability to enforce patents and unforeseen commercialization and
regulatory factors. In particular, the company, like other companies in its
industry, is experiencing increased regulatory activity by the FDA with respect
to its plasma-based operations. Additionally, as discussed in Item 3.-- "Legal
Proceedings," upon the resolution of certain legal matters, the company may
incur charges in excess of presently established reserves. Any such charge
could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or
cash flows in the period in which it is recorded.

   Currency fluctuations are also a significant variable for global companies,
especially fluctuations in local currencies where hedging opportunities are
unreasonably expensive or unavailable. If the United States dollar strengthens
significantly against most foreign currencies, the company's ability to realize
projected growth rates in its sales and net earnings outside the United States
could be negatively impacted.

   The company believes that its expectations with respect to forward-looking
statements are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its
knowledge of its business and operations, but there can be no assurance that
the actual results or performance of the company will conform to any future
results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

(d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
Sales.

   International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in
conducting business outside the United States, such as changes in currency
exchange rates, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions,
nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action.

   Financial information is incorporated by reference from the Annual Report,
pages 48-49, section entitled "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--
Segment Information."



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 2. Properties.

   Baxter owns or has long-term leases on substantially all of its major
manufacturing facilities. With respect to its continuing operations, the
company maintains 23 manufacturing facilities in the United States, including
five in Puerto Rico. The company also manufactures in Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malta,
Mexico, New Zealand, the Philippines, Poland, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland,
Tunisia, Turkey and the United Kingdom. While the majority of these facilities
are shared by more than one of the company's business segments, eleven
domestic facilities and ten international facilities exclusively manufacture
for the IV Systems/Medical Products operations; nine domestic and six
international facilities exclusively manufacture for Blood Therapies
operations, and the Renal business is the exclusive operator of two
international facilities. The company also owns or operates shared
distribution facilities throughout the world, including eleven in the United
States and Puerto Rico, and 98 located in 35 foreign countries.

   The company maintains a continuing program for improving its properties,
including the retirement or improvement of older facilities and the
construction of new facilities. This program includes improvement of
manufacturing facilities to enable production and quality control programs to
conform to the current state of technology and government regulations. Capital
expenditures relating to continuing operations were $529 million in 1999, $461
million in 1998 and $367 million in 1997. Additions to the installed base of
equipment leased to customers was $102 million in 1999, $95 million in 1998
and $87 million in 1997.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

   Baxter International and certain of its subsidiaries are named as
defendants in a number of lawsuits, claims and proceedings, including product
liability claims involving products now or formerly manufactured or sold by
the company or by companies that were acquired by the company. These cases and
claims raise difficult and complex factual and legal issues and are subject to
many uncertainties and complexities, including, but not limited to, the facts
and circumstances of each particular case or claim, the jurisdiction in which
each suit is brought, and differences in applicable law. Accordingly, in many
cases, Baxter International is not able to estimate the amount of its
liabilities with respect to such matters.

   Upon resolution of any of the legal matters discussed below, Baxter
International may incur charges in excess of presently established reserves.
While such a future charge could have a material adverse impact on the
company's net income and net cash flows in the period in which it is recorded
or paid, management believes that no such charge would have a material adverse
effect on Baxter International's consolidated financial position.

 Mammary Implant Litigation

   Baxter International, together with certain of its subsidiaries, is
currently a defendant in various courts in a number of lawsuits brought by
individuals, all seeking damages for injuries of various types allegedly
caused by silicone mammary implants formerly manufactured by the Heyer-Schulte
division (Heyer-Schulte) of American Hospital Supply Corporation (AHSC). AHSC,
which was acquired by Baxter in 1985, divested its Heyer-Schulte division in
1984. It is not known how many of these claims and lawsuits involve products
manufactured and sold by Heyer-Schulte, as opposed to other manufacturers. In
December 1998, a panel of independent medical experts appointed by a federal
judge announced their findings that reported medical studies contained no
clear evidence of a connection between silicone mammary implants and
traditional or atypical systemic diseases. In June 1999, a similar conclusion
was announced by a committee of independent medical experts from the Institute
of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences.

   As of December 31, 1999, Baxter International, together with certain of its
subsidiaries, was named as a defendant or co-defendant in 2,006 lawsuits and
340 claims relating to mammary implants, brought by approximately 4,762
plaintiffs, of which 3,810 are implant plaintiffs and the remainder are
consortium or second generation plaintiffs. Of those plaintiffs, 1,335
currently are included in the Lindsey class action Revised Settlement
described below, which accounts for 755 of the pending lawsuits against the
company. Additionally, 2,335 plaintiffs have opted out of the Revised
Settlement (representing 1,176 pending lawsuits), and the status of the
remaining plaintiffs with pending lawsuits is unknown. Some of the opt-out
plaintiffs filed their cases naming multiple defendants and without product
identification; thus, not all of the opt-out plaintiffs will have viable
claims against the company. As of December 31, 1999, 919 of the opt-out
plaintiffs had confirmed Heyer-Schulte mammary implant product identification.
Furthermore, during 1999, Baxter obtained dismissals, or agreements for
dismissals, with respect to 5,687 plaintiffs.



   In addition to the individual suits against the company, a class action on
behalf of all women with silicone mammary implants was filed on March 23, 1994
and is pending in the United States District Court (U.S.D.C.) for the Northern
District of Alabama involving most manufacturers of such implants, including
Baxter, as successor to AHSC (Lindsey, et al., v. Dow Corning, et al.,
U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., CV 94-P-11558-S). The class action was certified for
settlement purposes only by the court on September 1, 1994, and the settlement
terms were subsequently revised and approved on December 22, 1995 (Revised
Settlement). The monetary provisions of the Revised Settlement provide
compensation for all present and future plaintiffs and claimants through a
series of specific funds and a disease-compensation program involving certain
specified medical conditions. All appeals directly challenging the Revised
Settlement have been dismissed.

   On January 16, 1996, Baxter, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Minnesota
Mining and Manufacturing Company each paid $125 million into the court-
established fund as an initial fund to pay claims under the Revised Settlement.
Union Carbide Corporation and McGhan Medical Corporation also are parties to
the Revised Settlement.

   In addition to the Lindsey class action, the company also has been named in
six other purported class actions in various state and provincial courts, only
one of which is certified: Harrington v. Dow Corning Corp., et al., Supreme
Court, British Columbia, C954330. The class action in British Columbia has been
certified solely with respect to the issue of whether silicone gel breast
implants are reasonably fit for their intended purpose.

   In the fourth quarter of 1993, Baxter International accrued $556 million for
its estimated liability resulting from the settlement of the Lindsey class
action and recorded a receivable for estimated insurance recoveries totaling
$426 million, resulting in a net charge of $130 million. Based on its
continuing evaluation of the remaining opt-outs, Baxter International accrued
an additional $298 million for its estimated liability to litigate or settle
cases and claims involving opt-outs and recorded an additional receivable for
estimated insurance recoveries totaling $258 million, resulting in an
additional net charge of $40 million in the first quarter of 1995.

   In the third quarter of 1998, Baxter International accrued an additional
$250 million for its estimated liability resulting from the class action
settlement and remaining opt-out cases and claims. Substantially more women
have both participated in, and opted out of, the global class action than
originally anticipated, thereby increasing the total estimated costs of this
litigation and necessitating an increase in litigation reserves. Baxter
International recorded a receivable for related estimated insurance recoveries
of $121 million, resulting in an additional net charge of $129 million.

   The mammary implant litigation includes issues related to which of Baxter's
insurers are responsible for covering each matter and the extent of the
company's claims for contribution against third parties. Baxter believes that a
substantial portion of its liability and defense costs for mammary implant
litigation will be covered by insurance, subject to self-insurance retentions,
exclusions, conditions, coverage gaps, policy limits and insurer solvency. The
company has entered into "coverage-in-place" agreements with a number of its
insurers, each of which issued or subscribed to policies of insurance between
1974 and 1985. These agreements resolve the signatory insurers' coverage
defenses and specify rules and procedures for allocation and payment of defense
and indemnity costs pursuant to which signatory insurers will reimburse Baxter
for mammary implant losses. Five of the company's claims-made insurers, which
issued policies subsequent to 1985, have agreed to pay under their policies
with respect to mammary implant claims. The combined total of the amount thus
far paid by insurers, committed for payment, and projected by Baxter to be paid
by insurers under these agreements is in excess of $700 million, based on the
company's current estimate of mammary implant expenditures. The insurers with
which Baxter has not reached coverage agreements generally have reserved (i.e.,
neither admitted nor denied), and may attempt to reserve in the future, the
right to deny coverage, in whole or in part, due to differing theories
regarding, among other things, the applicability of coverage and when coverage
may attach. Baxter is engaged in active litigation with each of these insurers
and is negotiating with certain of them to resolve outstanding insurance
coverage issues.

 Plasma-Based Therapies Litigation

   Baxter currently is a defendant in a number of claims and lawsuits brought
by individuals who have hemophilia, all seeking damages for injuries allegedly
caused by anti-hemophilic factor concentrates VIII or IX derived from human
blood plasma (factor concentrates) processed by the company from the late 1970s
to the mid-1980s. The typical case or claim alleges that the individual was
infected with the HIV virus by factor concentrates, which contained the HIV
virus. None of these cases involves factor concentrates currently processed by
the company.



   As of December 31, 1999, Baxter was named in 251 lawsuits and 108 claims in
the United States, Canada, Ireland, Japan, Germany and the Netherlands. All
U.S. federal court factor concentrate cases have been transferred to the
U.S.D.C. for the Northern District of Illinois for case management under Multi
District Litigation (MDL) rules (MDL Docket No. MDL-986), and are being
remanded in 2000 to the courts in which they were filed. The company also has
been named in four purported class actions. None of these class actions has
been certified for trial.

   In most states, Baxter's potential liability is limited by laws that
provide that the sale of blood or blood derivatives, including factor
concentrates, is not covered by the doctrine of strict liability. As a result,
each claimant must prove that his or her injuries were caused by the company's
negligence.

   On May 6, 1997, the U.S.D.C. approved a class action settlement submitted
by the plaintiffs' steering committee for the MDL, Baxter, Alpha Therapeutic
Corporation, Armour Pharmaceutical and Bayer Corporation. The essential terms
of the settlement provide payments of $100,000 to each HIV-positive person
with hemophilia in the United States who can demonstrate use of factor
concentrates produced by one of the settling defendants between 1978 and 1985.
Additionally, the defendants have established a $40 million fund for payment
of attorneys' fees, costs and court-administration expenses. Baxter's agreed
contribution to the proposed settlement is 20 percent of the total settlement
proceeds.

   Baxter and the other defendants have reached agreements to settle potential
subrogation and reimbursement claims with most private insurers, the federal
government and all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. As of
December 31, 1999, approximately 6,500 claimant groups had been found eligible
to participate in the settlement, and approximately 300 claimants had opted
out of the settlement. Approximately 6,128 of the claimant groups had received
payments as of December 31, 1999, and payments are expected to continue
through the first quarter of 2000 as releases are received from the remaining
claimant groups.

   In Japan, Baxter is a defendant, along with the Japanese government and
four other co-defendants, in factor concentrates cases in Osaka, Tokyo,
Nagoya, Tohoku, Fukuoka, Sapporo and Kumamoto. As of December 31, 1999, the
cases involved 1,315 plaintiffs, of whom 1,307 have settled their claims.
Based upon the Osaka and Tokyo courts' recommendations, the parties have
agreed to a settlement of all pending and future factor concentrate cases. In
general, the settlement provides for payment of an up-front, lump-sum amount
of approximately $360,000 per plaintiff to be funded 40 percent by the
Japanese government and 60 percent by the corporate defendants. The share of
the settlement to be paid by each corporate defendant was determined based
upon its market share, resulting in a contribution by Baxter of approximately
15.36 percent. The portion of the settlement to be funded by the corporate
defendants will include credits for certain prior payments made by the
corporate defendants under a separate Japanese government-administered
program, which pays monthly amounts to HIV-positive and AIDS-manifested people
with hemophilia and their survivors. Additionally, monthly payments will be
made to each plaintiff according to a set schedule.

   In Spain, Baxter was notified in 1995 that approximately 1,370 HIV-positive
people with hemophilia wished to explore settlement possibilities with the
company in lieu of filing suit in both Spain and the United States. The
parties have reached agreement on the terms of a settlement whereby each
claimant will receive $25,000 (including attorneys' fees and costs) in return
for a general release and protection against contribution claims by other
defendants. As of December 31, 1999, all 1,370 claimants had agreed to the
settlement. Baxter does not expect any additional claimants to come forward.

   In addition, Immuno International AG (Immuno) has unsettled claims for
damages for injuries allegedly caused by its plasma-based therapies. The
typical claim alleges that the individual with hemophilia was infected with
HIV by factor concentrates containing the HIV virus. Additionally, Immuno
faces multiple claims stemming from its vaccines and other biologically
derived therapies. A portion of the liability and defense costs related to
these claims will be covered by insurance, subject to exclusions, conditions,
policy limits and other factors. In addition, pursuant to the stock purchase
agreement between the company and Immuno, approximately 84 million Swiss
francs of the purchase price was withheld to cover these contingent
liabilities. In April 1999, the stock purchase agreement between the company
and Immuno was amended to revise the holdback amount from 84 million Swiss
francs to 26 million Swiss francs (or approximately $16 million at December
31, 1999) in consideration for an April 1999 payment by the company of 29
million Swiss francs to Immuno as additional purchase price. Based on
management's estimates, the company has recorded an appropriate liability and
related insurance receivable with regard to the matters described above.



   Baxter is currently a defendant in a number of claims and lawsuits brought
by individuals who infused the company's Gammagard(R) IVIG (intravenous immuno-
globulin), all of whom are seeking damages for Hepatitis C infections allegedly
caused by infusing Gammagard(R) IVIG. As of December 31, 1999, Baxter was a
defendant in 38 lawsuits and 50 claims in the United States, Denmark, France,
Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Two suits currently pending in
the United States have been filed as purported class actions but only one has
been certified. All U.S. federal court Gammagard(R) IVIG cases have been
transferred to the U.S.D.C. for the Central District of California for case
management under MDL rules. On February 21, 1996, the court certified a
nationwide class of persons who had infused Gammagard(R) IVIG (Geary, et al.,
v. Baxter Healthcare Corporation, U.S.D.C., C.D., CA, ML-95-160-R). In December
1999, the U.S.D.C. for the Central District of California granted preliminary
approval to a proposed settlement of the class action agreed upon by
plaintiffs' class counsel and Baxter that would provide financial compensation
for U.S. individuals who used Gammagard(R) IVIG between January 1993 and
February 1994.

   Baxter has entered into coverage in place agreements covering factor
concentrates lawsuits with certain of its insurers that issued or subscribed to
policies of insurance between 1978 and 1985. These agreements resolve the
signatory insurers' coverage defenses and specify rules and procedures for
allocation and payment of defense and indemnity costs pursuant to which the
signatory insurers will reimburse the company for factor concentrates losses.
The few insurers with which Baxter has not reached coverage agreements
generally have reserved (i.e., neither admitted nor denied), and may attempt to
reserve in the future, the right to deny coverage, in whole or in part, due to
differing theories regarding, among other things, the applicability of coverage
and when coverage may attach. Baxter is engaged in negotiations with certain of
these insurers to resolve outstanding insurance coverage issues. The company
believes that a substantial portion of the liability and defense costs related
to all of its plasma-based therapies litigation will be covered by insurance,
subject to self-insurance retentions, exclusions, conditions, coverage gaps,
policy limits and insurer solvency.

   In the fourth quarter of 1993, Baxter International accrued $131 million for
its estimated worldwide liability for litigation and settlement expenses
involving factor concentrates cases and recorded a receivable for insurance
coverage of $83 million, resulting in a net charge of $48 million. In the third
quarter of 1995, significant developments occurred, primarily in the United
States, Europe and Japan relative to claims and litigation pertaining to
Baxter's plasma-based therapies. After analyzing circumstances in light of such
developments and considering various factors and issues unique to each
geography, Baxter International revised its estimated exposure from the $131
million previously recorded for factor concentrates litigation to $378 million
for all litigation relating to plasma-based therapies, including the factor
concentrates litigation and the Gammagard(R) IVIG litigation. Related estimated
insurance recoveries were revised from $83 million for factor concentrates to
$274 million for all plasma-based therapies. This resulted in a net charge of
$56 million in the third quarter of 1995.

   Baxter has settled and continues to settle claims and lawsuits relating to
its plasma-based therapies through court-ordered mediation and other
mechanisms. Based on this and other currently available information, Baxter
International revised its estimate of liabilities and insurance recoveries and,
in the third quarter of 1998, accrued an additional $180 million for its
estimated liability for plasma-based therapies litigation and other litigation
and recorded a receivable for related estimated insurance recoveries of $131
million, for a net charge of $49 million.

 Other Litigation

   As of September 30, 1996, the date of the spin-off of Allegiance Corporation
("Allegiance") from Baxter International, Allegiance assumed the defense of
litigation involving claims related to Allegiance's businesses, including
certain claims of alleged personal injuries as a result of exposure to natural
rubber latex gloves. Allegiance has not been named in most of this litigation
but will be defending and indemnifying Baxter pursuant to certain contractual
obligations for all expenses and potential liabilities associated with claims
pertaining to latex gloves. As of December 31, 1999, the company had been named
as a defendant in 491 lawsuits, including the following purported class action:
Swartz v. Baxter Healthcare Corporation, et al. Court of Common Pleas,
Jefferson County, PA, 656-1997 C.D. On February 26, 1997, all federal cases
involving latex gloves were ordered to be transferred to the U.S.D.C. for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania for case management under the MDL rules (MDL
Docket No. 1148).




   Baxter has been named a potentially responsible party (PRP) for
environmental cleanup costs at [19] hazardous-waste sites. Under the United
States Superfund statute and many state laws, generators of hazardous waste
that is sent to a disposal or recycling site are liable for cleanup of the site
if contaminants from that property later leak into the environment. The laws
generally provide that a PRP may be held jointly and severally liable for the
costs of investigating and remediating the site. Allegiance has assumed
responsibility for 10 of these sites. In 1999, Baxter settled liability at one
of the seven sites not assumed by Allegiance. The estimated exposure for
Baxter's remaining six sites is approximately $2 million, which has been
accrued (and not discounted) in the company's financial statements.

   In addition to the cases discussed above, Baxter is a defendant in a number
of other claims, investigations and lawsuits. Based on the advice of counsel,
management does not believe that, individually or in the aggregate, these other
claims, investigations and lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the
company's results of operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

   None.



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    PART II

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, page 50, section entitled
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements -- Quarterly Financial Results and
Market for the Company's Stock (Unaudited)."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, inside back cover, section
entitled "Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 21-29, section
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 28-29, section
entitled "Financial Instrument Market Risk."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

   Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 30-50, sections
entitled "Report of Independent Accountants," "Consolidated Balance Sheets,"
"Consolidated Statements of Income," "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,"
"Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income" and
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

   None.



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   PART III

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

(a) Identification of Directors

   Incorporated by reference from Baxter's proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 2, 2000
(Proxy Statement), pages 10-12, section entitled "Board of Directors--Director
Biographies."

(b) Identification of Executive Officers

   Following are the names and ages, as of March 1, 2000, of the executive
officers of Baxter International, and one or both of its two principal direct
subsidiaries, Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Healthcare) and Baxter World
Trade Corporation (World Trade), their positions and summaries of their
backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers of Baxter
International are elected or appointed by the board of directors and hold
office until the next annual meeting of directors and until their respective
successors are elected and qualified. The annual meeting of directors is held
on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders. All executive officers of
Healthcare and World Trade are elected or appointed by the boards of directors
of the applicable subsidiary and hold office until their respective successors
are elected and qualified. As permitted by applicable law, actions by these
boards (and their sole stockholder, Baxter International) may be taken by
written consent in lieu of a meeting.

(1) Baxter International Inc. Executive Officers

   Harry M. Jansen Kraemer, Jr., age 45, is chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of Baxter International. He became chief executive officer
in January 1999, and chairman in January 2000. Mr. Kraemer previously was the
senior vice president and chief financial officer of Baxter from 1993 to 1997.

   Brian P. Anderson, age 49, is senior vice president and chief financial
officer of Baxter International, having served in that capacity since February
1998. Mr. Anderson previously was corporate vice president of finance of
Baxter International beginning May 1997, and the corporate controller from
1993 to 1997.

   Timothy B. Anderson, age 53, is group vice president, corporate strategy
and development of Baxter International, having served in that capacity since
November 1999. Prior to that he served as group vice president of Healthcare
and World Trade.

   John F. Gaither, Jr., age 50, is corporate vice president, corporate
development for Baxter International having served in that capacity since
1994. Before assuming his current position, Mr. Gaither was vice president of
law and strategic planning for a subsidiary of Baxter, and prior to that, was
secretary and deputy general counsel of Baxter International.

   Steven J. Meyer, age 43, is treasurer of Baxter International, having
served in that capacity since February 1997. From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Meyer was
a vice president of international finance of a business group of World Trade.

   Kshitij Mohan, age 55, is corporate vice president, research and technical
services, of Baxter International having served in that capacity since 1995.

   John L. Quick, age 55, is a corporate vice president, quality/regulatory,
of Baxter International, having served in that capacity since 1994.

   Jan Stern Reed, age 40, is corporate secretary of Baxter International
having served in that capacity since February 1998. Prior to that she was
assistant corporate secretary from February 1997 to February 1998. From 1995
to 1997, Ms. Reed was assistant corporate secretary of, and counsel to,
Wheelabrator Technologies Inc., a publicly-traded subsidiary of Waste
Management, Inc.

   Thomas J. Sabatino, Jr., age 41, is corporate vice president and general
counsel of Baxter International, having served in that capacity since December
1997. He was also assistant secretary from February 1997 to December 1997.
From 1995 to December 1997, Mr. Sabatino was an associate general counsel of
Healthcare. Prior to that, he was vice president and assistant general counsel
of Tenet Healthcare Corporation.



   Michael J. Tucker, age 47, is senior vice president, human resources, of
Baxter International, having served in that capacity since October 1995. Prior
to that, he was a corporate vice president of World Trade.

(2) Healthcare and World Trade Executive Officers

   Eric A. Beard, age 48, is a corporate vice president of World Trade, having
served in that capacity since October 1998. Prior to that, he was president of
a division of a subsidiary of World Trade.

   Carlos del Salto, age 57, is a senior vice president of World Trade, having
served in that capacity since 1996. Prior to that, Mr. del Salto was a
corporate vice president of World Trade.

   David F. Drohan, age 61, is a corporate vice president of Healthcare, having
served in that capacity since 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Drohan was president of
a division of Healthcare.

   James M. Gatling, age 50, is a corporate vice president of Healthcare,
having served in that capacity since December 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Gatling
was a vice president of a division of Healthcare.

   Thomas H. Glanzmann, age 41, is a corporate vice president of World Trade
and Healthcare, having served in that capacity since October 1998. Prior to
that, he was president of a division of a subsidiary of World Trade.

   J. Robert Hurley, age 50, is a corporate vice president of World Trade,
having served in that capacity since 1993.

   Donald W. Joseph, age 62, is a group vice president of Healthcare and World
Trade, having served in that capacity since 1994.

   Jack L. McGinley, age 53, is a group vice president of Healthcare, having
served in that capacity since 1994.

   David C. McKee, age 52, is a corporate vice president and deputy general
counsel of Healthcare, having served in that capacity since 1999. Prior to
that, Mr. McKee was corporate vice president and deputy general counsel of
Baxter International since 1994, and was corporate secretary from February 1997
to February 1998.

   Michael A. Mussallem, age 47, is a group vice president of Healthcare,
having served in that capacity since 1994. Mr. Mussallem will be the chairman
and chief executive officer of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation following
Baxter's spin-off of the cardiovascular business.

(c) Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

   Not applicable.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

   Incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement, page 14, section
entitled "Board of Directors --Compensation of Directors" and pages 18-23,
section entitled "Executive Compensation."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

   Incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement, pages 24-25, section
entitled "Ownership of Baxter Stock."

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

   None.



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    PART IV

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

   The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

(a) Financial Statements                              Location

  Financial Statements Required By Item 8 of This Form
     Consolidated Balance Sheets                      Annual Report, page 31
     Consolidated Statements of Income                Annual Report, page 32
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows            Annual Report, page 33
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity  Annual Report, page 34
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       Annual Report, pages 35-
     Report of Independent Accountants                50
                                                      Annual Report, page 30

     Schedules Required By Article 12 of Regulation S-X
     Report of Independent Accountants on Financial
     Statement Schedule                               page 17
     II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts             page 18

     All other schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or
  not required.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

  On April 1, 1999 and July 13, 1999, Baxter International filed current
  reports on Form 8-K, each under Item 5., "Other Events." The first filed an
  exhibit to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  1998. The second filed a press release announcing the spin-off of its
  CardioVascular business to Baxter International stockholders.

(c) Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed in the Exhibit
    Index, which is incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits in the Exhibit
    Index marked with a "C" in the left margin constitute management contracts
    or compensatory plans or arrangements contemplated by Item 14(a) of Form
    10-K. The list of exhibits so designated is incorporated by reference in
    this Part IV, Item 14.



       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors of
Baxter International Inc.

   Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated February 16, 2000 appearing in the 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Baxter International Inc., (which report and consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K), also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed
in Item 14(A) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 16, 2000



SCHEDULE II
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(in millions of dollars)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Valuation accounts of acquired or divested companies and foreign currency
    translation adjustments. Reserves are deducted from assets to which they
    apply.



                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       Baxter International Inc.

                                         /s/ Harry M. Jansen Kraemer, Jr.
                                       By: ____________________________________
                                         Harry M. Jansen Kraemer, Jr.
                                         Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 23, 2000

   KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below
constitutes and appoints Harry M. Jansen Kraemer, Jr. and Jan Stern Reed, and
each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with
full power of substitution and resubstitution, in any and all capacities, to
sign any or all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file the same with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all
intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying
and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or their
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.









- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   APPENDICES



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             EXHIBITS FILED WITH SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION











- -------
*  Incorporated herein by reference.
C  Exhibit contemplated by Item 14(a)(3) of Form 10-K.

             (All other exhibits are inapplicable or not required.)

 Copies of the above exhibits are available at a charge of 35 cents
 per page upon written request to the Stockholder Services Department,
 Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois
 60015. Copies are also available at a charge of at least 25 cents per
 page from the Public Reference Section of the Securities and Exchange
 Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20549.



