
10-K405
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. 10-K405







________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                       OR

             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the transition period from    to

                         Commission file number 1-8974

                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



Registrant's telephone number, including area code (973)455-2000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



- ---------

*  The common stock is also listed for trading on the London stock exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [x]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $45.9 billion at December 31, 1999.

There were 795,133,694 shares of Common Stock outstanding at December 31, 1999.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
       Part I and II: Annual Report to Shareowners for the Year Ended December
31, 1999.
       Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held
May 1, 2000.

________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________






                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET





- ---------

*  To be included in a definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after
   December 31, 1999.







                               


- ---------

 (a) These items are omitted since the Registrant will file with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
     14A involving the election of directors not later than 120 days after
     December 31, 1999. Certain other information relating to the Executive
     Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15 and 16 of this Report.








                                    PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    On December 1, 1999, AlliedSignal Inc. (AlliedSignal) and Honeywell Inc.
(former Honeywell) completed a merger under an Agreement and Plan of Merger
(Merger Agreement) dated as of June 4, 1999. Under the Merger Agreement, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AlliedSignal merged with and into the former
Honeywell. As a result of the merger, the former Honeywell has become a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AlliedSignal. At the effective time of the merger,
AlliedSignal was renamed Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell).

MAJOR BUSINESSES

    Honeywell is a diversified technology and manufacturing company, serving
customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, control technologies
for buildings, homes and industry, automotive products, power generation
systems, specialty chemicals, fibers, plastics and electronic and advanced
materials. Our operations are conducted by strategic business units, which have
been aggregated under four reportable segments: Aerospace Solutions, Automation
& Asset Management, Performance Materials and Power & Transportation Products.
Financial information related to our reportable segments is included in Note 23
(Segment Financial Data) of Notes to Financial Statements in our 1999 Annual
Report to Shareowners which is incorporated by reference.

    Following is a description of our strategic business units:













































RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

    As previously described on page 4 of this Form 10-K, AlliedSignal and the
former Honeywell completed a merger on December 1, 1999 which was accounted for
under the pooling-of-interests accounting method. On that date, the former
Honeywell shareowners were entitled to receive 1.875 shares of Honeywell
International Inc. common stock for each share of the former Honeywell common
stock, with cash paid in lieu of any fractional shares. As a result, former
Honeywell shareowners were entitled to receive approximately 241 million shares
of Honeywell International Inc. common stock valued at approximately $15 billion
at the merger date.

    After completion of the merger in the fourth quarter of 1999, we recognized
a pretax charge of $642 million for the cost of actions designed to improve our
combined competitiveness and productivity and improve future profitability. The
merger-related actions included the elimination of redundant corporate offices
and functional administrative overhead; elimination of redundant and excess
facilities and workforce in our combined aerospace businesses; adoption of six
sigma productivity initiatives at the former Honeywell businesses; and
transition to a global shared services model. The components of the charge
included severance costs of $342 million, asset impairments of $108 million,
other exit costs of $57 million and merger-related transaction and period
expenses of $135 million. Planned global workforce reductions consisted of
approximately 6,500 administrative and manufacturing positions. Asset
impairments principally related to the elimination of redundant or excess
corporate and aerospace facilities and equipment. At year-end, approximately $9
million of redundant assets were not able to be removed from service and are
currently being depreciated over their shortened useful lives. Other exit costs
related to lease terminations and contract cancellation losses negotiated or
subject to reasonable estimation at year-end. Merger-related transaction and
period expenses consisted of investment banking and legal fees, former Honeywell
deferred compensation vested upon change in control and other direct
merger-related expenses incurred in the period the merger was completed. All
merger-related actions are expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

    In 1999, we also recognized a pretax charge of $321 million for the costs of
actions designed to reposition principally the AlliedSignal business units for
improved productivity and future profitability. These repositioning actions
included the organizational realignment of our aerospace businesses to
strengthen market focus and simplify business structure; elimination of an
unprofitable product line and rationalization of manufacturing capacity and
infrastructure in the Performance Polymers business; a






reduction in infrastructure in the Turbocharging Systems business; closing a wax
refinery and carbon materials plant and rationalization of manufacturing
capacity in the Specialty Chemicals business; elimination of two manufacturing
facilities in our Electronic Materials business; a plant closure and outsourcing
activity in our automotive Consumer Products Group business; and related and
general workforce reductions in all AlliedSignal businesses and our Industrial
Control business. The components of the charge included severance costs of $140
million, asset impairments of $149 million, and other exit costs of $32 million.
Global workforce reductions consisted of approximately 5,100 manufacturing,
administrative, and sales positions. Asset impairments principally related to
manufacturing plant and equipment held for sale and capable of being taken out
of service and actively marketed in the period of impairment. Other exit costs
principally consisted of environmental exit costs associated with chemical plant
shutdowns. All repositioning actions, excluding environmental remediation, are
expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

    Based on our review of the operations and infrastructure of the two
companies and our integration planning to date, we expect that the combined
company will realize annual cost savings of at least $250 million in 2000, $575
million in 2001 and $750 million in 2002. We expect to realize at least $750
million in cost savings in 2002 as follows:

     by achieving procurement and purchasing efficiencies by utilizing
     AlliedSignal's and the former Honeywell's combined purchasing capabilities,
     centralizing the two companies' purchasing processes and benefiting from
     the added buying efficiencies that we expect as a result of higher volume
     purchases;

     by accelerating implementation of our 'Six Sigma' initiative to achieve
     defect-free performance in manufacturing and other business processes, and
     applying this initiative to the former Honeywell businesses, to further
     enhance the quality of our products and services and increase productivity;

     by rationalizing corporate overhead costs through the elimination of
     redundant corporate functions and facilities;

     by reducing overhead in the combined company's aerospace businesses by
     eliminating redundancies in the sales and administrative functions and
     field service operations of these businesses;

     by integrating the two companies' research and development programs and
     achieving research and development efficiencies;

     by reducing the combined company's infrastructure costs by integrating
     AlliedSignal's and the former Honeywell's international operations and
     eliminating infrastructure redundancies; and

     by providing to the former Honeywell's business units administrative
     services in the areas of accounting, human resources, travel, information
     technology and training, through AlliedSignal's centralized shared services
     organization, and eliminating similar services currently provided by the
     former Honeywell to its business units.

    While we expect that we will be able to realize these cost savings, we can
give no assurance that we will actually be able to do so.

    In February 2000, we completed the acquisition of Pittway Corporation
(Pittway) for approximately $2.2 billion, including the assumption of the net
debt of Pittway of approximately $167 million. Pittway had 1999 sales of
approximately $1.6 billion. Pittway designs, manufactures and distributes
security and fire systems for homes and buildings.

    In December 1999, we completed the acquisition of TriStar Aerospace Co.
(TriStar) for approximately $300 million, which included the assumption of
approximately $107 million of TriStar debt. TriStar had 1998 annual sales of
approximately $200 million. TriStar distributes fasteners, fastening systems and
related hardware and provides customized inventory management services to
original equipment manufacturers of aircraft and aircraft components, commercial
airlines, and aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities.






    In September 1999, we sold our Laminate Systems business for approximately
$425 million in cash resulting in a pretax gain of $106 million. The Laminate
Systems business had 1998 sales of approximately $400 million.

    In August 1999, we completed the acquisition of Johnson Matthey Electronics,
a division of Johnson Matthey Plc, for approximately $655 millon in cash.
Johnson Matthey Electronics supplies wafer fabrication materials and
interconnect products to the electronics and telecommunications industries and
had 1998 annual sales of approximately $670 million.

AEROSPACE SALES

    Our 1999 and 1998 sales to aerospace customers were both approximately 42
percent of our total sales. Our 1999 and 1998 sales to aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 15 percent and 16 percent, respectively, of our
total sales. If there were a large decline in sales of aircraft that use our
components, operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our
1999 and 1998 sales to aftermarket customers of aerospace products and services
were 19 percent and 18 percent, respectively, of our total sales. If there were
a large decline in the number of flight hours for aircraft that use our
components or services, operating results could be negatively impacted.

U.S. GOVERNMENT SALES

    Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace Solutions
segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime
contractors, amounted to $2,383, $2,693 and $2,655 million in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively, which includes sales to the U.S. Department of Defense of
$1,415, $1,658 and $1,618 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. We are
affected by U.S. Government budget constraints for defense and space programs.
U.S. defense spending increased slightly in 1999 and is also expected to
increase slightly in 2000.

    In addition to normal business risks, companies engaged in supplying
military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual
risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
regulations and other policies that may reflect military and political
developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs
and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design
improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating
increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of
forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly
sophisticated technical work and other factors characteristic of the industry.
Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly
development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices.

    We, like other government contractors, are subject to government
investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations. Although such regulations provide that a contractor may be
suspended or barred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the outcome of pending government investigations cannot be predicted with
certainty, we are not currently aware of any such investigations that we expect,
individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on us. In
addition, we have a proactive business compliance program designed to ensure
compliance and sound business practices.

BACKLOG

    Our total backlog at year-end 1999 and 1998 was $8,736 and $9,400 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $6,400 million of the 1999
backlog will be filled in 2000. We believe that backlog is not a reliable
indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders
constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer's option.






COMPETITION

    We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and
service areas. Such competition is expected to continue in all geographic
regions. Competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and
services provided by us, and vary country by country. Depending on the
particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of
factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service,
performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition.
Brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important
competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable
price competition. Other competitive factors for certain products include
breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and
managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products
and services, we believe we are a significant factor in each of our major
product and service classes. However, certain of our products and services are
sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of
which have substantial financial resources and significant technological
capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive
component divisions of original equipment manufacturers.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    We are engaged in manufacturing, sales and/or research and development
mainly in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. U.S. exports and
foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations.

    Our international operations, including U.S. exports, are potentially
subject to a number of unique risks and limitations, including: fluctuations in
currency value; exchange control regulations; wage and price controls;
employment regulations; foreign investment laws; import and trade restrictions,
including embargoes; and governmental instability. However, we have limited
exposure in high risk countries and have taken action to mitigate such risks.

    Financial information related to geographic areas is included in Note 24
(Geographic Areas -- Financial Data) of Notes to Financial Statements in our
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners which is incorporated by reference.

RAW MATERIALS

    The principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily
available. We experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase of
key raw materials and commodities in 1999. We are not dependent on any one
supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. However, we are highly
dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to
our customers. In addition, many major components and product equipment items
are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic
and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and performance surveillance
process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. While we
believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally
adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases
may have in the future. However, at present, we have no reason to believe a
shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2000.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES AND DISTRIBUTION RIGHTS

    Our business as a whole, and that of our strategic business units, are not
dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or
distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents,
patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which
relate to many of our products or improvements thereon and are of importance to
our business. From time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and
patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. We also have
distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services
produced by other companies. In the judgment of management, such rights are
adequate for the conduct of the business being done by us. We believe that, in
the aggregate, the rights under such patents, trademarks and licenses are
generally important to our operations, but we do not consider that any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights
related to a specific process or product are of material importance in






relation to our total business. See Item 3 at page 15 of this Form 10-K for
information concerning litigation relating to patents in which we are involved.

    We have registered trademarks for a number of our products, including such
consumer brands as Honeywell, Prestone, FRAM, Anso and Autolite.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of
new products and processes, improvements in existing products and processes, and
the development of new uses of existing products.

    Research and development expense totaled $909, $876 and $796 million in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S.
Government) research and development activities amounted to an additional $682,
$718 and $850 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

ENVIRONMENT

    We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements regulating
the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment. It is our policy to comply with these
requirements and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices
and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with
our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in certain
of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar
businesses.

    We are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use or disposal
of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory
agencies. We believe that, as a general matter, our handling, manufacture, use
and disposal of such substances are in accord with environmental laws and
regulations. It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other
developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the
environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and
enforcement policies thereunder, could bring into question our handling,
manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.

    Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal
superfund law, and similar state laws, under which we have been designated as a
potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated
with various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency's superfund priority list. Although, under some court
interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party
might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it
is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we
have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-
party situations taken as a whole.

    Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities at existing
operations were $40 million in 1999. In addition to capital expenditures, we
have incurred and will continue to incur operating costs in connection with such
facilities.

    Reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis at page 35 of our
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, incorporated herein by reference, for further
information regarding environmental matters.

EMPLOYEES

    We have approximately 120,000 employees at December 31, 1999. Approximately
81,500 were located in the United States, and, of these employees, about 20%
were unionized employees represented by various local or national unions.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    We have approximately 950 locations consisting of plants, research
laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. The plants are generally
located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw
materials and labor pools. The properties are generally maintained in good
operating condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with government
spending and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is
significantly idle. The facilities, together with planned






expansions, are expected to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. We own or
lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and
materials handling and data processing equipment. We also lease space for
administrative and sales staffs. Our headquarters and administrative complex is
located at Morris Township, New Jersey.

    Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are
as follows:



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The paragraphs under the headings 'Litton Litigation' and 'Other Matters' of
Note 21 (Commitments and Contingencies) of Notes to Financial Statements at
page 55 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                                   Not Applicable

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of the Registrant, listed as follows, are elected
annually. There are no family relationships among them.










- ---------

(a) Also a director.

                                    PART II.

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    Market and dividend information for the Registrant's common stock is
contained in Note 26 (Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information) of Notes to
Financial Statements at page 61 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

    The number of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 1999 was
81,282.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information included under the captions 'Results of Operations',
'Earnings per Common Share' and 'Financial Position At Year-End' in the
statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 30 of our 1999 Annual Report to
Shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    'Management's Discussion and Analysis' on pages 20, 24, 26, 28 and 31
through 38 of our 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated herein by
reference.

    This Report contains, or incorporates by reference, certain statements that
may be deemed 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of
historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our
management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur
in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon
certain assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their
experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions,
expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
The forward-looking statements included in this Report are also subject to a
number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to
economic, competitive,






governmental and technological factors affecting our operations, markets,
products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results, developments and business
decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Information relating to market risk is included under the caption 'Financial
Instruments' in 'Management's Discussion and Analysis' on pages 35 and 36 of our
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Our consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated January 27, except as to Note 25 which is as of
February 4, 2000, appearing on pages 39 through 61 of our 1999 Annual Report to
Shareowners, are incorporated herein by reference. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
did not audit the financial statements of Honeywell Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary, which statements reflect total assets of $7,170.4 million at
December 31, 1998, and total sales of $8,426.7 and $8,027.5 million for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 1998. Such financial statements
were audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP whose audit opinion on such statements was
as follows:



                        Independent Auditors' Report
                        ----------------------------

To the Shareowners of Honeywell Inc.:

    We have audited the statement of financial position of Honeywell Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998, and the related statements of income,
shareowners' equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 1998 (not separately included herein). These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Honeywell Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 1998 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP
Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 10, 1999

    With the exception of the aforementioned information and the information
incorporated by reference in Items 1, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 7A, the 1999 Annual Report
to Shareowners is not to be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K Annual
Report.

    The information provided pursuant to this Item supersedes or modifies the
financial information and pro forma financial information included in our
Current Reports on Form 8-K filed January 21 and February 14, 2000.






ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                                   Not Applicable

                                   PART III.

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information relating to directors of the Registrant, as well as information
relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, will be contained in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which the Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after
December 31, 1999, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
Certain other information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant
appears at pages 15 and 16 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy
Statement referred to above in 'Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,' and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in 'Item 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,' and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                   Not Applicable

                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K



(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules

    The two financial statement schedules applicable to us have been omitted
because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.










(a)(3.) Exhibits

    See the Exhibit Index to this Form 10-K Annual Report. The following
exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this Form 10-K Annual
Report:



(b) Reports on Form 8-K

    During the three months ended December 31, 1999, Current Reports on
Form 8-K were filed on December 3, announcing the consummation of the merger
between AlliedSignal Inc. and Honeywell Inc. and on December 17, reporting
selected income statement and segment financial data.


                            STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES


The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as........................'r'











                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

February 22, 2000                           By:    /s/ RICHARD J. DIEMER, JR.
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                  Richard J. Diemer, Jr.
                                               Vice President and Controller

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:



February 22, 2000







                                 EXHIBIT INDEX









- ---------

    The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements.










