
10-K
0001.txt
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. 10-K












________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                       OR

             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the transition period from    to

                         Commission file number 1-8974

                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



Registrant's telephone number, including area code (973)455-2000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



- ---------
*  The common stock is also listed for trading on the London stock exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $38.2 billion at December 31, 2000.

There were 807,291,445 shares of Common Stock outstanding at December 31, 2000.

________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________






                               


- ---------

    This report contains certain statements that may be deemed 'forward-looking
statements' within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address
activities, events or developments that we or our management intends, expects,
projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are
forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon certain assumptions
and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and their
perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future
developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. The
forward-looking statements included in this report are also subject to a number
of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic,
competitive, governmental and technological factors affecting our operations,
markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results, developments and business
decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.

                                      i




                                    PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    On October 22, 2000, Honeywell entered into a merger agreement with General
Electric Company (GE). Under the terms of the merger agreement, each share of
Honeywell common stock will be exchangeable for 1.055 shares of GE common stock
at the effective time of the merger, with fractional shares paid in cash, and
Honeywell will become a wholly owned subsidiary of GE. The transaction was
approved by Honeywell's shareowners on January 10, 2001, and it remains subject
to regulatory reviews. GE and Honeywell are working with regulatory agencies to
complete the required reviews so that the transaction can close as early as
possible in 2001.

MAJOR BUSINESSES

    Honeywell is a diversified technology and manufacturing company, serving
customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, control technologies
for buildings, homes and industry, automotive products, power generation
systems, specialty chemicals, fibers, plastics and electronic and advanced
materials. Our operations are conducted by strategic business units, which have
been aggregated under four reportable segments: Aerospace Solutions, Automation
& Control, Performance Materials and Power & Transportation Products. Financial
information related to our reportable segments is included in 'Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements.

    Following is a description of our strategic business units:

























































AEROSPACE SALES

    Our sales to aerospace customers were 40, 42 and 42 percent of our total
sales in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Our sales to aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 14, 15 and 16 percent of our total sales in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively. If there were a large decline in sales of aircraft
that use our components, operating results could be negatively impacted. In
addition, our sales to aftermarket customers of aerospace products and services
were 19, 19 and 18 percent of our total sales in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. If there were a large decline in the number of flight hours for
aircraft that use our components or services, operating results could be
negatively impacted.

U.S. GOVERNMENT SALES

    Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace Solutions
segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime
contractors, amounted to $2,219, $2,383 and $2,693 million in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively, which includes sales to the U.S. Department of Defense of
$1,548, $1,415 and $1,658 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. We are
affected by U.S. Government budget constraints for defense and space programs.
U.S. defense spending increased slightly in 2000 and is also expected to
increase slightly in 2001.

    In addition to normal business risks, companies engaged in supplying
military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual
risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
regulations and other policies that may reflect military and political
developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs
and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design
improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating
increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of
forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly
sophisticated technical work and other factors characteristic of the industry.
Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly
development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices.

    We, like other government contractors, are subject to government
investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations. Although such regulations provide that a contractor may be
suspended or barred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the outcome of pending government investigations cannot be predicted with
certainty, we are not







currently aware of any such investigations that we expect, individually or in
the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we have a
proactive business compliance program designed to ensure compliance and sound
business practices.

BACKLOG

    Our total backlog at year-end 2000 and 1999 was $8,094 and $8,736 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $5,090 million of the 2000
backlog will be filled in 2001. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the
orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer's option.

COMPETITION

    We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and
service areas. Such competition is expected to continue in all geographic
regions. Competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and
services provided by us, and vary country by country. Depending on the
particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of
factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service,
performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition.
Brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important
competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable
price competition. Other competitive factors for certain products include
breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and
managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products
and services, we believe we are a significant factor in each of our major
product and service classes. However, certain of our products and services are
sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of
which have substantial financial resources and significant technological
capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive
component divisions of original equipment manufacturers.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    We are engaged in manufacturing, sales and/or research and development
mainly in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. U.S. exports and
foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations.

    Our international operations, including U.S. exports, are potentially
subject to a number of unique risks and limitations, including: fluctuations in
currency value; exchange control regulations; wage and price controls;
employment regulations; foreign investment laws; import and trade restrictions,
including embargoes; and governmental instability. However, we have limited
exposure in high risk countries and have taken action to mitigate such risks.

    Financial information related to geographic areas is included in 'Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 25 of Notes to Financial
Statements.

RAW MATERIALS

    The principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily
available. We experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase of
key raw materials and commodities in 2000. We are not dependent on any one
supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. However, we are highly
dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to
our customers. In addition, many major components and product equipment items
are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic
and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and performance surveillance
process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. While we
believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally
adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases
may have in the future. However, at present, we have no reason to believe a
shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2001.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES AND DISTRIBUTION RIGHTS

    Our business as a whole, and that of our strategic business units, are not
dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or
distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents,
patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many







years, which relate to many of our products or improvements thereon and are of
importance to our business. From time to time, new patents and trademarks are
obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others.
We also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and
services produced by other companies. In the judgment of management, such rights
are adequate for the conduct of the business being done by us. We believe that,
in the aggregate, the rights under such patents, trademarks and licenses are
generally important to our operations, but we do not consider that any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights
related to a specific process or product are of material importance in relation
to our total business. See Item 3 at page 10 of this Form 10-K for information
concerning litigation relating to patents in which we are involved.

    We have registered trademarks for a number of our products, including such
consumer brands as Honeywell, Prestone, FRAM, Anso and Autolite.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of
new products and processes, improvements in existing products and processes, and
the development of new uses of existing products.

    Research and development expense totaled $818, $909 and $876 million in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S.
Government) research and development activities amounted to an additional $560,
$682 and $718 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

ENVIRONMENT

    We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements regulating
the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment. It is our policy to comply with these
requirements and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices
and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with
our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in certain
of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar
businesses.

    We are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use or disposal
of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory
agencies. We believe that, as a general matter, our handling, manufacture, use
and disposal of such substances are in accord with environmental laws and
regulations. It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other
developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the
environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and
enforcement policies thereunder, could bring into question our handling,
manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.

    Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal
superfund law, and similar state laws, under which we have been designated as a
potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated
with various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency's superfund priority list. Although, under some court
interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party
might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it
is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we
have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-
party situations taken as a whole.

    Further information regarding environmental matters is included in 'Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.'

EMPLOYEES

    We have approximately 125,000 employees at December 31, 2000. Approximately
86,000 were located in the United States, and, of these employees, about 17%
were unionized employees represented by various local or national unions.







ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    We have over 1,000 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories,
sales offices and other facilities. The plants are generally located to serve
large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and labor
pools. The properties are generally maintained in good operating condition.
Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and other
business conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly
idle. The facilities, together with planned expansions, are expected to meet
our needs for the foreseeable future. We own or lease warehouses, railroad
cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data
processing equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs.
Our headquarters and administrative complex is located at Morristown, New
Jersey.

    Our principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are
as follows:



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    Details of Legal Proceedings are included in 'Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data' under the headings 'Litton Litigation', 'Shareowner
Litigation' and 'Other Matters' in Note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    At the Special Meeting of Shareowners of Honeywell held on January 10, 2001,
the proposed merger to be implemented pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of
Merger, dated as of October 22, 2000, between General Electric Company and
Honeywell International Inc. as set forth in Honeywell's proxy statement dated
December 4, 2000, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, was
approved with 592,168,926 votes cast FOR, 8,187,890 votes cast AGAINST,
6,826,897 abstentions and no broker non-votes.







                                    PART II.

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    Market and dividend information for Honeywell's common stock is included in
'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 26 of Notes to
Financial Statements.

    The number of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 2000 was
92,313.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.



- ---------

(1) In 2000, includes a net provision for asset impairments, repositioning,
    environmental and other charges and a gain on the sale of the TCAS product
    line of Honeywell Inc. resulting in a net after-tax charge of $634 million,
    or $0.78 per share. In 1999, includes merger, repositioning and other
    charges and gains on the sales of our Laminate Systems business and our
    investment in AMP common stock resulting in a net after-tax charge of $624
    million, or $0.78 per share. In 1998, includes repositioning charges, a gain
    on settlement of litigation claims and a tax benefit resulting from the
    favorable resolution of certain prior-year research and development tax
    claims resulting in a net after-tax charge of $4 million, with no impact on
    the per share amount. In 1997, includes repositioning and other charges,
    gains on the sales of our automotive Safety Restraints and certain
    Industrial Control businesses and a charge related to the 1996 sale of our
    automotive Braking Systems business resulting in a net after-tax charge of
    $5 million, with no impact on the per share amount. In 1996, includes
    repositioning and other charges and a gain on the sale of our automotive
    Braking Systems business resulting in a net after-tax gain of $9 million, or
    $0.01 per share.







ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



See 'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 24 of Notes to
Financial Statements for further information on our reportable segments.

    Net sales in 2000 were $25,023 million, an increase of $1,288 million, or
5 percent compared with 1999. Net sales in 1999 were $23,735 million, an
increase of $180 million, or 1 percent compared with 1998. The increase in sales
in both 2000 and 1999 is attributable to the following:



    Total segment profit in 2000 was $3,629 million, an increase of $358
million, or 11 percent compared with 1999. Segment profit margin for 2000 was
14.5 percent compared with 13.8 percent in 1999. The increase in segment profit
in 2000 was led by a significant improvement by the Aerospace Solutions and
Automation & Control segments and lower Corporate expenses. The increase was
partially offset by lower segment profit by the Performance Materials and Power
& Transportation Products segments. Total segment profit in 1999 was
$3,271 million, an increase of $359 million, or 12 percent compared with 1998.
Segment profit margin for 1999 was 13.8 percent compared with 12.4 percent in
1998. The increase in segment profit in 1999 was led by a substantial
improvement by the Aerospace Solutions segment with the Power & Transportation
Products and Automation & Control segments also contributing solid gains. Lower
Corporate expenses also contributed to the increase. The increase was partially
offset by a substantial decrease in segment profit by the Performance Materials
segment.

    Postretirement benefit plans contributed cost reductions of $282 and $61
million in 2000 and 1999, respectively, principally due to workforce reductions
and the funding status of our pension plans (described in 'Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements).
Future effects on operating results depend on economic conditions and investment
performance.







    A discussion of net sales and segment profit by reportable segment can be
found in the Review of Business Segments section below.

    (Gain) on sale of non-strategic businesses of $112 million in 2000
represents the pretax gain on the government-mandated divestiture of the TCAS
product line of Honeywell Inc. (the former Honeywell) following the merger of
AlliedSignal Inc. and Honeywell Inc. in December 1999. (Gain) on sale of
non-strategic businesses of $106 million in 1999 represents the pretax gain on
the sale of our Laminate Systems business. Refer to 'Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements
for further information.

    Equity in (income) loss of affiliated companies was a loss of $89 million in
2000 compared with income of $76 million in 1999. The decrease of $165 million
in equity income reflects that the current year includes a charge of
$136 million for costs associated with closing an affiliate's chemical
manufacturing operations and for an equity investee's customer claims. The prior
year also included a charge of $40 million related to the writedown of an equity
investment and an equity investee's severance actions. Refer to 'Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 5 of Notes to Financial
Statements for further discussion of the charges in both 2000 and 1999.
Excluding these charges in both periods, equity in (income) loss of affiliated
companies was income of $47 million in 2000, a decrease of $69 million compared
with 1999. This decrease was due mainly to lower earnings from our UOP process
technology (UOP) joint venture partially offset by the gain on the sale of our
interest in an automotive aftermarket joint venture. Equity in (income) loss of
affiliated companies was income of $76 million in 1999 compared with income of
$162 million in 1998. The decrease of $86 million resulted from the charge of
$40 million relating to the writedown of an equity investment and an equity
investee's severance actions as well as lower earnings from UOP.

    Other (income) expense, $57 million of income in 2000, decreased by
$250 million compared with 1999. The decrease principally reflects the 1999 net
gain of $268 million on our disposition of our investment in AMP Incorporated
(AMP) common stock. Refer to 'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data' in Note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements for further information.
Excluding this net gain, other (income) expense was $57 million of income in
2000, compared with $39 million of income in 1999. This increase in other income
of $18 million in 2000 was due principally to lower minority interest expense
and increased benefits from foreign exchange hedging. Other (income) expense,
$307 million of income in 1999, increased by $280 million compared with 1998.
The increase principally reflects the net gain of $268 million on our
disposition of our investment in AMP common stock.

    Interest and other financial charges of $481 million in 2000 increased by
$216 million, or 82 percent compared with 1999. The increase results from higher
average levels of debt during the current year due principally to the Pittway
acquisition and our share repurchase program, higher average interest rates and
the impact of tax interest expense. Interest and other financial charges of
$265 million in 1999 decreased by $10 million, or 4 percent compared with 1998.
The decrease resulted from lower interest rates and tax interest expense
somewhat offset by the effects of higher average debt outstanding during 1999.

    The effective tax rate was 30.8, 31.5 and 31.3 percent in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Refer to 'Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data' in Note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements for further
information.

    Net income in 2000 of $1,659 million, or $2.05 per share, was 8 percent
higher than 1999 net income of $1,541 million, or $1.90 per share. Net income in
2000 included the gain on the disposition of the TCAS product line of the former
Honeywell and asset impairments, repositioning, environmental and other charges.
Adjusted for these items, net income in 2000 was $634 million, or $0.78 per
share, higher than reported. Net income in 1999 included the gains on our
dispositions of our Laminate Systems business and our investment in AMP and
merger, repositioning and other charges. Adjusted for these items, net income in
1999 was $624 million, or $0.78 per share, higher than reported. Net income in
2000 increased by 6 percent compared with 1999 if both years are adjusted for
these items. Net income in 1999 of $1,541 million, or $1.90 per share, was
19 percent lower than 1998 net income of $1,903 million, or $2.34 per share. Net
income in 1998 included repositioning charges, litigation







settlements and a tax settlement. Net income in 1999 increased by 14 percent
compared with 1998 if both years are adjusted for these items.

REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS

    Aerospace Solutions sales in 2000 were $9,988 million, an increase of $80
million, or 1 percent compared with 1999. Higher sales to the aftermarket,
particularly repair and overhaul and the military, and increased original
equipment sales to business, regional and general aviation customers were
partially offset by lower original equipment sales to air transport
manufacturers and a decline in engineering services revenues. Sales also
decreased due to the effects of government-mandated divestitures in connection
with the merger of AlliedSignal and the former Honeywell. Aerospace Solutions
sales in 1999 were $9,908 million or basically flat compared with 1998. Sales of
avionics products were higher due principally to continued strong demand for
flight safety products. Sales to the aftermarket, particularly repair and
overhaul and the military, were also higher. The acquisition in 1998 of a
controlling interest in the Normalair-Garrett Ltd. environmental controls joint
venture also increased sales. This increase was offset by lower sales to air
transport and military original equipment manufacturers, and the effects of
divestitures and a restructuring of a government technical services contract.

    Aerospace Solutions segment profit in 2000 was $2,195 million, an increase
of $277 million, or 14 percent compared with 1999 due principally to cost
structure improvements, primarily from workforce and benefit cost reductions,
and merger-related savings. Increased sales of higher-margin aftermarket
products and services also contributed to the improvement in segment profit.
Aerospace Solutions segment profit in 1999 was $1,918 million, an increase of
$331 million, or 21 percent compared with 1998 due principally to increased
sales of higher-margin aftermarket and avionics products and cost structure
improvements primarily from workforce and benefit cost reductions.

    Automation & Control sales in 2000 were $7,384 million, an increase of
$1,269 million, or 21 percent compared with 1999. Sales for our Home and
Building Control business were substantially higher as increased sales in our
security products business, due to the acquisition of Pittway, were partially
offset by lower sales in our solutions and services business. Sales for our
Industrial Control business declined moderately as growth in our sensing and
control business was more than offset by lower sales in our industrial
automation and control business. Our industrial automation and control business
continues to be adversely affected by weakness in the hydrocarbon processing
industry. Sales for the segment were also adversely impacted by foreign currency
fluctuations due to the strong dollar. Automation & Control sales in 1999 were
$6,115 million, an increase of $158 million, or 3 percent compared with 1998.
Sales increased for our Home and Building Control business driven by growth in
our control products and building services, and security businesses.
Acquisitions also contributed to the increase partially offset by lower sales
from our energy retrofit and installed systems businesses. Sales for our
Industrial Control business were basically flat compared with 1998. Higher sales
due to acquisitions and growth in our sensing and control business were offset
by the effects of continued weakness in our industrial automation and control
business.

    Automation & Control segment profit in 2000 was $986 million, an increase of
$219 million, or 29 percent compared with 1999. Segment profit for both our Home
and Building Control and Industrial Control businesses improved primarily as a
result of lower costs due to workforce and benefit cost reductions and
merger-related savings. The acquisition of Pittway and other portfolio changes
also contributed to the improvement in segment profit. Automation & Control
segment profit in 1999 was $767 million, an increase of $62 million, or 9
percent compared with 1998. Segment profit for our Home and Building Control
business increased significantly due to improvement in our control products
business and the contraction of our lower-margin energy retrofit and installed
systems businesses. Cost savings from workforce reductions also contributed to
the improvement. This increase was offset somewhat by lower segment profit for
our Industrial Control business as growth in our higher-margin sensing and
control business and cost structure improvements were more than offset by the
effects of continued weakness in certain key end markets in our industrial
automation and control business.

    Performance Materials sales in 2000 were $4,055 million, an increase of $48
million, or 1 percent compared with 1999. Higher sales of advanced circuitry and
wafer-fabrication products by our







Electronic Materials business were largely offset by the effect of divestitures,
principally our Laminate Systems business. Performance Materials sales in 1999
were $4,007 million, a decrease of $162 million, or 4 percent compared with 1998
due principally to divestitures including our environmental catalyst, Laminate
Systems and phenol businesses. Lower sales for our carpet fibers business also
contributed to the decrease. This decrease was partially offset by higher sales
for our specialty films, engineering plastics and waxes businesses and increased
sales from the acquisitions of Johnson Matthey Electronics and Pharmaceutical
Fine Chemicals.

    Performance Materials segment profit in 2000 was $334 million, a decrease of
$105 million, or 24 percent compared with 1999. The decrease principally
reflects higher raw material costs in certain Performance Polymers and Chemicals
businesses and higher operating losses in our chip packaging and pharmaceutical
chemicals businesses. The decrease was partially offset by cost structure
improvements and price increases in certain Performance Polymers and Chemicals
businesses. Performance Materials segment profit in 1999 was $439 million, a
decrease of $195 million, or 31 percent compared with 1998. The decrease
principally reflects the effects of pricing pressures in our Performance
Polymers and Electronic Materials businesses and higher raw material costs in
certain Performance Polymers businesses. The impact of 1998 divestitures also
contributed to the decrease. The effect of improved sales volume for our
specialty films, engineering plastics and waxes businesses was a partial offset.

    Power & Transportation Products sales in 2000 were $3,527 million, a
decrease of $54 million, or 2 percent compared with 1999 due mainly to lower
sales for our Commercial Vehicle Systems and Friction Materials businesses.
Sales for our Commercial Vehicles Systems business were negatively impacted by
decreased heavy-duty truck builds. Sales for our Friction Materials business
were lower mainly due to foreign currency fluctuations. This decrease was
partially offset by higher sales for our Turbocharging Systems business as
continued strong world-wide demand more than offset the adverse impact of
foreign currency fluctuations. Power & Transportation Products sales in 1999
were $3,581 million, an increase of $194 million, or 6 percent compared with
1998. Sales for our Turbocharging Systems business increased significantly due
primarily to continued strong sales in Europe reflecting the turbodiesel's
increased penetration of the passenger car market. Sales for our Commercial
Vehicle Systems business also increased due principally to increased North
American truck builds. Sales for our Consumer Products Group business also
increased, led by higher sales of Prestone'r' products and FRAM'r' filters.
Lower sales for our Friction Materials business due to pricing pressures,
weakness in the European market and foreign currency fluctuations were a partial
offset.

    Power & Transportation Products segment profit in 2000 was $274 million, a
decrease of $48 million, or 15 percent compared with 1999. The decrease
primarily reflects costs associated with a product recall and lower sales in our
Commercial Vehicle Systems business, costs related to the ramp-up of our
Turbogenerator product line and costs associated with a supplier issue in our
Turbocharging Systems business. The decrease was partially offset by the effects
of cost structure improvements in our Friction Materials and Consumer Products
Group businesses and higher sales in our Turbocharging Systems business. Power &
Transportation Products segment profit in 1999 was $322 million, an increase of
$88 million, or 38 percent compared with 1998. The increase reflects higher
sales for our Turbocharging Systems, Commercial Vehicle Systems and Consumer
Products Group businesses. Cost structure improvements in these businesses,
materials procurement savings and workforce reductions also contributed to the
increase.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Total assets at December 31, 2000 were $25,175 million, an increase of
$1,648 million, or 7 percent from December 31, 1999. The increase relates
principally to our acquisition of Pittway. Total assets at December 31, 1999
were $23,527 million, an increase of $789 million, or 3 percent from
December 31, 1998.

    Cash provided by operating activities of $1,989 million during 2000
decreased by $385 million compared with 1999 due principally to spending related
to merger and repositioning actions, a decrease in working capital and higher
non-cash pension income. This decrease was partially offset by higher net
income, excluding one-time items as previously described, and lower taxes paid
on sales of







businesses and investments. Cash provided by operating activities of
$2,374 million during 1999 increased by $400 million compared with 1998 due
principally to higher net income, excluding one-time items as previously
described.

    Cash used for investing activities of $2,714 million during 2000 increased
by $2,423 million compared with 1999. The acquisition of Pittway, the fact that
the prior year included the net proceeds from our disposition of our investment
in AMP and lower proceeds from sales of businesses were principally responsible
for the increase. This increase was partially offset by lower capital spending.
Cash used for investing activities of $291 million during 1999 decreased by
$1,302 million compared with 1998. The decrease relates principally to the
proceeds from our disposition of our investment in AMP and an increase in
proceeds from sales of businesses, primarily Laminate Systems. This decrease was
partially offset by higher spending for acquisitions, mainly Johnson Matthey
Electronics, and the liquidation in 1998 of short-term investments.

    We continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our
portfolio as to strategic fit, market position and profit contribution in order
to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify operating units that will most
benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will
further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also
identify operating units that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based
on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These
operating units are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other
repositioning action subject to regulatory constraints.

    Capital expenditures were $853, $986 and $1,037 million in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively. Spending by the reportable segments and Corporate since 1998
is shown in 'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 24 of
Notes to Financial Statements. Our total capital expenditures in 2001 are
currently projected at approximately $1 billion. These expenditures are expected
to be financed principally by internally generated funds and are primarily
planned for expansion and cost reduction.

    Cash used for financing activities of $70 million during 2000 decreased by
$1,040 million compared with 1999 led principally by a decrease in stock
repurchases and higher net issuances of debt. During 2000, we repurchased 4.3
million shares of our common stock for $166 million in connection with our share
repurchase program. As a result of the pending merger with General Electric (see
Item 8. 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 4 of Notes to
Financial Statements), Honeywell rescinded its share repurchase program
effective October 21, 2000. Total debt of $5,623 million at December 31, 2000
was $557 million, or 11 percent higher than at December 31, 1999 due to the
acquisition of Pittway. Cash used for financing activities of $1,110 million
during 1999 increased by $1,002 million compared with 1998. The increase relates
principally to lower net issuances of debt partially offset by lower net stock
repurchases. Total debt of $5,066 million at year-end 1999 was $100 million, or
2 percent higher than at December 31, 1998.

    We maintain a $2 billion bank revolving credit facility which is comprised
of (a) a $1 billion Five-Year Credit Agreement; and, (b) a $1 billion 364-Day
Credit Agreement. The credit agreements were established for general corporate
purposes including support for the issuance of commercial paper. There was
$1,192 and $2,023 million of commercial paper outstanding at year-end 2000 and
1999, respectively. See 'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in
Note 16 of Notes to Financial Statements for details of long-term debt and a
discussion of the Credit Agreements.

    We believe that our available cash, committed credit lines, and access to
the public debt markets using debt securities and commercial paper, provide
adequate short-term and long-term liquidity.

MERGER AND REPOSITIONING CHARGES

    In 2000, we recognized a charge of $239 million related to announced global
workforce reductions in each of our reportable segments, costs to close a chip
package manufacturing plant and related workforce reductions in our Electronic
Materials business, and other asset impairments principally associated with the
completion of previously announced plant shut-downs in our Performance Polymers
and Chemicals business. The components of the charge included severance costs of
$151 million and asset impairments of $88 million. The workforce reductions
consisted of approximately 2,800 manufacturing and administrative positions and
are expected to be substantially completed by







the end of the second quarter of 2001. Asset impairments were principally
related to manufacturing plant and equipment held for sale and capable of being
taken out of service and actively marketed in the period of impairment. Also,
$46 million of accruals established in 1999, principally for severance, were
returned to income in 2000 due to higher than expected voluntary employee
attrition (approximately 650 positions) resulting in reduced severance
liabilities principally in our Automation & Control and Aerospace Solutions
reportable segments. We also recognized a charge of $99 million in equity in
(income) loss of affiliated companies for costs to close an affiliate's chemical
manufacturing operations. The components of the charge included severance costs
of $6 million, asset impairments of $53 million, and other environmental exit
costs and period expenses of $40 million.

    In 1999, upon completion of the merger between AlliedSignal and the former
Honeywell, we recognized a charge of $642 million for the cost of actions
designed to improve our combined competitiveness, productivity and future
profitability. The merger-related actions included the elimination of redundant
corporate offices and functional administrative overhead; elimination of
redundant and excess facilities and workforce in our combined aerospace
businesses; adoption of six sigma productivity initiatives at the former
Honeywell businesses; and, the transition to a global shared services model. The
components of the charge included severance costs of $342 million, asset
impairments of $108 million, other exit costs of $57 million and merger-related
transaction and period expenses of $135 million. Planned global workforce
reductions consisted of approximately 6,500 administrative and manufacturing
positions and are substantially complete. Asset impairments were principally
related to the elimination of redundant or excess corporate and aerospace
facilities and equipment. Other exit costs were related to lease terminations
and contract cancellation losses negotiated or subject to reasonable estimation
at year-end. Merger-related transaction and period expenses consisted of
investment banking and legal fees, former Honeywell deferred compensation vested
upon change in control and other direct merger-related expenses incurred in the
period the merger was completed. All merger-related actions are substantially
complete.

    In 1999, we also recognized a pretax charge of $321 million for the costs of
actions designed to reposition principally the AlliedSignal businesses for
improved productivity and future profitability. These repositioning actions
included the organizational realignment of our aerospace businesses to
strengthen market focus and simplify business structure; elimination of an
unprofitable product line, closing of a wax refinery and carbon materials plant
and rationalization of manufacturing capacity and infrastructure in our
Performance Polymers and Chemicals business; a reduction in the infrastructure
in our Turbocharging Systems business; elimination of two manufacturing
facilities in our Electronic Materials business; a plant closure and outsourcing
activity in our automotive Consumer Products Group business; and related and
general workforce reductions in all AlliedSignal businesses and our Industrial
Control business. The components of the charge included severance costs of
$140 million, asset impairments of $149 million, and other exit costs of
$32 million. Global workforce reductions consisted of approximately 5,100
manufacturing, administrative, and sales positions and are substantially
complete. Asset impairments were principally related to manufacturing plant and
equipment held for sale and capable of being taken out of service and actively
marketed in the period of impairment. Other exit costs principally consisted of
environmental exit costs associated with chemical plant shutdowns. All
repositioning actions, excluding environmental remediation, are substantially
complete.

    The merger and repositioning actions committed to in 2000 and 1999 generated
pretax savings of over $270 million in 2000 principally from planned workforce
reductions and facility consolidations. We expect these actions to generate
pretax savings of over $600 million in 2001 and $780 million in 2002. Cash
expenditures for severance, other exit costs, and future period expenses
necessary to execute these actions will exceed $500 million and were
principally incurred in 2000. Such expenditures have been funded through
operating cash flows, proceeds from government required divestitures resulting
from the merger of AlliedSignal and the former Honeywell and sale of merger-
related, excess or duplicate facilities and equipment.

    We are currently formulating a detailed plan to effect further actions
designed to improve our competitiveness, productivity and future profitability.
The cost of these actions will result in a charge against earnings in the first
quarter of 2001.







    In 1998, we recognized a charge of $54 million related to productivity
initiatives which included workforce reductions of 1,200 employees and facility
consolidations principally in our Home and Building Control and Industrial
Control businesses. These actions were completed by December 31, 1999, with
substantially all reserve spending occurring in 1999.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    We are subject to various federal, state and local government requirements
relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general
matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage and that our handling, manufacture,
use and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances are in accord with
environmental laws and regulations. However, mainly because of past operations
and operations of predecessor companies, we, like other companies engaged in
similar businesses, are a party to lawsuits and claims and have incurred
remedial response and voluntary cleanup costs associated with environmental
matters. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters
are likely to continue to arise in the future. We continually conduct studies,
individually at our owned sites, and jointly as a member of industry groups at
non-owned sites, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques to
address environmental matters. It is our policy to record appropriate
liabilities for such matters when environmental assessments are made or remedial
efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The timing of
these accruals is generally no later than the completion of feasibility studies.

    Remedial response and voluntary cleanup expenditures were $75, $78 and $77
million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and are currently estimated to be
approximately $69 million in 2001. We expect that we will be able to fund such
expenditures from operating cash flow. The timing of expenditures depends on a
number of factors, including regulatory approval of cleanup projects, remedial
techniques to be utilized and agreements with other parties.

    In 2000 we charged $110 million against pretax income for remedial response
and voluntary cleanup costs. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the recorded
liability for environmental matters was $386 and $349 million, respectively.
In addition, in 2000 and 1999 we incurred operating costs for ongoing
businesses of approximately $80 and $89 million, respectively, relating
to compliance with environmental regulations.

    Although we do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably
estimate the amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of
studies or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the ultimate
costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they may be
significant to our consolidated results of operations. We do not expect that
environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial position.

    See 'Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 22 of
Notes to Financial Statements for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies, including those related to environmental matters.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed
to market risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates,
which may adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We
minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations
through our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed
appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use
derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and
do not use leveraged derivative financial instruments. A summary of our
accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in 'Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 1 of Notes to Financial
Statements.

    Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates relates primarily
to our debt obligations. As described in 'Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data' in Notes 16 and 18 of Notes







to Financial Statements, we issue both fixed and variable rate debt and use
interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate movements and reduce
borrowing costs.

    Our exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates
arises from international financing activities between subsidiaries and foreign
currency denominated receivables, payables, and firm commitments arising from
international transactions. We attempt to have such transaction exposures hedged
with internal natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these
opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign currency forward and option
agreements with third parties. We also use derivative financial instruments to
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements on the translated U.S. dollar value
of the net income for a number of foreign subsidiaries. Foreign currency forward
and option agreements used to hedge net income are marked-to-market, with gains
or losses recognized immediately in income. Our principal foreign currency
exposures relate to the Belgian franc, the French franc, the German mark
(collectively the Euro countries), the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and
the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 2000, we held or had written foreign currency
forward and option agreements maturing through 2001.

    Derivative financial instruments expose us to counterparty credit risk for
nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency
exchange rates. We manage exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific
minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and procedures to
monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our counterparties are substantial
investment and commercial banks with significant experience using such
derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value
and cash flows of our derivative and other financial instruments considering
reasonably possible changes in interest and currency exchange rates and restrict
the use of derivative financial instruments to hedging activities.

    The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for
interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate
one-percentage-point increase in interest rates across all maturities and the
potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments
based on a 10 percent increase in U.S. dollar per local currency exchange rates
across all maturities at December 31, 2000 and 1999.



(1) Asset or (liability).

(2) Excludes capitalized leases.

(3) Increases in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts are
    substantially offset by changes in the fair value of net underlying hedged
    foreign currency transactions.

The above discussion of our procedures to monitor market risk and the estimated
changes in fair value resulting from our sensitivity analyses are
forward-looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market
conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these
estimated results due to actual developments in the global financial markets.
The methods used by us to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be
considered projections of future events.







OTHER MATTERS

LITIGATION

    Litton Litigation -- On March 13, 1990, Litton Systems, Inc. filed a legal
action against the former Honeywell in U.S. District Court, Central District of
California, Los Angeles, with claims that were subsequently split into two
separate cases. One alleges patent infringement under federal law for using an
ion-beam process to coat mirrors incorporated in the former Honeywell's ring
laser gyroscopes, and tortious interference under state law for interfering with
Litton's prospective advantage with customers and contractual relationships with
an inventor and his company, Ojai Research, Inc. The other case alleges
monopolization and attempted monopolization under federal antitrust laws by the
former Honeywell in the sale of inertial reference systems containing ring laser
gyroscopes into the commercial aircraft market. The former Honeywell generally
denied Litton's allegations in both cases. In the patent/tort case, the former
Honeywell also contested the validity as well as the infringement of the patent,
alleging, among other things, that the patent had been obtained by Litton's
inequitable conduct before the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

    In 1993 and 1995, trials were held in each case and juries initially awarded
Litton significant monetary damages. However, those verdicts were set aside by
the trial court judge who ordered, at a minimum, new trials on the issue of
damages in each case.

    Following cross-appeals by the parties of various issues to the Federal
Circuit and the U.S. Supreme Court in the patent/tort case, it was remanded to
the trial court for further legal and perhaps factual review with respect to
both liability and damages. On September 23, 1999, the trial court issued
dispositive rulings in the case, granting the former Honeywell's Motion for
Judgment as a Matter of Law and Summary Judgment on the Patent claims on various
grounds; granting the former Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law
on the state law claims on the grounds of insufficient evidence; and denying
Litton's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment. The trial court entered a final
judgment in Honeywell's favor on January 31, 2000, and Litton appealed that
judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On February 5,
2001, a three judge panel of the Federal Circuit court affirmed the trial
court's rulings granting the former Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter
of Law and Summary Judgment on the patent claims, agreeing that the former
Honeywell did not infringe. On the state law claims, the panel vacated the
jury's verdict in favor of Litton, reversed the trial court's grant of judgment
as a matter of law for the former Honeywell, and remanded the case to the trial
court for further proceedings under state law to resolve certain factual issues
that it held should have been submitted to the jury. Litton may now seek review
of this decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.

    A retrial of damages in the antitrust case commenced October 29, 1998, and
on December 9, 1998, a jury returned a verdict against Honeywell for actual
damages in the amount of $250 million. Following post trial motions, on
September 24, 1999, the trial court issued rulings denying the former
Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law and Motion for New Trial and
Remittitur as they related to Litton Systems, Inc., but granting the former
Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law as it relates to Litton
Systems, Canada, Limited. The net effect of these rulings was to reduce the
existing judgment against the former Honeywell of $750 million to $660 million,
plus attorney fees and costs of approximately $35 million. We believe that there
is no factual or legal basis for the magnitude of the jury's award and believe
that it should be overturned. We also believe we have very strong arguments that
the liability portion of the jury verdict in the first antitrust trial was
erroneous. Both parties have appealed this judgment, as to both liability and
damages, to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Execution of the
trial court's judgment is stayed pending resolution of the former Honeywell's
post-judgment motions and disposition of any appeals filed by the parties.

    Although it is not possible at this time to predict the result of any
further appeals in this case, potential does remain for an adverse outcome which
could be material to our financial position or results of operations. As a
result of the uncertainty regarding the outcome of this matter, no provision has
been made in the financial statements with respect to this contingent liability.

    For a detailed discussion of this litigation, see 'Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data' in Note 22 of Notes to the Financial
Statements.

    Shareowner Litigation -- Honeywell and seven of its officers were named as
defendants in several purported class action lawsuits filed in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey







(the Securities Law Complaints). The Securities Law Complaints principally
allege that the defendants violated federal securities laws by purportedly
making false and misleading statements and by failing to disclose material
information concerning Honeywell's financial performance, thereby allegedly
causing the value of Honeywell's stock to be artificially inflated. The
purported class period for which damages are sought is December 20, 1999 to
June 19, 2000.

    In addition, Honeywell, seven of its officers and its Board of Directors
have been named as defendants in a purported shareowner derivative action which
was filed on November 27, 2000 in the United States District Court for the
District of New Jersey (the Derivative Complaint). The Derivative Compliant
alleges a single claim for breach of fiduciary duty based on nearly identical
allegations to those set forth in the Securities Law Complaints.

    We believe that there is no factual or legal basis for the allegations in
the Securities Law Complaints and the Derivative Complaint. Although it is not
possible at this time to predict the result of these cases, we expect to
prevail. However, an adverse outcome could be material to our financial position
or results of operations. No provision has been made in our financial statements
with respect to this contingent liability.

EURO CONVERSION

    On January 1, 1999, certain member countries of the European Union
established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies and the
European Union's common currency (Euro). The transition period for the
introduction of the Euro is between January 1, 1999 and January 1, 2002. We have
identified and are ensuring that all Euro conversion compliance issues are
addressed and do not expect any adverse consequences.

SALES TO THE U.S. GOVERNMENT

    Sales to the U.S. Government, acting through its various departments and
agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $2,219, $2,383 and
$2,693 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. This included sales to the
Department of Defense (DoD), as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $1,548,
$1,415 and $1,658 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Sales to the DoD
accounted for 6.2, 6.0 and 7.0 percent of our total sales in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively. We are affected by U.S. Government budget constraints for
defense and space programs. U.S. defense spending increased slightly in 2000 and
is also expected to increase slightly in 2001.

BACKLOG

    Our total backlog at year-end 2000 and 1999 was $8,094 and $8,736 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $5,090 million of the 2000
backlog will be filled in 2001. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the
orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer's option.

INFLATION

    Highly competitive market conditions have minimized inflation's impact on
the selling prices of our products and the cost of our purchased materials. Cost
increases for materials and labor have generally been low, and productivity
enhancement programs, including Six Sigma initiatives, have largely offset any
impact.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, 'Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities', as amended (SFAS No. 133), is
effective for Honeywell as of January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133 requires all
derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities,
measured at fair value. The accounting for gains or losses resulting from
changes in values of such derivatives depends on the use of the derivative and
whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. We estimate that, at January 1, 2001,
the effect on our consolidated financial statements of adopting SFAS No. 133
will not be material.







ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Information relating to market risk is included in 'Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations' under
the caption 'Financial Instruments.'

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



   The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



   The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



   The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY



   The Notes to Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. is a diversified technology and manufacturing
company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control technologies for buildings, homes and industry, automotive products,
power generation systems, specialty chemicals, fibers, plastics and electronic
and advanced materials. As described in Note 2, Honeywell International Inc. was
formed upon the merger of AlliedSignal Inc. and Honeywell Inc. The following is
a description of the significant accounting policies of Honeywell International
Inc.

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION -- The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Honeywell International Inc. and all of its subsidiaries in
which a controlling interest is maintained. All intercompany transactions and
balances are eliminated in consolidation.

    INVENTORIES -- Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using
the first-in, first-out or the average cost method and the last-in, first-out
(LIFO) method for certain qualifying domestic inventories.

    INVESTMENTS -- Investments in affiliates over which we have a significant
influence, but not a controlling interest, are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting. Other investments are carried at market value, if readily
determinable, or cost.

    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT -- Property, plant and equipment are recorded
at cost less accumulated depreciation. For financial reporting, the
straight-line method of depreciation is used over the estimated useful lives of
10 to 40 years for buildings and improvements and 3 to 15 years for machinery
and equipment.

    GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS -- Goodwill represents the excess of
acquisition costs over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired and
is amortized on a straight-line basis over appropriate periods up to 40 years.
Goodwill, net, was $5,600 and $4,282 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Accumulated amortization was $974 and $804 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    Other intangible assets includes patents, trademarks, customer lists and
other items amortized on a straight-line basis over appropriate periods up to
24 years. Other intangible assets, net, were $298 and $378 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Accumulated amortization was $437 and
$398 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    LONG-LIVED ASSETS -- We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the
carrying amount of long-lived assets (including property, plant, and equipment,
goodwill and other intangible assets) whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully
recoverable. An impairment is assessed when the undiscounted expected future
cash flows derived from an asset are less than its carrying amount. Impairment
losses are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset
exceeds its fair value and are recognized in operating results. We also
continually evaluate the estimated useful lives of all long-lived assets and
periodically revise such estimates based on current events.

    SALES RECOGNITION -- Product and service sales are recognized when an
agreement of sale exists, product delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably
assured. Sales under long-term contracts in the Aerospace Solutions and
Automation & Control segments are recorded on a percentage-of-completion method
measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts and the
units-of-delivery basis for production-type contracts. Provisions for
anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in full when such losses
become evident.

    ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES -- Environmental expenditures that relate to
current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. Expenditures that
relate to an existing condition caused by past operations, and that do not
provide future benefits, are expensed as incurred. Liabilities are recorded when
environmental assessments are made or remedial efforts are probable and the
costs







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

can be reasonably estimated. The timing of these accruals is generally no later
than the completion of feasibility studies.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION -- Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries
operating outside the United States with a functional currency other than U.S.
dollars are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end exchange rates. Sales,
costs and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates effective during
the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as a
component of Accumulated Other Nonowner Changes in shareowners' equity. For
subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories and
property, plant and equipment, including related expenses, are remeasured at the
exchange rate in effect on the date the assets were acquired, while monetary
assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement
adjustments for these operations are included in net income.

    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS -- Interest rate swap, foreign currency forward and
option agreements are accounted for as a hedge of the related asset, liability,
firm commitment or anticipated transaction when designated and effective as a
hedge of such items. Agreements qualifying for hedge accounting are accounted
for as follows:

     Changes in the amount to be received or paid under interest rate swap
     agreements are recognized in Interest and Other Financial Charges.

     Gains and losses on foreign currency exchange contracts used to hedge
     assets, liabilities and net income are recognized in Other (Income)
     Expense.

     Gains and losses on foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge net
     investments in foreign subsidiaries are recognized in the Cumulative
     Foreign Exchange Translation Adjustment.

     Gains and losses on foreign currency exchange contracts used to hedge firm
     foreign currency commitments, and purchased foreign currency options used
     to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, are recognized in the
     measurement of the hedged transaction when the transaction occurs.

    Changes in the fair value of agreements not qualifying for hedge accounting
are recognized in Other (Income) Expense. Gains and losses on terminated
interest rate swap agreements are amortized over the shorter of the remaining
term of the agreement or the hedged liability.

    The carrying value of each agreement is reported in Accounts and Notes
Receivable, Other Current Assets, Accounts Payable or Accrued Liabilities, as
appropriate.

    INCOME TAXES -- Deferred tax liabilities or assets reflect temporary
differences between amounts of assets and liabilities for financial and tax
reporting. Such amounts are adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect changes in tax
rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A
valuation allowance is established for any deferred tax asset for which
realization is not likely.

    RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- Research and development costs for
company-sponsored research and development projects are expensed as incurred.
Such costs are classified as part of Cost of Goods Sold and were $818, $909 and
$876 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    EARNINGS PER SHARE -- Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is based
on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and all dilutive
potential common shares outstanding. All earnings per share data in this report
reflect earnings per share -- assuming dilution, unless otherwise indicated.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -- Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand
and on deposit and highly liquid, temporary cash investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.

    USE OF ESTIMATES -- The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and related
disclosures in the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

    NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT -- Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, 'Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities', as
amended (SFAS No. 133), is effective for Honeywell as of January 1, 2001. SFAS
No. 133 requires all derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet as assets
or liabilities, measured at fair value. The accounting for gains or losses
resulting from changes in values of such derivatives depends on the use of the
derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. We estimate that, at
January 1, 2001, the effect on our consolidated financial statements of adopting
SFAS No. 133 will not be material.

NOTE 2 -- ALLIEDSIGNAL - HONEYWELL MERGER

    On December 1, 1999, AlliedSignal Inc. (AlliedSignal) and Honeywell Inc.
(former Honeywell) completed a merger under an Agreement and Plan of Merger
(Merger Agreement) dated as of June 4, 1999. Under the Merger Agreement, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AlliedSignal merged with and into the former
Honeywell. As a result of the merger, the former Honeywell has become a
wholly-owned subsidiary of AlliedSignal. At the effective time of the merger
AlliedSignal was renamed Honeywell International Inc. (Honeywell).

    The former Honeywell shareowners received 1.875 shares of Honeywell common
stock for each share of the former Honeywell common stock with cash paid in lieu
of any fractional shares. As a result, former Honeywell shareowners received
approximately 241 million shares of Honeywell common stock valued at
approximately $15 billion at the merger date. In addition, outstanding former
Honeywell employee stock options were converted at the same exchange factor into
options to purchase approximately 10 million shares of Honeywell common stock.

    The merger qualified as a tax-free reorganization and was accounted for
under the pooling-of-interests accounting method. Accordingly, Honeywell's
consolidated financial statements have been restated for all periods prior to
the merger to include the results of operations, financial position and cash
flows of the former Honeywell as though it had always been a part of Honeywell.

    There were no material transactions between AlliedSignal and the former
Honeywell prior to the merger and there were no material adjustments to conform
the accounting policies of the combining companies.

    The net sales and net income previously reported by the separate companies
and the combined amounts presented in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of
Income are as follows:



    As described in Note 5, fees and expenses related to the merger and costs to
integrate the combined companies were expensed in the fourth quarter of 1999.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 3 -- ACQUISITIONS

    In addition to the pooling-of-interests transaction discussed in Note 2, we
acquired businesses for an aggregate cost of $2,646, $1,314 and $1,191 million
in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The following table presents information
about the more significant acquisitions:



- ---------

(1) Pittway Corporation designs, manufactures and distributes security and fire
    systems for homes and buildings.

(2) Johnson Matthey Electronics supplies wafer fabrication materials and
    interconnect products to the electronics and telecommunications industries.

(3) TriStar Aerospace Co. distributes fasteners, fastening systems and related
    hardware and provides customized inventory management services to original
    equipment manufacturers of aircraft and aircraft components, commercial
    airlines and aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities.

(4) Banner Aerospace distributes FAA-certified aircraft hardware principally to
    the commercial air transport and general aviation markets.

(5) Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals manufactures and distributes active and
    intermediate pharmaceutical chemicals.

    All the acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting, and accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired
businesses were recorded at their estimated fair values at the dates of
acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair values of the
net assets acquired, of $1,678, $678 and $883 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, was recorded as goodwill and is amortized over estimated useful
lives. In connection with these acquisitions the amounts recorded for
transaction costs and the costs of integrating the acquired businesses into
Honeywell were not material. The results of operations of the acquired
businesses have been included in the consolidated results of Honeywell from
their respective acquisition dates. The pro forma results for 2000, 1999 and
1998, assuming these acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year,
would not be materially different from reported results.

NOTE 4 -- HONEYWELL-GENERAL ELECTRIC MERGER

    On October 22, 2000, Honeywell and General Electric Company (GE) entered
into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) providing for a business
combination between Honeywell and GE. When the merger is effective, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of GE will be merged with and into Honeywell, and
Honeywell will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of GE and each issued and
outstanding share of common stock of Honeywell will be converted into the right
to receive 1.055 shares of common stock of GE, with fractional shares paid in
cash. The merger, which was approved by Honeywell shareowners on January 10,
2001, is subject to certain remaining conditions, which include review or
approval of the transaction by various governmental authorities. GE and
Honeywell are working with regulatory agencies to complete the required reviews
or obtain required approvals so that the transaction can close as early as
possible in 2001. The Merger Agreement provides for payment of a $1.35 billion
termination fee by Honeywell under certain circumstances. In connection with the
execution of the Merger Agreement, Honeywell and GE entered into a stock option
agreement







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

pursuant to which Honeywell granted to GE an option to purchase up to 19.9
percent of Honeywell's outstanding shares of common stock. The option is
exercisable in the same circumstances under which Honeywell is required to pay
to GE the $1.35 billion termination fee.

NOTE 5 -- MERGER, REPOSITIONING AND OTHER CHARGES

    In 2000, we recognized a charge of $239 million related to announced global
workforce reductions in each of our reportable segments, costs to close a chip
package manufacturing plant and related workforce reductions in our Electronic
Materials business, and other asset impairments principally associated with the
completion of previously announced plant shut-downs in our Performance Polymers
and Chemicals business. The components of the charge included severance costs of
$151 million and asset impairments of $88 million. The workforce reductions
consisted of approximately 2,800 manufacturing and administrative positions and
are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of
2001. Asset impairments were principally related to manufacturing plant and
equipment held for sale and capable of being taken out of service and actively
marketed in the period of impairment. Also, $46 million of accruals established
in 1999, principally for severance, were returned to income in 2000 due to
higher than expected voluntary employee attrition (approximately 650 positions)
resulting in reduced severance liabilities principally in our Automation &
Control and Aerospace Solutions reportable segments. We also recognized a charge
of $99 million in equity in (income) loss of affiliated companies for costs to
close an affiliate's chemical manufacturing operations. The components of the
charge included severance costs of $6 million, asset impairments of $53 million,
and other environmental exit costs and period expenses of $40 million.

    In 1999, upon completion of the merger between AlliedSignal and the former
Honeywell, we recognized a charge of $642 million for the cost of actions
designed to improve our combined competitiveness, productivity and future
profitability. The merger-related actions included the elimination of redundant
corporate offices and functional administrative overhead; elimination of
redundant and excess facilities and workforce in our combined aerospace
businesses; adoption of six sigma productivity initiatives at the former
Honeywell businesses; and, the transition to a global shared services model. The
components of the charge included severance costs of $342 million, asset
impairments of $108 million, other exit costs of $57 million and merger-related
transaction and period expenses of $135 million. Planned global workforce
reductions consisted of approximately 6,500 administrative and manufacturing
positions and are substantially complete. Asset impairments were principally
related to the elimination of redundant or excess corporate and aerospace
facilities and equipment. Other exit costs were related to lease terminations
and contract cancellation losses negotiated or subject to reasonable estimation
at year-end. Merger-related transaction and period expenses consisted of
investment banking and legal fees, former Honeywell deferred compensation vested
upon change in control and other direct merger-related expenses incurred in the
period the merger was completed. All merger-related actions are substantially
complete.

    In 1999, we also recognized a charge of $321 million for the cost of actions
designed to reposition principally the AlliedSignal businesses for improved
productivity and future profitability. These repositioning actions included the
organizational realignment of our aerospace businesses to strengthen market
focus and simplify business structure; elimination of an unprofitable product
line, closing of a wax refinery and carbon materials plant and rationalization
of manufacturing capacity and infrastructure in our Performance Polymers and
Chemicals business; a reduction in the infrastructure in our Turbocharging
Systems business; elimination of two manufacturing facilities in our Electronic
Materials business; a plant closure and outsourcing activity in our automotive
Consumer Products Group business; and related and general workforce reductions
in all AlliedSignal businesses and our Industrial Control business. The
components of the charge included severance costs of $140 million, asset
impairments of $149 million, and other exit costs of $32 million. Global
workforce reductions consisted of approximately 5,100 manufacturing,
administrative, and sales positions and are substantially complete. Asset
impairments were principally related to manufacturing plant and







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

equipment held for sale and capable of being taken out of service and actively
marketed in the period of impairment. Other exit costs principally consisted of
environmental exit costs associated with chemical plant shutdowns. All
repositioning actions, excluding environmental remediation, are substantially
complete.

    The following table summarizes the status of our total merger and
repositioning costs.



    In 2000, we identified certain business units and manufacturing facilities
as non-core to our business strategy. As a result of this assessment, we
implemented cost reduction initiatives and conducted discussions with potential
acquirers of these businesses and assets. As part of this process, we evaluated
the businesses and assets for possible impairment. As a result of our analysis,
we recognized impairment charges of $245 and $165 million principally related to
the write-down of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other identifiable
intangible assets of our Friction Materials business and a chemical
manufacturing facility, respectively. We recognized other charges consisting of
probable and reasonably estimable environmental liabilities of $87 million, and
contract claims, merger related period expenses, other contingencies, and
write-offs of tangible assets removed from service, including inventory,
totaling $140 million. In addition, we recognized a charge of $37 million in
equity in (income) loss of affiliated companies for costs principally related to
an equity investee's customer claims.

    In 1999, we recognized other charges consisting of losses on aerospace
engine maintenance contracts and a contract cancellation penalty totaling $45
million, customer and employee claims of $69 million, contract settlements and
contingent liabilities of $18 million, and other write-offs principally related
to tangible and intangible assets removed from service, including inventory, of
$152 million. We also recognized a $36 million charge resulting from an other
than temporary decline in value of an equity investment due to a significant
deterioration in market conditions and a $4 million charge related to an equity
investee's severance action involving approximately 220 employees. The
investee's severance action was completed by December 31, 1999.

    In 1998, we recognized a charge of $54 million related to productivity
initiatives which included workforce reductions and facility consolidations
principally in our Home and Building Control and Industrial Control businesses.
The components of the charge included severance costs of $46 million and other
exit costs of $8 million. Global workforce reductions included approximately
1,200 sales, marketing, manufacturing and other administrative positions. Other
exit costs consisted of lease termination penalties to consolidate field office
locations and other period costs incurred to rationalize product lines. These
actions were completed by December 31, 1999, with substantially all reserve
spending occurring in 1999.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The following table summarizes the pretax impact of total merger,
repositioning and other charges by reportable business segment.



    The following table summarizes the pretax distribution of total merger,
repositioning and other charges by income statement classification.



NOTE 6 -- GAIN ON SALE OF NON-STRATEGIC BUSINESSES

    In 2000, as a result of a government mandate in connection with the merger
of AlliedSignal and the former Honeywell, we sold the TCAS product line of the
former Honeywell. We received approximately $215 million in cash resulting in a
pretax gain of $112 million. The TCAS product line had annual sales of
approximately $100 million.

    In 1999, we sold our Laminate Systems business for approximately $425
million in cash resulting in a pretax gain of $106 million. The Laminate Systems
business had annual sales of about $400 million.

NOTE 7 -- OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE



    In April 1999, we reached an agreement with Tyco International Ltd. (Tyco)
and AMP Incorporated (AMP), settling AMP's claim to the gain we would realize on
the disposition of our investment in AMP common stock. We made a payment to AMP
of $50 million, and the parties released all claims that they had against each
other relating to AMP. Subsequently, we converted our investment in AMP common
stock into Tyco common stock and sold the Tyco common stock for net cash
proceeds of $1.2 billion resulting in a pretax gain of $268 million, net of the
settlement payment.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 8 -- INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHARGES



    Cash payments of interest during the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $573,
$328 and $426 million, respectively.

    The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial
paper outstanding at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was 6.60 and 5.97 percent,
respectively.

NOTE 9 -- TAXES ON INCOME

INCOME BEFORE TAXES ON INCOME



TAXES ON INCOME











                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



DEFERRED INCOME TAXES



DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (LIABILITIES)



    The amount of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards available at
December 31, 2000 was $111 million. The majority of these loss carryforwards
were generated by certain subsidiaries prior to their acquisition in 1997 and
have expiration dates through the year 2011. The use of pre-acquisition
operating losses is subject to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.
We do not anticipate that these limitations will affect utilization of the
carryforwards prior to their expiration. We also have foreign net operating
losses of $595 million which are available to reduce future income tax payments
in several countries, subject to varying expiration rules.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately $2.1 billion
of undistributed earnings of foreign affiliated companies, which are considered
to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of
tax that might be payable on the eventual remittance of such earnings.

    Cash payments of income taxes during the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 were
$442, $625 and $729 million, respectively.

NOTE 10 -- EARNINGS PER SHARE

    The following table sets forth the computations of basic and diluted
earnings per share:



    The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the effect of stock
options when the options' exercise prices exceed the average market price of the
common shares during the period. In 2000, 1999 and 1998, the number of stock
options not included in the computations was 14,563,673, 868,631 and 3,688,074,
respectively. These stock options were outstanding at the end of each of the
respective years.

NOTE 11 -- ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE



    Unbilled receivables related to long-term contracts were $423 and $359
million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and are generally billable
and collectible within one year.

    We are a party to agreements under which we can sell undivided interests in
designated pools of trade accounts receivable. At both December 31, 2000 and
1999, trade accounts receivable on the







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

Consolidated Balance Sheet have been reduced by approximately $500 million
reflecting such sales. We act as an agent for the purchasers in the collection
and administration of the receivables.

NOTE 12 -- INVENTORIES



    Inventories valued at LIFO amounted to $167 million at both December 31,
2000 and 1999. Had such LIFO inventories been valued at current costs, their
carrying values would have been approximately $129 and $109 million higher at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    Inventories related to long-term contracts, net of progress payments and
customer advances, were $220 and $271 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

NOTE 13 -- INVESTMENTS AND LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES



NOTE 14 -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT



NOTE 15 -- ACCRUED LIABILITIES









                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 16 -- LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS



    The schedule of principal payments on long-term debt is as follows:



    We maintain $2 billion of bank revolving credit facilities with a group of
banks which are comprised of: (a) a $1 billion Five-Year Credit Agreement and
(b) a $1 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement. The credit agreements are maintained
for general corporate purposes including support for the issuance of commercial
paper. We had no balance outstanding under either agreement at December 31,
2000.

    Neither of the credit agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends and
neither contain financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary
conditions or the occurrence of customary events of default contained in the
credit agreements would prevent any further borrowings and would generally
require the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under such credit
agreements. Such events of default include (a) non-payment of credit agreement
debt and interest thereon, (b) non-compliance with the terms of the credit
agreement covenants, (c) cross-default with other debt in certain circumstances,
(d) bankruptcy and (e) defaults upon obligations under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act. Additionally, each of the banks has the right to terminate
its commitment to lend under the credit agreements if any person or group
acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of our voting stock or,
during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of Honeywell at the
beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors
(the Board).







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Loans under the Five-Year Credit Agreement are required to be repaid no
later than December 2, 2004. We have agreed to pay a facility fee of 0.065
percent per annum on the aggregate commitment for the Five-Year Credit
Agreement, subject to increase or decrease in the event of changes in our
long-term debt ratings.

    Interest on borrowings under the Five-Year Credit Agreement would be
determined, at our option, by (a) an auction bidding procedure; (b) the highest
of the floating base rate of the agent bank, 0.5 percent above the average CD
rate, or 0.5 percent above the Federal funds rate or (c) the average
Eurocurrency rate of three reference banks plus 0.135 percent (applicable
margin). The applicable margin over the Eurocurrency rate on the Five-Year
Credit Agreement is subject to increase or decrease if our long-term debt
ratings change.

    The commitments under the 364-Day Credit Agreement terminate on November 29,
2001. Annually, prior to the Agreement's anniversary date, we may request that
the termination date of the 364-Day Credit Agreement be extended by 364 days. We
have agreed to pay a facility fee of 0.055 percent per annum on the aggregate
commitment for the 364-Day Credit Agreement.

    Interest on borrowings under the 364-Day Credit Agreement would be
determined, at our option, by (a) an auction bidding procedure; (b) the highest
of the floating base rate of the agent bank, 0.5 percent above the average CD
rate, or 0.5 percent above the Federal funds rate or (c) the average
Eurocurrency rate of three reference banks plus 0.145 percent (applicable
margin).

NOTE 17 -- LEASE COMMITMENTS

    Future minimum lease payments under operating leases having initial or
remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:



Rent expense was $306, $291 and $262 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

NOTE 18 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed
to market risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates,
which may adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We
minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations
through our normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed
appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use
derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and
do not use leveraged derivative financial instruments.

    Interest rate swap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk by
adjusting our ratio of fixed to floating interest rates payable on our
outstanding debt. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, interest rate swap agreements
effectively changed $1,600 and $850 million, respectively, of fixed rate debt at
an average rate of 7.1 and 6.6 percent, respectively, to LIBOR and commercial
paper based floating rate debt. Other interest rate swaps at December 31, 1999
effectively changed $250 million of LIBOR and commercial paper based floating
rate swaps and debt to fixed rate swaps and debt with an average fixed rate of
6.3 percent. Our interest rate swaps mature through the year 2007.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Our exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates
arises from international financing activities between subsidiaries, and foreign
currency denominated receivables, payables, and firm commitments arising from
international transactions. We attempt to have such transaction exposure hedged
with internal natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and, once these
opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign currency forward and option
agreements with third parties. We also use derivative financial instruments to
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements on the translated U.S. dollar value
of the net income for a number of foreign subsidiaries. Foreign currency forward
and option agreements used to hedge net income are marked-to-market, with gains
or losses recognized immediately in income. Our principal foreign currency
exposures relate to the Belgian franc, the French franc, the German mark
(collectively the Euro countries), the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and
the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 2000, we held or had written foreign currency
forward and option agreements maturing through 2001.

    Derivative financial instruments expose us to counterparty credit risk for
nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency
exchange rates. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through
specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and
procedures to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our counterparties are
substantial investment and commercial banks with significant experience using
such derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair
value and cash flows of our derivative and other financial instruments
considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency exchange rates
and restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to hedging activities.

    The values of our outstanding derivative financial instruments at
December 31, 2000 and 1999 follows:



- ---------

(1) The fair value of financial instruments is based on quoted market prices or
    other valuation techniques, as appropriate.

    Other financial instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet at amounts, which approximate fair values, are certain debt instruments.
The carrying value of long-term debt and related current maturities (excluding
capitalized leases of $30 and $36 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively) were $4,291 and $2,705 million and the fair values were $4,517 and
$2,702 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The fair values are
estimated based on the quoted market price for the issues (if traded) or based
on current rates offered to us for debt of the same remaining maturity and
characteristics.

NOTE 19 -- CAPITAL STOCK

    We are authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, with
a par value of one dollar. Common shareowners are entitled to receive such
dividends as may be declared by the Board, are entitled to one vote per share,
and are entitled, in the event of liquidation, to share ratably in all the
assets of Honeywell which are available for distribution to the common
shareowners. Common shareowners do not have preemptive or conversion rights.
Shares of common stock issued and







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

outstanding or held in the treasury are not liable to further calls or
assessments. There are no restrictions on us relative to dividends or the
repurchase or redemption of common stock.

    On July 21, 2000, our Board authorized a share repurchase program to
purchase up to 40 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in
privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other
factors. During 2000, we repurchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock for
$166 million in connection with our share repurchase program. As a result of the
pending merger with General Electric Company (See Note 4), Honeywell rescinded
its share repurchase program effective October 21, 2000.

    We are authorized to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock,
without par value, and can determine the number of shares of each series, and
the rights, preferences and limitations of each series. As of December 31, 2000,
there was no preferred stock outstanding.

NOTE 20 -- OTHER NONOWNER CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

    Total nonowner changes in shareowners' equity are included in the
Consolidated Statement of Shareowners' Equity. The components of Accumulated
Other Nonowner Changes are as follows:









                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The components of Accumulated Other Nonowner Changes are as follows:



NOTE 21 -- STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

    We have stock plans available to grant incentive stock options,
non-qualified stock options and stock appreciation rights to officers and
employees.

    FIXED STOCK OPTIONS -- The exercise price, term and other conditions
applicable to each option granted under the stock plans are generally determined
by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. The
options are granted at a price equal to the stock's fair market value on the
date of grant. The options generally become exercisable over a three-year period
and expire after ten years.

    The following table summarizes information about stock option activity for
the three years ended December 31, 2000:



    The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2000:



- ---------

(1) Average remaining contractual life in years.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

There were 30,927,704 and 33,530,799 options exercisable at weighted average
exercise prices of $27.21 and $20.38 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. There were 3,627,101 shares available for future grants under the
terms of our stock option plans at December 31, 2000.

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, 'Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,' (SFAS No. 123) requires that the cost of stock-based
compensation be measured using a fair value based method. As permitted by SFAS
No. 123, we elected to continue to account for stock-based compensation using
the intrinsic value based method under Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25, 'Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.' Accordingly, no compensation
cost has been recognized for our fixed stock option plans. The following table
sets forth pro forma information, including related assumptions, as if
compensation cost had been determined consistent with the requirements of SFAS
No. 123.



- ---------

(1) Estimated on date of grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model.

    RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS -- Restricted stock unit (RSU) awards entitle the
holder to receive one share of common stock for each unit when the units vest.
RSU's are issued to certain key employees as compensation and as incentives tied
directly to the achievement of certain performance objectives.

    RSU's issued were 1,374,640, 1,175,127 and 942,143 in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. There were 2,449,749, 2,657,561 and 3,117,736 RSU's outstanding,
with a weighted average grant date fair value per share of $47.33, $37.81 and
$28.84 at December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' PLAN -- We also have a Stock Plan for Non-Employee
Directors (Directors' Plan) under which restricted shares and options are
granted. Each new director receives a one-time grant of 3,000 shares of common
stock, subject to certain restrictions. In addition, each director will be
granted an option to purchase 2,000 shares of common stock each year on the date
of the annual meeting of shareowners. We have set aside 450,000 shares for
issuance under the Directors' Plan. Options generally become exercisable over a
three-year period and expire after ten years.

    EMPLOYEE STOCK MATCH PLANS -- We sponsor employee savings plans under which
we match, in the form of our common stock, certain eligible U.S. employee
savings plan contributions. Shares issued under the stock match plans were 3.9,
2.6 and 3.4 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, at a cost of $161,
$142 and $139 million, respectively.

NOTE 22 -- COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    LITTON LITIGATION -- On March 13, 1990, Litton Systems, Inc. (Litton) filed
a legal action against the former Honeywell in U.S. District Court, Central
District of California, Los Angeles (the trial court) with claims that were
subsequently split into two separate cases. One alleges patent infringement
under







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

federal law for using an ion-beam process to coat mirrors incorporated in the
former Honeywell's ring laser gyroscopes, and tortious interference under state
law for interfering with Litton's prospective advantage with customers and
contractual relationships with an inventor and his company, Ojai Research, Inc.
The other case alleges monopolization and attempted monopolization under federal
antitrust laws by the former Honeywell in the sale of inertial reference systems
containing ring laser gyroscopes into the commercial aircraft market. The former
Honeywell generally denied Litton's allegations in both cases. In the
patent/tort case, the former Honeywell also contested the validity as well as
the infringement of the patent, alleging, among other things, that the patent
had been obtained by Litton's inequitable conduct before the United States
Patent and Trademark Office.

    Patent/Tort Case -- U.S. District Court Judge Mariana Pfaelzer presided over
a three-month patent infringement and tortious interference trial in 1993. On
August 31, 1993, a jury returned a verdict in favor of Litton, awarding damages
against the former Honeywell in the amount of $1.2 billion on three claims. The
former Honeywell filed post-trial motions contesting the verdict and damage
award. On January 9, 1995, the trial court set them all aside, ruling, among
other things, that the Litton patent was invalid due to obviousness,
unenforceable because of Litton's inequitable conduct before the Patent and
Trademark Office, and in any case, not infringed by the former Honeywell's
current process. It further ruled that Litton's state tort claims were not
supported by sufficient evidence. The trial court also held that if its rulings
concerning liability were vacated or reversed on appeal, the former Honeywell
should at least be granted a new trial on the issue of damages because the
jury's award was inconsistent with the clear weight of the evidence and based
upon a speculative damage study.

    The trial court's rulings were appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, and on July 3, 1996, in a two to one split decision, a three
judge panel of that court reversed the trial court's rulings of patent
invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement, and also found the former
Honeywell to have violated California law by intentionally interfering with
Litton's consultant contracts and customer prospects. However, the panel upheld
two trial court rulings favorable to the former Honeywell, namely that the
former Honeywell was entitled to a new trial for damages on all claims, and also
to a grant of intervening patent rights which are to be defined and quantified
by the trial court. After unsuccessfully requesting a rehearing of the panel's
decision by the full Federal Circuit appellate court, the former Honeywell filed
a petition with the U.S. Supreme Court on November 26, 1996, seeking review of
the panel's decision. In the interim, Litton filed a motion and briefs with the
trial court seeking injunctive relief against the former Honeywell's commercial
ring laser gyroscope sales. After the former Honeywell and certain aircraft
manufacturers filed briefs and made oral arguments opposing the injunction, the
trial court denied Litton's motion on public interest grounds on December 23,
1996, and then scheduled the patent/tort damages retrial for May 6, 1997.

    On March 17, 1997, the U.S. Supreme Court granted the former Honeywell's
petition for review and vacated the July 3, 1996 Federal Circuit panel decision.
The case was remanded to the Federal Circuit panel for reconsideration in light
of a recent decision by the U.S. Supreme Court in the Warner-Jenkinson vs.
Hilton Davis case, which refined the law concerning patent infringement under
the doctrine of equivalents. On March 21, 1997, Litton filed a notice of appeal
to the Federal Circuit of the trial court's December 23, 1996 decision to deny
injunctive relief, but the Federal Circuit stayed any briefing or consideration
of that matter until such time as it completed its reconsideration of liability
issues ordered by the U.S. Supreme Court.

    The liability issues were argued before the same three judge Federal Circuit
panel on September 30, 1997. On April 7, 1998, the panel issued its decision:

    (i)  affirming the trial court's ruling that the former Honeywell's hollow
         cathode and RF ion-beam processes do not literally infringe the
         asserted claims of Litton's '849 reissue patent (Litton's patent);

   (ii)  vacating the trial court's ruling that the former Honeywell's RF
         ion-beam process does not infringe the asserted claims of Litton's
         patent under the doctrine of equivalents, but also







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

         vacating the jury's verdict on that issue and remanding that issue to
         the trial court for further proceedings in accordance with the
         Warner-Jenkinson decision;

  (iii)  vacating the jury's verdict that the former Honeywell's hollow
         cathode process infringes the asserted claims of Litton's patent
         under the doctrine of equivalents and remanding that issue to the
         trial court for further proceedings;

    (iv) reversing the trial court's ruling with respect to the torts of
         intentional interference with contractual relations and intentional
         interference with prospective economic advantage, but also vacating the
         jury's verdict on that issue, and remanding the issue to the trial
         court for further proceedings in accordance with California state law;

    (v)  affirming the trial court's grant of a new trial to the former
         Honeywell on damages for all claims, if necessary;

    (vi) affirming the trial court's order granting intervening rights to the
         former Honeywell in the patent claim;

   (vii) reversing the trial court's ruling that the asserted claims of
         Litton's patent were invalid due to obviousness and reinstating the
         jury's verdict on that issue; and

  (viii) reversing the trial court's determination that Litton had obtained
         Litton's patent through inequitable conduct.

    Litton's request for a rehearing of the panel's decision by the full Federal
Circuit court was denied and its appeal of the denial of an injunction was
dismissed. The case was remanded to the trial court for further legal and
perhaps factual review. The parties filed motions with the trial court to
dispose of the remanded issues as matters of law, which were argued before the
trial court on July 26, 1999. On September 23, 1999, the trial court issued
dispositive rulings in the case, granting the former Honeywell's Motion for
Judgment as a Matter of Law and Summary Judgment on the patent claims on various
grounds; granting the former Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law
on the state law claims on the grounds of insufficient evidence; and denying
Litton's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment. The trial court entered a final
judgment in Honeywell's favor on January 31, 2000, and Litton appealed that
judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

    On February 5, 2001, a three judge panel of the Federal Circuit court
affirmed the trial court's rulings granting the former Honeywell's Motion for
Judgment as a Matter of Law and Summary Judgment on the patent claims, agreeing
that the former Honeywell did not infringe. On the state law claims, the panel
vacated the jury's verdict in favor of Litton, reversed the trial court's grant
of judgment as a matter of law for the former Honeywell, and remanded the case
to the trial court for further proceedings under state law to resolve certain
factual issues that it held should have been submitted to the jury. Litton may
now attempt to seek review of this decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.

    When preparing for the patent/tort damages retrial that was scheduled for
May 1997, Litton had submitted a revised damage study to the trial court,
seeking damages as high as $1.9 billion. We do not expect that if Litton files
an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court it will ultimately succeed. We do not expect
that in the absence of any patent infringement Litton will be able to prove any
tortious conduct by the former Honeywell under state law that interfered with
Litton's contracts or business prospects. We believe that it is reasonably
possible that no damages will ultimately be awarded to Litton.

    Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether Litton will seek
review by the U.S. Supreme Court and whether such an appeal would succeed,
potential does remain for an adverse outcome which could be material to our
financial position or results of operations. We believe however, that any
potential award of damages for an adverse judgment of infringement or
interference should be based upon a reasonable royalty reflecting the value of
the ion-beam coating process, and further that such an award would not be
material to our financial position or results of operations. As a result of the
uncertainty regarding the outcome of this matter, no provision has been made in
the financial statements with respect to this contingent liability.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Antitrust Case -- Preparations for, and conduct of, the trial in the
antitrust case have generally followed the completion of comparable proceedings
in the patent/tort case. The antitrust trial did not begin until November 20,
1995. Judge Pfaelzer also presided over the trial, but it was held before a
different jury. At the close of evidence and before jury deliberations began,
the trial court dismissed, for failure of proof, Litton's contentions that the
former Honeywell had illegally monopolized and attempted to monopolize by:

    (i) engaging in below-cost predatory pricing;

   (ii) tying and bundling product offerings under packaged pricing;

  (iii) misrepresenting its products and disparaging Litton products; and

   (iv) acquiring the Sperry Avionics business in 1986.

    On February 2, 1996, the case was submitted to the jury on the remaining
allegations that the former Honeywell had illegally monopolized and attempted to
monopolize by:

    (i) entering into certain long-term exclusive dealing and penalty
        arrangements with aircraft manufacturers and airlines to exclude Litton
        from the commercial aircraft market, and

   (ii) failing to provide Litton with access to proprietary software used in
        the cockpits of certain business jets.

    On February 29, 1996, the jury returned a $234 million single damages
verdict against the former Honeywell for illegal monopolization, which verdict
would have been automatically trebled. On March 1, 1996, the jury indicated that
it was unable to reach a verdict on damages for the attempt to monopolize claim,
and a mistrial was declared as to that claim.

    The former Honeywell subsequently filed a motion for judgment as a matter of
law and a motion for a new trial, contending, among other things, that the
jury's partial verdict should be overturned because the former Honeywell was
prejudiced at trial, and Litton failed to prove essential elements of liability
or submit competent evidence to support its speculative, all-or-nothing
$298.5 million damage claim. Litton filed motions for entry of judgment and
injunctive relief. On July 24, 1996, the trial court denied the former
Honeywell's alternative motions for judgment as a matter of law or a complete
new trial, but concluded that Litton's damage study was seriously flawed and
granted the former Honeywell a retrial on damages only. The court also denied
Litton's two motions. At that time, Judge Pfaelzer was expected to conduct the
retrial of antitrust damages sometime following the retrial of patent/tort
damages. However, after the U.S. Supreme Court remanded the patent/tort case to
the Federal Circuit in March 1997, Litton moved to have the trial court
expeditiously schedule the antitrust damages retrial. In September 1997, the
trial court rejected that motion, indicating that it wished to know the outcome
of the current patent/tort appeal before scheduling retrials of any type.

    Following the April 7, 1998 Federal Circuit panel decision in the
patent/tort case, Litton again petitioned the trial court to schedule the
retrial of antitrust damages. The trial court tentatively scheduled the trial to
commence in the fourth quarter of 1998, and reopened limited discovery and other
pretrial preparations. Litton then filed another antitrust damage claim of
nearly $300 million.

    The damages only retrial began October 29, 1998 before Judge Pfaelzer and a
new jury. On December 9, 1998, the jury returned verdicts against the former
Honeywell totaling $250 million, $220 million of which is in favor of Litton and
$30 million of which is in favor of its sister corporation, Litton Systems,
Canada, Limited.

    On January 27, 1999, the court vacated its prior mistrial ruling with
respect to the attempt to monopolize claim and entered a treble damages judgment
in the total amount of $750 million for actual and attempted monopolization. The
former Honeywell filed appropriate post-judgment motions with the trial court
and Litton filed motions seeking to add substantial attorney's fees and costs to
the judgment. A hearing on the post-judgment motions was held before the trial
court on May 20, 1999. On September 24, 1999, the trial court issued rulings
denying the former Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law and Motion
for New Trial and Remittitur as they related to Litton Systems Inc., but







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

granting the former Honeywell's Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law as it
relates to Litton Systems, Canada, Limited. The net effect of these rulings was
to reduce the existing judgment against the former Honeywell of $750 million to
$660 million, plus attorney fees and costs of approximately $35 million. Both
parties have appealed the judgment, as to both liability and damages, to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Execution of the trial court's
judgment is stayed pending resolution of the former Honeywell's post-judgment
motions and the disposition of any appeals filed by the parties.

    We expect to obtain substantial relief from the current adverse judgment in
the antitrust case by an appeal to the Ninth Circuit, based upon sound
substantive and procedural legal grounds. We believe that there was no factual
or legal basis for the magnitude of the jury's award in the damages retrial and
that, as was the case in the first trial, the jury's award should be overturned.
We also believe there are serious questions concerning the identity and nature
of the business arrangements and conduct which were found by the first antitrust
jury in 1996 to be anti-competitive and damaging to Litton, and the verdict of
liability should be overturned as a matter of law.

    Although it is not possible at this time to predict the result of the
appeals, potential remains for an adverse outcome which could be material to our
financial position or results of operations. As a result of the uncertainty
regarding the outcome of this matter, no provision has been made in the
financial statements with respect to this contingent liability. We also believe
that it would be inappropriate for Litton to obtain recovery of the same
damages, e.g. losses it suffered due to the former Honeywell's sales of ring
laser gyroscope-based inertial systems to OEMs and airline customers, under
multiple legal theories, claims, and cases, and that eventually any duplicative
recovery would be eliminated from the antitrust and patent/tort cases.

    SHAREOWNER LITIGATION -- Honeywell and seven of its officers were named as
defendants in several purported class action lawsuits filed in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey (the Securities Law Complaints).
The Securities Law Complaints principally allege that the defendants violated
federal securities laws by purportedly making false and misleading statements
and by failing to disclose material information concerning Honeywell's financial
performance, thereby allegedly causing the value of Honeywell's stock to be
artifically inflated. The purported class period for which damages are sought is
December 20, 1999 to June 19, 2000.

    In addition, Honeywell, seven of its officers and its Board have been named
as defendants in a purported shareowner derivative action which was filed on
November 27, 2000 in the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey (the Derivative Complaint). The Derivative Complaint alleges a single
claim for breach of fiduciary duty based on nearly identical allegations to
those set forth in the Securities Law Complaints.

    We believe that there is no factual or legal basis for the allegations in
the Securities Law Complaints and the Derivative Complaint. Although it is not
possible at this time to predict the result of these cases, we expect to
prevail. However, an adverse outcome could be material to our financial position
or results of operations. No provision has been made in our financial statements
with respect to this contingent liability.

    ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS -- In accordance with our accounting policy (see
Note 1), liabilities are recorded for environmental matters generally no later
than the completion of feasibility studies. Although we do not currently possess
sufficient information to reasonably estimate the amounts of the liabilities to
be recorded upon future completion of studies, they may be significant to the
consolidated results of operations, but we do not expect that they will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. The liabilities
for environmental costs recorded in Accrued Liabilities and Other Liabilities at
December 31, 2000 were $171 and $215 million, respectively, and at December 31,
1999 were $104 and $245 million, respectively.

    OTHER MATTERS -- We are subject to a number of other lawsuits,
investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts) arising
out of the conduct of our business. With respect to all these other matters,
including those relating to commercial transactions, government contracts,
product







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

liability and non-environmental health and safety matters, while the ultimate
results of these lawsuits, investigations and claims cannot be determined, we do
not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

    We have issued or are a party to various direct and indirect guarantees,
bank letters of credit and customer guarantees. We do not expect that these
guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
operations or financial position.

NOTE 23 -- PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

    We maintain pension plans covering the majority of our employees and
retirees, and postretirement benefit plans for retirees that include health care
benefits and life insurance coverage. Pension benefits for substantially all
U.S. employees are provided through non-contributory, defined benefit pension
plans. Employees in foreign countries, who are not U.S. citizens, are covered by
various retirement benefit arrangements, some of which are considered to be
defined benefit pension plans for accounting purposes. Our retiree medical plans
cover U.S. and Canadian employees who retire with pension eligibility for
hospital, professional and other medical services. Most of the U.S. retiree
medical plans require deductibles and copayments and virtually all are
integrated with Medicare. Retiree contributions are generally required based on
coverage type, plan and Medicare eligibility. The retiree medical and life
insurance plans are not funded. Claims and expenses are paid from our general
assets.

    Net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs (income) include
the following components:









                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact, including the
benefit obligations, assets, funded status and actuarial assumptions associated
with our significant pension and other postretirement benefit plans.



    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for our pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets were $350, $310 and $44 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2000 and $608, $534 and $210 million, respectively, as of December
31, 1999.

    For measurement purposes, we assumed an annual health-care cost trend rate
of 6 percent for 2001 and beyond. Assumed health-care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for our retiree health-care plan. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have
the following effects:









                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 24 -- SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, 'Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information' (SFAS No. 131), establishes
standards for reporting information about operating segments. The following
information is provided in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 131 and
is consistent with how business results are reported internally to management.

    We globally manage our business operations through strategic business units
(SBUs) offering products and services to the aerospace, automation and control,
chemicals, and automotive industries. Based on similar economic and operational
characteristics, our SBUs are aggregated into the following four reportable
segments:

     Aerospace Solutions includes Engines & Systems (auxiliary power units;
     propulsion engines; environmental control systems; engine controls; and
     power generation systems); Aerospace Electronic Systems (flight safety
     communications, navigation, radar and surveillance systems; aircraft and
     airfield lighting; and advanced systems and instruments); Aerospace
     Services (repair and overhaul services; hardware; logistics; and management
     and technical services); and Aircraft Landing Systems (aircraft wheels and
     brakes).

     Automation & Control includes Home and Building Control (controls for
     heating, ventilating, humidification and air-conditioning equipment;
     energy-efficient lighting controls; home consumer products; security and
     fire alarm systems; home automation systems; and building management
     systems and services); and Industrial Control (systems for the automation
     and control of process operations; solid-state sensors for position,
     pressure, air flow, temperature and current; precision electromechanical
     switches; control products; advanced vision-based sensors; and fiber-optic
     components).

     Performance Materials includes Performance Polymers and Chemicals (fibers;
     plastic resins; specialty films; intermediate chemicals; fluorine-based
     products; pharmaceutical and agricultural chemicals; specialty waxes,
     adhesives and sealants; and process technology); and Electronic Materials
     (wafer fabrication materials and services; advanced circuits; and amorphous
     metals).

     Power & Transportation Products includes Transportation and Power Systems
     (turbochargers; charge-air coolers; portable power systems; air brake and
     anti-lock braking systems); the Consumer Products Group (car care products
     including anti-freeze, filters, spark plugs, cleaners, waxes and
     additives); and Friction Materials (friction material and related brake
     system components).

    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Note 1. We evaluate segment performance based on segment profit, which excludes
general corporate unallocated expenses, gains on sales of non-strategic
businesses, equity income, other (income) expense, interest and other financial
charges, merger, repositioning and other charges and other. We do not
disaggregate assets on a products and services basis for internal management
reporting and, therefore, such information is not presented. Intersegment sales
approximate market and are not significant. Reportable segment data were as
follows:







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



    A reconciliation of segment profit to consolidated income before taxes on
income is as follows:



- ---------

(1) Other represents the gain on our disposition of our investment in AMP common
    stock in 1999 and litigation settlements in 1998.







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

NOTE 25 -- GEOGRAPHIC AREAS -- FINANCIAL DATA



- ---------

(1) Sales between geographic areas approximate market and are not significant.
    Net sales are classified according to their country of origin. Included in
    United States net sales are export sales of $3,194, $3,715 and $3,824
    million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Our sales are not materially
    dependent on a single customer or a small group of customers.

(2) Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment, goodwill
    and other intangible assets.

NOTE 26 -- UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION


- ---------

 (1) Includes $96 million, after-tax $59 million, or $0.08 per share for
     repositioning charges. See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements for
     further information.

 (2) Includes an after-tax gain of $71 million, or $0.09 per share on the sale
     of the TCAS product line of the former Honeywell. See Note 6 of Notes to
     Financial Statements for further information.

 (3) Gross profit includes a $116 million charge for repositioning and other
     charges. Gross profit does not include an equity charge of $99 million for
     closing an affiliate's operations. The total charge is $215 million,
     after-tax $133 million, or $0.16 per share. See Note 5 of Notes to
     Financial Statements for further information.

 (4) Includes an impairment charge of $245 million, after-tax $198 million,
     $0.25 per share related to long-lived assets of our Friction Materials
     business. See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements for further
     information.

 (5) Gross profit includes a $373 million charge for asset impairment,
     environmental and other charges. Gross profit does not include an equity
     charge of $37 million related to an equity investee's customer claims. The
     total charge is $410 million, after-tax $315 million, or $0.39 per share.
     See Note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements for further information.

                                              (footnotes continued on next page)







                          HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

(footnotes continued from previous page)

 (6) Gross profit includes a $222 million charge for repositioning and other
     charges. Gross profit does not include an equity charge of $36 million
     related to the writedown of an equity investment. The total charge is $258
     million, after-tax $156 million, or $0.19 per share. See Note 5 of Notes to
     Financial Statements for further information.

 (7) Includes an after-tax gain of $161 million, or $0.20 per share on the
     disposition of our investment in AMP common stock. See Note 7 of Notes to
     Financial Statements for further information.

 (8) Gross profit includes a $103 million charge for repositioning and other
     charges. Gross profit does not include an equity charge of $4 million
     related to an equity investee's severance actions. The total charge is
     $107 million, after-tax $65 million, or $0.08 per share. See Note 5 of
     Notes to Financial Statements for further information.

 (9) Includes an after-tax gain of $59 million, or $0.07 per share on the sale
     of our Laminate Systems business. See Note 6 of Notes to Financial
     Statements for further information.

(10) Includes $622 million, after-tax $395 million, or $0.49 per share for
     repositioning and other charges. See Note 5 of Notes to Financial
     Statements for further information.

(11) Includes $300 million, after-tax $228 million, or $0.28 per share for
     repositioning and other charges. See Note 5 of Notes to Financial
     Statements for further information.

(12) Represents the historical dividends of AlliedSignal up to December 1, 1999
     and of Honeywell subsequent to that date.

(13) Represents the historical market price of AlliedSignal up to December 1,
     1999, and of Honeywell subsequent to that date. From composite tape-stock
     is primarily traded on the New York Stock Exchange.







                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREOWNERS OF
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

    In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 14(a)(1) on page 63 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Honeywell International Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We did not audit the financial statements of Honeywell Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary, which statements reflect total sales of $8,426.7
million for the year ended December 31, 1998. Those statements were audited by
other auditors whose report thereon has been furnished to us, and our opinion
expressed herein, insofar as it related to the amounts included for Honeywell
Inc., is based solely on the report of the other auditors. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, New Jersey
February 9, 2001







                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareowners of Honeywell Inc.:

    We have audited the statements of financial position of Honeywell Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998, and the related statements of income,
shareowners' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended (not separately
included herein). These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audit.

    We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Honeywell Inc. and subsidiaries at December
31, 1998 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year
then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 10, 1999







ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                                   Not Applicable

                                   PART III.

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information with respect to the directors and executive officers of
Honeywell International Inc. is set forth below:





















    The executive officers of Honeywell, listed above, are elected annually.
There are no family relationships among them.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

    The rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission require that we disclose
late filings of reports of stock ownership (and changes in stock ownership) by
our directors and executive officers. To the best of Honeywell's knowledge, all
of the filings for our executive officers and directors were made on a timely
basis in 2000 except that the sale of 33,422 shares by Donald Redlinger, a
former executive officer, was reported two weeks after the filing deadline.







ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

    The following table provides a summary of cash and non-cash compensation
with respect to Honeywell's Chief Executive Officer and the other four most
highly compensated officers of Honeywell.



- ---------

(1) The total number of units held and their value as of December 31, 2000 were
    as follows: Mr. Bonsignore, 375,000 ($17,742,188); Mr. Ferrari, 32,500
    ($1,537,656); Mr. Johnson, 30,000 ($1,419,375); Mr. Kreindler, 17,500
    ($827,969); Mr. Wallman, 17,500 ($827,969). Common stock dividend
    equivalents are payable on each unit. Restricted units will vest in
    increments of one-third each on April 1, 2001, 2002 and 2003 if Honeywell
    achieves specified operating margin targets.

(2) Amounts shown for 2000 consists of matching contributions made by Honeywell
    under the Savings Plan and Supplemental Savings Plan: for Mr. Bonsignore,
    $171,705; Mr. Johnson, $30,475; Mr. Kreindler, $38,269; and Mr. Wallman,
    $19,195; the value of life insurance premiums: for Mr. Bonsignore, $98,447;
    Mr. Johnson, $28,200; Mr. Kreindler, $21,300; above-market interest earned
    on deferred compensation: for Mr. Bonsignore, $22,589; Mr. Johnson, $238;
    Mr. Kreindler, $150,056; and Mr. Wallman, $191,847; the value of perquisites
    for Mr. Bonsignore, $63,810 which includes a $38,000 cash flexible
    perquisite payment and $22,730 for the value of personal use of company
    provided aircraft; and relocation allowances in connection with foreign
    assignments for Mr. Ferrari, $338,669.

(3) Mr. Bonsignore became an executive officer on December 1, 1999.

(4) Mr. Ferrari became an executive officer on December 1, 1999.

(5) Payment made in 2000 from the Long Term Performance Plan for Key
    Executives for the 1998 and 1999 performance period. The plan was
    discontinued at the time of the merger of AlliedSignal and the
    former Honeywell.







OPTION GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR

    The stock options included in the following table were all granted with an
exercise price equal to 100 percent of the fair market value of the common stock
on the date of grant.



- ---------

(1) Options are valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model which assumes
    a historic five-year average volatility of 32.25 percent, the average
    dividend yield for the three years ended December 31, 2000 (1.43 percent), a
    6.5 percent risk-free rate of return (based on the average zero coupon
    five-year U.S. Treasury note yield for the month of grant), and an expected
    option life of 5.0 years based on past experience. No adjustments are made
    for non-transferability or risk of forfeiture. Options will have no actual
    value unless, and then only to the extent that, the common stock price
    appreciates from the grant date to the exercise date. If the grant date
    present values are realized, total shareowner value will have appreciated by
    approximately $14.6 billion, and the value of the granted options reflected
    in the table will be less than 0.09 percent of the total shareowner
    appreciation.

(2) Vests 40 percent on January 1, 2001 and 30 percent on each of January 1,
    2002 and 2003.

AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR
AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES



EMPLOYMENT AND TERMINATION ARRANGEMENTS

    Mr. Bonsignore's employment agreement provides for his employment as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer through December 31, 2004. During the term
of the agreement, Mr. Bonsignore will have an annual salary of at least
$1,500,000 and will have an annual target bonus equal to 100 percent of base
salary. If his employment is terminated without good cause, he will be entitled
to a severance payment of three times his annual salary and bonus.

    When Mr. Ferrari became President of Honeywell Europe in 1992, he entered
into an employment agreement with Honeywell Europe that provided for certain
salary and benefits in accordance with Belgian law. Mr. Ferrari's current
position is considered to be an international assignment under his Belgian
employment contract; therefore, the contract remains in effect until his
retirement from Honeywell. As an executive of Honeywell Inc., Mr. Ferrari was
also a party to a change of control agreement, which remains in effect until
September 2002. Under this agreement, he is entitled to a lump sum payment of
three times his salary and target incentive bonus if either his employment is
terminated (other than for cause) or his duties are diminished.

    Under the Severance Plan for Senior Executives, the current executive
officers named in the Summary Compensation Table (other than Messrs. Bonsignore
and Ferrari) would be entitled to







payments equivalent to base salary and annual incentive bonus (and continuation
of certain benefits, such as group life and medical insurance coverage) for a
period of 36 months if their employment is terminated other than for 'gross
cause' (which includes fraud and criminal conduct). The payments would be made
in a lump sum following a change in control. The Severance Plan provides for an
additional payment sufficient to eliminate the effect of any applicable excise
tax on severance payments in excess of an amount determined under Section 280G
of the Internal Revenue Code. Payments subject to the excise tax would not be
deductible by Honeywell.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS

    The following table illustrates the estimated annual pension benefits which
would be provided on retirement at age 65 under Honeywell's retirement program
and an unfunded supplemental retirement plan, after applicable deductions for
Social Security benefits, to salaried employees having specified average annual
remuneration and years of service.



    The benefit amounts shown in the Pension Table are computed on a straight
life annuity basis. At January 1, 2001, the following individuals had the
indicated number of years of credited service for pension purposes: Mr.
Bonsignore, 31; Mr. Johnson, 6; Mr. Kreindler, 9; and Mr. Wallman, 5. Mr.
Ferrari has 40 years of service, but is covered under a separate Belgian pension
arrangement described below.

    The amounts in the Salary and Bonus columns of the Summary Compensation
Table would be included in computing remuneration for pension purposes as well
as any payroll based reward and recognition awards. Average annual remuneration
under the Pension Plan is calculated based on the highest paid 60 consecutive
months of an employee's last 120 months of employment.

    Under his employment agreement, Mr. Bonsignore is entitled to receive during
his lifetime, commencing on retirement, Honeywell facilities and services
comparable to those provided prior to his retirement, and a retirement benefit
equivalent to 60 percent of final average compensation (based on his highest
three years of salary and bonus) payable annually for life. Benefits under his
agreement will be reduced by any retirement benefits payable under Honeywell's
retirement and supplemental retirement plans.

    Mr. Ferrari is covered by the Belgian pension arrangement, which provides a
benefit of 55 percent of final average compensation after 30 years of service,
through a combination of the plan and equivalent pension plans in other
countries. This arrangement also provides for an additional benefit of 15
percent of final average compensation which is funded by contributions from Mr.
Ferrari.

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

    Directors who are employees of Honeywell receive no compensation for service
on the Board. Each non-employee director receives an annual Board retainer of
$65,000, of which $20,000 is automatically credited to the director's account in
the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of common
stock equivalents (which are only payable after termination of Board service).
They also receive a fee of $2,000 for Board meetings attended on any day (ten
during 2000), an annual retainer of $7,000 for each Board Committee served, and
an additional Committee Chair retainer of $5,000 for the Audit and Management
Development and Compensation Committees and $3,000 for all other Board
Committees. While no fees are generally paid for attending Committee meetings, a
$1,000 fee is paid for attendance at a Committee meeting, or other extraordinary
meeting related to Board business which occurs apart from a Board meeting.
Non-employee directors are also







provided with $350,000 in business travel accident insurance and are eligible to
elect $100,000 in term life insurance and medical and dental coverage for
themselves and their eligible dependents.

    Directors may elect to defer, until a specified calendar year or retirement
from the Board, all or any portion of their annual retainers and fees that are
not automatically deferred and to have such compensation credited to their
account in the Deferred Compensation Plan. Amounts credited either accrue
interest (11 percent for 2001) or are valued as if invested in common stock
equivalents or one of the other funds available to participants in our savings
plan. Amounts deferred in a common stock account earn amounts equivalent to
dividends. Upon a change of control, a director will be entitled to a lump-sum
payment of all deferred amounts.

    Under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, each new director receives
a one-time grant of 3,000 shares of common stock, which are subject to transfer
restrictions until the director's service terminates with the consent of a
majority of the Board, provided termination occurs at or after 65. During the
restricted period, the director is entitled to one-fifth of the shares granted
for each year of service (up to five). However, the shares will be forfeited if
the director's service terminates (other than for death or disability) prior to
the end of the restricted period. The Plan also provides for an annual grant to
each director of options to purchase 2,000 shares of common stock at 100 percent
of the fair market value on the date of grant. Option grants vest in cumulative
installments of 40 percent on April 1 of the year following the grant date and
an additional 30 percent on April 1 of each of the next two years.

MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

    The primary functions of the Management Development and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors are to review and recommend the compensation
arrangements for officers; approve compensation arrangements for other senior
level employees; consider matters related to management development and
succession and recommend individuals for election as officers; and review or
take such other action as may be required in connection with the bonus, stock
and other benefit plans of Honeywell and its subsidiaries. The members of the
Committee are: Robert P. Luciano (Chair), Hans W. Becherer, Gordon M. Bethune,
Bruce Karatz, Ivan G. Seidenberg and John R. Stafford.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

STOCK OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS

    As of December 31, 2000, State Street Bank and Trust Company, 225 Franklin
Street, Boston, Massachusetts, 02101 held 69,227,941 shares or approximately 8.6
percent of the outstanding common stock as trustee of certain of Honeywell's
savings plans. Under the terms of the plans, State Street is required to vote
shares attributable to any participant in accordance with instructions received
from the participant and to vote all shares for which it does not receive
instructions in the same ratio as the shares for which instructions were
received. State Street disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares referred to
above. State Street also held 15,430,034 shares, or approximately 1.9 percent of
the outstanding common stock in various other fiduciary capacities.

    As of December 31, 2000, AXA or its affiliates, including the Mutuelles AXA,
AXA Financial, Inc., Alliance Capital Management L.P. and The Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States beneficially owned 42,369,312 shares of
common stock (including 379,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of
options), representing approximately 5.2 percent of the outstanding common
stock. The address of AXA is 25, Avenue Matignon, 75008 Paris, France, and the
address of AXA Financial, Inc. is 1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New
York 10104.

STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

    In general, 'beneficial ownership' includes those shares a director or
executive officer has the power to vote or transfer, and stock options that are
exercisable currently or within 60 days. On December 31, 2000, the directors and
executive officers of Honeywell beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 2,968,499
shares of common stock which are included in the table below. Directors and
executive officers also have interests in stock-based units under Honeywell's
plans. While these units







may not be voted or transferred, we have included them in the table below as
they represent the total economic interest of the directors and executive
officers in Honeywell stock.



- ---------

(1) The total beneficial ownership for any individual is less than 0.5 percent,
    and the total for the group is less than 0.9 percent, of the shares of
    common stock outstanding.

(2) Includes the following number of shares or share-equivalents in deferred
    accounts, as to which no voting or investment power exists: Mr. Becherer,
    14,076; Mr. Bethune, 436; Mr. Bonsignore, 2,476; Mr. Carter, 3,447;
    Mr. Chico Pardo, 2,279; Ms. Fudge, 1,821; Mr. Howard, 1,338; Mr. Johnson,
    515; Mr. Karatz, 2,289; Mr. Kreindler, 21,449; Mr. Luciano, 4,961;
    Mr. Palmer, 4,704; Mr. Seidenberg, 8,286; Mr. Stafford, 9,694; Mr. Wallman,
    71,445; Mr. Wright, 2,446; and all directors and executive officers as a
    group, 152,175.

(3) Includes shares which the following have the right to acquire within 60 days
    through the exercise of vested stock options: Mr. Becherer, 10,200;
    Mr. Bonsignore, 1,490,986; Mr. Carter, 800; Mr. Ferrari, 168,626;
    Ms. Fudge, 10,200; Mr. Johnson, 120,000; Mr. Kreindler, 240,000;
    Mr. Luciano, 10,200; Mr. Palmer, 6,200; Mr. Seidenberg, 8,200;
    Mr. Stafford, 10,200; Mr. Wallman, 364,000; and all directors and executive
    officers as a group, 2,599,612.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    In connection with certain tax planning, we secured supplemental retirement
payments for three executives by funding them through an escrow arrangement.
The amounts funded through an escrow arrangement in 2000 were $4,000,000 for
Mr. Bonsignore, $2,100,000 for Mr. Wallman, and $1,400,000 for Dr. Barry C.
Johnson. By securing the payments, the executive's tax liability was
accelerated. We loaned each executive an amount equal to the related
withholding tax obligation. We will also loan each executive additional amounts
as necessary to cover the balance of taxes related to securing the payments.

    The loans bear interest at 5.53 percent compounded semiannually and are due
December 31, 2004. On December 31, 2000, the amount of loans outstanding totaled
$2,977,590, of which $1,635,200 was loaned to Mr. Bonsignore, $765,450 to
Mr. Wallman and $576,940 to Dr. Johnson.







                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K



(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules
    The two financial statement schedules applicable to us have been omitted
because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.

(a)(3.) Exhibits
    See the Exhibit Index to this Form 10-K Annual Report. The following
exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this Form 10-K Annual
Report:



(b) Reports on Form 8-K

    During the three months ended December 31, 2000, Current Report on Form 8-K
was filed on October 25 reporting that Honeywell and General Electric Company
entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger.







                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

March 30, 2001                              By:      /s/ PHILIP M. PALAZZARI
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                    Philip M. Palazzari
                                               Vice President and Controller

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:



March 30, 2001










                                 EXHIBIT INDEX



















- ---------

    The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements.



                          STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES
                          ------------------------

The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as ................ 'r'
Characters normally expressed as subscript shall be preceded by ...... [u]








