
10-K405
ALLIEDSIGNAL INC. 10-K405








________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   For the transition period from     to
 
                         Commission file number 1-8974
 
                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (973)455-2000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
- - ------------
 
*  The common stock is also listed for trading on the London stock exchange.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [x]
 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $21.7 billion at January 31, 1999.
 
There were 557,130,797 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 1999.
 
                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
         Part I and II: Annual Report to Shareowners for the Year Ended December
31, 1998.
        Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held
April 26, 1999.
 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________






                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
 

 

 
- - ------------
 
*  To be included in a definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
   1998.
 


NOTE:  AlliedSignal Inc. is sometimes referred to in this Report as the
Registrant and as the Company, and AlliedSignal Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as the Company, as the context may
require.
 
                                

 
- - ------------
 
 (a) These items are omitted since the Registrant will file with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
     14A involving the election of directors not later than 120 days after
     December 31, 1998. Certain other information relating to the Executive
     Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15 and 16 of this Report.
 


                                    PART I.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
     AlliedSignal Inc. (with its consolidated subsidiaries referred to in this
Report as the Company) was organized in the State of Delaware in 1985. The
Company is the successor to Allied Corporation, which was organized in the State
of New York in 1920.
 
MAJOR BUSINESSES
 
     AlliedSignal Inc. is an advanced technology and manufacturing company
serving customers worldwide with aerospace and automotive products, chemicals,
fibers, plastics and advanced materials. The Company's operations are conducted
by eleven strategic business units, which have been aggregated under five
reportable segments: Aerospace Systems, Specialty Chemicals & Electronic
Solutions, Turbine Technologies, Performance Polymers and Transportation
Products.
 
     Following is a description of the Company's strategic business units:
 

 
 


 

(1) Aerospace-related businesses have organized their marketing, sales, service,
    technical support, repair and overhaul and distribution capabilities into
    this business unit.
 
 


 

 
 


 

 
 


 

 
 


 

 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
     Activity in Aerospace Systems included the acquisition, in January 1998, of
substantially all the assets of Banner Aerospace, distributors of FAA-certified
aircraft hardware, for common stock valued at approximately $350 million. The
acquired operations have annual sales of about $250 million, principally to
commercial air transport and general aviation customers. In June 1998, the
Company acquired a controlling interest in the Normalair-Garrett Ltd
environmental controls joint venture. The acquired operations have annual sales
of approximately $240 million. Several smaller acquisitions were also completed.
In the first quarter of 1998, the Company sold its underwater detection systems
business to L-3 Communications Corporation for approximately $70 million in cash
and, in September 1998, the Company sold its communications systems business to
Raytheon Company for approximately $60 million in cash. The divested businesses
had annual sales of about $190 million. Aerospace Systems also strengthened its
leadership in flight safety products by winning several major contracts for its
new FAA-approved Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System which gives pilots
advance warning time of a collision with terrain.
 
     In June 1998, the Company acquired Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals S.A. (PFC)
of Lugano, Switzerland, for approximately $390 million, including assumed
liabilities, as part of the Specialty Chemicals & Electronic Solutions segment.
PFC manufactures and distributes active and intermediate 
 


pharmaceutical chemicals and had sales of about $110 million in 1997. Several
other smaller acquisitions were also completed during the year. In April 1998,
the European laminates business of Electronic Materials was sold.

   Turbine Technologies began development of the AS900, its first new turbofan
engine platform in more than 20 years, for the rapidly growing general and
regional aviation market. It is scheduled for FAA certification in the first
quarter of 2001. Turbocharging Systems is entering the small-scale power
generation business to serve a growing demand for low cost, highly reliable and
efficient independent power units. International distribution alliances for the
power systems were formed in 1998. Initial product shipments are scheduled for
mid-1999.
 
     Performance Polymers formed a joint venture with DSM Chemicals North
America to construct and operate an $80 million recycling facility to convert
nylon carpet into caprolactam, the raw material used in carpeting and automobile
parts. Performance Polymers exited its European carpet fibers business and a
portion of the North American textile business in 1998. Performance Polymers
also sold its phenol facility to Sun Company, Inc. in 1998, and as part of the
sale the Company retained a phenol supply arrangement for its nylon business.
 
     In Transportation Products, Truck Brake Systems and its partner,
Knorr-Bremse AG, established a joint venture company with Robert Bosch GmbH
(Bosch) combining their European commercial heavy-duty brake systems businesses.
Bosch contributed its commercial vehicle brake product division to the European
joint venture, in exchange for a 20% interest in the joint venture. The Company
will also have a 20% ownership interest in the European joint venture.
Knorr-Bremse, AlliedSignal's joint venture partner since 1993, will have the
remaining 60% interest.
 
     In June 1998, the Company sold its interest in its automotive catalyst
business to a unit of General Motors Corporation for approximately $50 million
in cash. This business had annual sales of about $250 million.
 
     In 1998, the Company was unsuccessful in its $10 billion unsolicited offer
for AMP Incorporated (AMP), a manufacturer of electrical connection devices. In
connection with this transaction, the Company acquired approximately a 9%
interest in AMP for $890 million. The fair market value of the investment at
December 31, 1998 was $1,041 million.
 
     In January 1999, the Company announced that it will commence realignment of
its aerospace businesses in the first quarter to strengthen their market and
customer focus, simplify the business structure and reduce costs.
 
U.S. GOVERNMENT SALES
 
     Sales to the U.S. Government (primarily aerospace-related), acting through
its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to
$1,891 million for 1998 and $1,851 million for 1997, which includes sales to the
U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) of $1,366 million in 1998 and $1,338 million in
1997. Approximately 58% and 59% of sales to the U.S. Government in 1998 and
1997, respectively, were made under fixed-price contracts in which the Company
agrees to perform a contract for a fixed price, retaining any benefits of cost
savings and absorbing any cost overruns. The Company is affected by U.S.
Government budget restraints for defense and space programs. After years of
decline, U.S. defense spending increased slightly in 1998 and is expected to
increase over the next several years.
 
     In addition to normal business risks, companies engaged in supplying
military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual
risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
regulations and other policies that may reflect military and political
developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs
and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design
improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating
increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of
forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly
sophisticated technical work and other factors characteristic of the industry.
Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly
development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices.
  
 



     The Company, like other government contractors, is subject to government
investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations. Although such regulations provide that a contractor may be
suspended or debarred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the outcome of pending government investigations cannot be predicted
with certainty, management is not currently aware of any such investigations
that it expects, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on the Company. In addition, the Company has a proactive business
compliance program designed to ensure compliance and sound business practices.
 
BACKLOG
 
     Orders for certain aerospace-related products sold to general and
commercial aviation customers mainly consist of relatively short-term and
frequently renewed commitments. Government procurement agencies generally issue
contracts covering relatively long periods of time. Total backlog (principally
for aerospace-related products and services) for both government and commercial
contracts was $5,012 million at December 31, 1998 and $5,087 million at
December 31, 1997 of which U.S. and foreign government orders were $1,511
million and $1,908 million for the respective years. The Company anticipates
that approximately $3,553 million of the total 1998 backlog will be filled
during 1999.
 
     Backlog information may not be an accurate indicator of future sales.
Government contracts and, in general, subcontracts thereunder are terminable, in
whole or in part, for default or for convenience by the government or the higher
level contractor if deemed in their best interest. Upon termination for
convenience, the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable
costs and to an allowance for profit. However, if the contract is terminated
because of the contractor's default, the contractor may not recover all of its
costs and may be liable for any excess costs incurred by the government in
procuring undelivered items from another source.
 
     In addition to the right of the government to terminate, government
contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional
appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even
though contract performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the
outset of a program, the prime contract is usually partially funded and
additional funds are normally only appropriated to the contract by Congress in
future years. Fixed-price subcontracts are normally fully funded, but are
subject to convenience termination if the prime contract is not funded.
 
SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 23 (Segment Financial Data) of Notes to Financial Statements in the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 24 (Geographic Areas -- Financial Data) of Notes to Financial
Statements in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company encounters substantial competition, in each of its product
areas, from businesses producing the same or similar products and businesses
producing different products designed for the same uses. Such competition is
expected to continue in all geographic markets. Depending on the particular
market involved, the Company's businesses compete on a variety of factors, such
as price, quality, delivery, customer service, performance, product innovation
and product recognition. Other competitive factors for certain products include
breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and
managerial capability. While the Company's competitive position varies among its
products, the Company believes it is a significant factor in each of its major
product classes.
 
     Certain products and services of the Company are sold in competition with
those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial
financial resources and significant technological capabilities. Other products
compete with independent suppliers or with the captive 
 
 


component divisions of the vehicle manufacturers. Still other businesses
are aligned around markets, customers and common technologies. Brand identity,
service to customers and quality are important competitive factors in the
market and there is considerable price competition.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
     The Company is engaged in manufacturing, sales and/or research and
development mainly in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. U.S.
exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to the Company's
operations. U.S. exports comprised 17% of total Company net sales in both 1998
and 1997. Foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in Europe, were 21%
and 22% of total Company net sales in 1998 and 1997, respectively.
 
     The Company's international operations, including U.S. exports, are
potentially subject to a number of unique risks and limitations, including:
fluctuations in currency value; exchange control regulations; wage and price
controls; employment regulations; foreign investment laws; import and trade
restrictions, including embargoes; and governmental instability.
 
     Approximately 25% of total sales of aerospace-related products and services
were exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems, performance of services
such as aircraft repair and overhaul, and licensing activities. Exports were
principally made to Europe, Asia and Canada. The principal manufacturing
facilities outside of the U.S. are in Europe and Canada. Foreign manufactured
products comprised 11% of total sales of aerospace-related products and
services.
 
     Exports of U.S. manufactured automotive products comprised 5% of total
sales of automotive products. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the
U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia, Latin America and
Canada. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 47% of total sales of
automotive products.
 
     Approximately 13% of total sales of chemicals, fibers, plastics and
advanced materials were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were
principally made to Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. The principal
manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant
operations in Asia and Canada. Foreign manufactured products comprised 19% of
total sales of chemicals, fibers, plastics and advanced materials.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     The principal raw materials used to produce the Company's products include:
aerospace products -- carbon fiber; electronic, optical and mechanical component
parts and assemblies; electronic and electromechanical devices and metallic
products; automotive products -- castings, forgings, steel and bar stock,
copper, aluminum, platinum and titanium and chemicals, fibers, plastics and
advanced materials -- cumene, natural gas, sulfur, terephthalic acid, ethylene
and ethylene glycol, fluorspar, HF, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, nylon
resins, fiberglass, copper foil, platinum, rhodium, polyester chips, lubricating
oil by-products and butylrubber. The Company is producing virtually all of its
HF and nylon resin requirements. The principal raw materials used in the
Company's operations are generally readily available. Major requirements for key
raw materials and fuels are typically purchased pursuant to multi-year
contracts. The Company is not dependent on any one supplier for a material
amount of its raw material or fuel requirements. However, the Company is highly
dependent on its suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to
its customers. In addition, many major components and product equipment items
are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic
and foreign companies. The Company maintains a qualification and performance
surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third
parties. The Company believes that sources of supply for raw materials and
components are generally adequate, although, temporary shortages may occur from
time to time.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The Company owns approximately 9,000 patents or patent applications and is
licensed under other patents covering certain of its products and processes. It
believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under such patents and licenses are
generally important to its operations, but does not consider

 
 


that any patent or patent license agreement or group of them related to a
specific process or product is of material importance in relation to the
Company's total business.

      The Company also has registered trademarks for a number of its products.
Some of the more significant trademarks include: AiResearch, Anso, Autolite,
Bendix, Bendix/King, Capron, Fram, Garrett, Genetron, Holts, Prestone and Redex.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research activities are directed toward the discovery and
development of new products and processes, improvements in existing products and
processes, and the development of new uses of existing products.
 
     Research and development expense totaled $394, $349 and $345 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S.
Government) research and development activities amounted to an additional $418,
$527 and $536 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     The Company is subject to various federal, state and local requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to the protection of the environment. It is the Company's policy to comply with
these requirements and the Company believes that, as a general matter, its
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable
risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in
connection with its business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however,
inherent in certain operations and products of the Company, as it is with other
companies engaged in similar businesses.
 
     The Company is and has been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use or
disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more
regulatory agencies. The Company believes that, as a general matter, its
handling, manufacture, use and disposal of such substances are in accord with
environmental laws and regulations. It is possible, however, that future
knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect
substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and
standards and enforcement policies thereunder, could bring into question the
Company's handling, manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.
 
     Among other environmental requirements, the Company is subject to the
federal superfund law, and similar state laws, under which the Company has been
designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup
costs associated with various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's superfund priority list. Although, under
some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a
responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the
cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other
responsible parties, the Company has not had to bear significantly more than its
proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.
 
     Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities at existing
operations were $52 million in 1998. The Company estimates that during each of
the years 1999 and 2000 such capital expenditures will be in the $60 to $65
million range. In addition to capital expenditures, the Company has incurred and
will continue to incur operating costs in connection with such facilities.
 
     Reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis at page 22 of the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners, incorporated herein by reference,
for further information regarding environmental matters.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company had an aggregate of 70,400 employees at December 31, 1998.
Approximately 49,900 were located in the United States, and, of these employees,
about 23% were unionized employees represented by various local or national
unions.
 
 


 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
 
     The Company has approximately 340 locations consisting of plants, research
laboratories, sales offices and other facilities. The plants are generally
located to serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw
materials and labor pools. The properties are generally maintained in good
operating condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with government
spending and other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is
significantly idle. The facilities, together with planned expansions, are
expected to meet the Company's needs for the foreseeable future. The Company
owns or leases warehouses, railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes
and materials handling and data processing equipment. It also leases space for
administrative and sales staffs. The Company's headquarters and administrative
complex is located at Morris Township, New Jersey.
 
     The principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated,
are as follows:

                                  AEROSPACE SYSTEMS



                   SPECIALTY CHEMICALS & ELECTRONIC SOLUTIONS


                              TURBINE TECHNOLOGIES


                              PERFORMANCE POLYMERS


                            TRANSPORTATION PRODUCTS


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The first four paragraphs of Note 20 (Commitments and Contingencies) of
Notes to Financial Statements at page 39 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Indiana Department of Environmental Management issued a Notice of
Violation (NOV) to the Company on August 18, 1997 alleging, principally, that
the Company had failed to obtain certain air emissions permits required for the
construction and operation of various equipment at its South Bend, Indiana
plant. The Company could be subject to monetary sanctions which may exceed
$100,000. Management does not believe that any such monetary sanctions, if
imposed, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of
operations or financial position of the Company.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
                                   Not Applicable






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The executive officers of the Registrant, listed as follows, are elected
annually in April. There are no family relationships among them.
 

 
- - ------------
(a) Also a director.
 
                                                   (list continued on next page)
 


 

(list continued from previous page)
 

 
                                    PART II.
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS
 
     Market and dividend information for the Registrant's common stock is
contained in Note 25 (Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information) of Notes to
Financial Statements at page 42 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The number of record holders of the Registrant's common stock is contained
in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 18 of the Company's 1998
Annual Report to shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information included under the captions 'For the Year' and 'At
Year-End' in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 18 of the Company's
1998 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 


 

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     'Management's Discussion and Analysis' on pages 19 through 27 of the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     This Report contains, or incorporates by reference, certain statements that
may be deemed 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of
historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that the
Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will
or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are
based upon certain assumptions and assessments made by management of the Company
in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current
conditions, expected future developments and other factors it believes to be
appropriate. The forward-looking statements included in this Report are also
subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not
limited to economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors
affecting the Company's operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual
results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by
such forward-looking statements.
 
ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     Information relating to market risk is included under the caption
'Financial Instruments' in 'Management's Discussion and Analysis' on pages 22
and 23 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners, and such information
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The Company's consolidated financial statements, together with the report
thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 1, 1999 appearing on pages
27 through 42 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to shareowners, are
incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 3, 5, 6, 7
and 7A, the 1998 Annual Report to shareowners is not to be deemed filed as part
of this Form 10-K Annual Report.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
                                   Not Applicable
 
                                   PART III.
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to directors of the Registrant, as well as information
relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, will be contained in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which the Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31,
1998, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. Certain other
information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 15
and 16 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy
Statement referred to above in 'Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,' and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 



 


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in 'Item 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,' and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
                                   Not Applicable
 
                                    PART IV.
 
ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules
 
     The two financial statement schedules applicable to the Company have been
omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.
 
(a)(3.) Exhibits
 
     See the Exhibit Index to this Form 10-K Annual Report. The following
exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this Form 10-K Annual
Report:
 

 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     During the three months ended December 31, 1998, a report on Form 8-K was
filed on October 21, 1998 disclosing certain earnings data, updated Year 2000
information and certain new credit facilities.
 





 


                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                              AlliedSignal Inc.
 
March 4, 1999                              By:  /s/ RICHARD J. DIEMER, JR.
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                    Richard J. Diemer, Jr.
                                                 Vice President and Controller
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:
 


March 4, 1999





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 



 
- - ------------
 
     The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements.



                          STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES
                          ------------------------
 The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as.................. 'r'




 




