
10-K
ALLIED 10-K





________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
 
               [x] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   For the transition period from     to
 
                         Commission file number 1-8974
 
                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (973)455-2000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
- ------------
 
*  The common stock is also listed for trading on the London stock exchange.
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No
                                        ---    -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [ ]
 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $22.0 billion at January 31, 1998.
 
There were 566,016,991 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 1998.
 
                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
                      -----------------------------------
        Part I and II: Annual Report to Shareowners for the Year Ended December
31, 1997.
        Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held
April 27, 1998.
 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________



                               ALLIEDSIGNAL INC.
 
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
 

 

 
- ------------
*  To be included in a definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
   1997.
 



NOTE:  AlliedSignal Inc. is sometimes referred to in this Report as the
Registrant and as the Company, and AlliedSignal Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as the Company, as the context may
require.
 
                                

 
- ------------
 
 (a) These items are omitted since the Registrant will file with the Securities
     and Exchange Commission a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation
     14A involving the election of directors not later than 120 days after
     December 31, 1997. Certain other information relating to the Executive
     Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 16 and 17 of this Report.
 



                                    PART I.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
     AlliedSignal Inc. (with its consolidated subsidiaries referred to in this
Report as the Company) was organized in the State of Delaware in 1985. The
Company is the successor to Allied Corporation, which was organized in the State
of New York in 1920.
 
MAJOR BUSINESSES
 
     AlliedSignal Inc. is an advanced technology and manufacturing company
serving customers worldwide with aerospace and automotive products and
engineered materials, including chemicals, fibers, plastics and advanced
materials. The Company's operations are conducted by ten major businesses, which
are grouped under three major product areas, as follows:
 

 
     Following is a description of the Company's major businesses:
 

 
 



 

 
 



 

 
 



 

 




 

 
 



 

 
     The Aerospace-related businesses have organized their marketing, sales,
service, technical support, repair and overhaul and distribution capabilities
into a single, dedicated point of contact for its customers -- the Marketing,
Sales & Service (MS&S) unit.
 
     Additionally, the environmental catalysts business, a joint-venture with
the General Motors Corporation, is a major worldwide supplier of catalysts used
in catalytic converters for automobiles.
 
GENERAL
 
     The Aerospace-related businesses serve key commercial and military
components of the aviation, defense and space markets with a broad array of
systems, subsystems, components and services. They design, develop, manufacture,
market and service hundreds of products found on all types of aircraft, from
single-piston engine aircraft, business aircraft and wide-bodied 'jumbos' flown
by the world's commercial airlines, to trainers, transports, bombers, fighters
and helicopters used by the U.S.
 
 



and other countries for national defense. The Company's global business consists
primarily of original equipment (OE) sales and an extensive aftermarket
business, including spare parts, maintenance and repair, and retrofitting.
Worldwide customers include the U.S. and foreign governments, all of the major
airframe and engine manufacturers, including Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Airbus
Industrie, Aero International (Regional), Raytheon, Israeli Aircraft Industries,
Northrop Grumman, British Aerospace, Cessna, Fairchild/Dornier, Dassault,
Gulfstream, Bombardier, Rockwell International, Pratt & Whitney, General
Electric and Rolls-Royce, as well as the world's leading airlines and business
aircraft and general aviation aircraft operators, and dealers and distributors
of general aviation products. The Company also provides field engineering
management and technical support services to Boeing, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (NASA), the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the U.S.
Department of Energy, other federal civilian agencies as well as state and local
governments and other commercial entities.
 
     The Company is affected by U.S. Government budget constraints for defense
and space programs as well as the level of production of commercial, business
and general aviation aircraft which are impacted by business cycles and world
economic conditions. Growth in the Company's commercial business for aerospace
products is expected, over the long term, to help mitigate the reductions in
U.S. defense spending. Moreover, sales of aerospace products are not dependent
on any one key defense program or commercial customer.
 
     In 1997, world defense spending stabilized after declining in prior years.
Meanwhile, substantial improvement was seen in the commercial aircraft market,
with build rates for large airlines at near record levels. This level of
commercial activity is expected to continue in 1998. Regional airlines
experienced strong traffic growth and new regional aircraft orders were also
higher in 1997. The high-end business aviation market experienced significant
growth and the commercial aftermarket spare parts and repair and overhaul
business also showed strong improvement during 1997.
 
     The Automotive businesses design, engineer, manufacture and distribute
systems and components for worldwide vehicle manufacturers and aftermarket
customers. As a result of recent acquisitions and divestitures, however, the
Company's automotive businesses are shifting their focus to the worldwide
aftermarket. The Automotive businesses market and distribute popular
customer-branded products as well as private-label brands through warehouse
distributors, mass merchandisers and parts retailers worldwide.
 
     In 1997 and 1996, excluding the impact of the divested safety restraints
and braking businesses, aftermarket sales, including OES sales, accounted for
62% and 63%, respectively, of the total sales of the Automotive businesses and
worldwide passenger car and truck OE sales accounted for the balance. In 1997
and 1996, Automotive-related operations outside the U.S. accounted for $1,384
and $1,332 million, or 46% and 49%, respectively, of total Automotive related
sales.
 
     The Engineered Materials product area has three business units: Polymers,
Specialty Chemicals and Electronic Materials. The Engineered Materials
businesses manufacture chemicals, fibers, plastics and advanced materials with
applications for numerous industries, including electronics, automotive,
carpeting, refrigeration, construction, computers and utilities.
 
     The Polymers business is comprised of fibers, chemicals and plastic resin.
It operates caprolactam, ammonium sulfate and phenol plants. Polymers' market
positions include nylon fiber for carpets and textiles, polyester fiber for
industrial applications and intermediate chemicals. Polymers also makes
Spectra'r' fiber used in armor and sporting goods.
 
     The Specialty Chemicals business manufactures fluorine, hydrofluoric acid
and polyethylene wax products. Specialty Chemicals serves the refrigeration and
air conditioning, insulating foams, sterilization, hydrofluoric acid,
pharmaceutical, agricultural, semiconductor, electronics, polymers, coatings and
sealants and nuclear markets with key specialty and fine chemicals. Included in
Specialty Chemicals is the Company's UOP joint venture with Union Carbide, a
global leader in process technology for the petroleum industry. The integration
of the German chemical company Riedel-de Haen into Specialty Chemicals in 1996
significantly increased Specialty Chemicals' role as a global supplier of
pharmaceutical intermediates.
 
 



     The Electronic Materials business includes laminate systems, materials used
in the production of printed wiring boards, and advanced microelectronic
materials which serves the semiconductor fabrication industry. Also included in
this unit is the amorphous metals business which makes specialty metals for
transformers.
 
     The Company continuously assesses the relative strength of its portfolio of
businesses as to strategic fit, market position and profit contribution in order
to upgrade its combined portfolio and identify operating units that will most
benefit from increased investment. The Company considers acquisition candidates
that will further its strategic plan and strengthen its existing core
businesses. The Company also identifies operating units that do not fit into its
long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability
or growth potential. These operating units are considered for potential
divestiture, restructuring or other repositioning action.
 
U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     Aerospace-related sales to the U.S. Government, acting through its various
departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $1,851
million for 1997 and $1,833 million for 1996, which includes sales to the DoD of
$1,338 million in 1997 and $1,237 million in 1996. Approximately 59% and 55% of
sales to the U.S. Government in 1997 and 1996, respectively, were made under
fixed-price contracts in which the Company agrees to perform a contract for a
fixed price and retains for itself any benefits of cost savings or must bear the
burden of cost overruns.
 
     In addition to normal business risks, companies engaged in supplying
military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual
risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
regulations and other policies which may reflect military and political
developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs
and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, constant necessity for design
improvements, intense competition for available U.S. Government business
necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development,
difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and
highly sophisticated technical work and other factors characteristic of the
industry. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts,
particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of
contract prices.
 
     The Company, as are other government contractors, is subject to government
investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement
regulations. Although such regulations provide that a contractor may be
suspended or debarred from government contracts under certain circumstances, and
the outcome of pending government investigations cannot be predicted with
certainty, management is not currently aware of any such investigations that it
expects will have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the
Company carries out proactive compliance programs focused on areas of potential
exposure.
 
BACKLOG
 
     Orders for certain aerospace-related products sold to general and
commercial aviation customers mainly consist of relatively short-term and
frequently renewed commitments. Government procurement agencies generally issue
contracts covering relatively long periods of time. Total backlog for
aerospace-related products and services for both government and commercial
contracts was $5,087 million at December 31, 1997 and $4,514 million at December
31, 1996 of which U.S. and foreign government orders were $1,908 million and
$1,906 million for the respective years. The Company anticipates that
approximately $4,247 million of the total 1997 backlog will be filled during
1998.
 
     Backlog information may not be an accurate indicator of future sales.
Government contracts and, in general, subcontracts thereunder are terminable, in
whole or in part, for default or for convenience by the government or the higher
level contractor if deemed in their best interest. Upon termination for
convenience, the contractor is normally entitled to reimbursement for allowable
costs and to an allowance for profit. However, if the contract is terminated
because of the contractor's default, the
 
 



contractor may not recover all of its costs and may be liable for any excess
costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another
source.
 
     In addition to the right of the government to terminate, government
contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional
appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even
though contract performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the
outset of a program, the prime contract is usually partially funded and
additional funds are normally only appropriated to the contract by Congress in
future years. Fixed-price subcontracts are normally fully funded, but are
subject to convenience termination if the prime contract is not funded.
 
     In addition, changes in the general economic environment and the financial
condition of the airline industry may result in commercial customer requests for
rescheduling, reduction or cancellation of firm contractual orders.
 
SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 25 (Segment Financial Data) of Notes to Financial Statements in the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Note 26 (Geographic Areas -- Financial Data) of Notes to Financial
Statements in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In June 1997, the Company acquired Prestone Products Corporation (Prestone)
for approximately $400 million, including assumed liabilities. Prestone is a
supplier of premium car care products and has annual sales of approximately $300
million. In July 1997, the Company acquired Grimes Aerospace Company (Grimes), a
manufacturer of exterior and interior aircraft lighting systems, for
approximately $475 million, including assumed liabilities. Grimes, which has
annual sales of approximately $230 million, also manufactures aircraft engine
components such as valves and heat exchangers, as well as electronic systems,
including flight warning computers and active matrix liquid crystal displays. In
October 1997, the Company acquired Astor Holdings, Inc. (Astor) for
approximately $370 million, including assumed liabilities. Astor, a producer of
value-added, wax-based processing aids, sealants and adhesives, has annual sales
of approximately $300 million. In November 1997, the Company acquired Holt Lloyd
Group Ltd. for approximately $150 million. Holt Lloyd is a supplier of car care
products primarily in Europe and Asia and has annual sales of approximately $150
million. In January 1998, the Company also acquired the Hardware Group and
PacAero unit of Banner Aerospace, distributors of aircraft hardware, for
approximately $350 million. The acquired operations have annual sales of about
$250 million, principally to commercial air transport and general aviation
customers. The Company also made several smaller acquisitions in 1997.
 
     To speed delivery of aftermarket products, the Company formed strategic
alliances in 1997 to streamline the Company's distribution processes. UPS
Worldwide Logistics distributes the Company's automotive aftermarket products to
customer locations across North America and Caterpillar Logistics Services
directs the global distribution of spare parts used in the repair and overhaul
of the Company's aerospace products.
 
     In October 1997, the Company completed the sale of its automotive safety
restraints business to Breed Technologies for $710 million in cash, subject to
post-closing adjustments. The safety restraints business had 1996 net sales and
income from operations of $940 and $70 million, respectively, from the sale of
seat belts and air bags. In the first quarter of 1998, the Company expects to
complete the sale of its underwater detection systems business to L-3
Communications Corporation for $70 million in cash, subject to post-closing
adjustments. The ocean systems unit had annual revenues of about $70 million.
During 1997, the Company also sold certain non-strategic businesses and other
assets.
 
     In April 1996, the Company sold a major component of its worldwide braking
business to Robert Bosch GmbH, a privately held German company, for $1.5 billion
in cash, subject to certain post-closing
 
 



adjustments which were finalized in October 1997. Included in the sale were the
worldwide light-vehicle and medium-heavy truck hydraulic braking and ABS
businesses. These businesses had 1995 net sales of $2.0 billion.
 
     In 1997, the Company eliminated its three sector offices, consolidated its
automotive products and avionics groups and repositioned some of its businesses.
 
     The Company has recognized the need to ensure that its computer operations
and operating systems will not be adversely affected by the upcoming calendar
year 2000 and is cognizant of the time sensitive nature of the problem. The
Company has assessed how it may be impacted by Year 2000 and has formulated and
commenced implementation of a comprehensive plan to address known issues as they
relate to its information systems. The plan, as it relates to information
systems, involves a combination of software modification, upgrades and
replacement. The Company estimates that the cost of Year 2000 compliance for its
information systems will not have a material adverse effect on the future
consolidated results of operations of the Company. The Company is not yet able
to estimate the cost for Year 2000 compliance with respect to production
systems, products, customers and suppliers; however, based on a preliminary
review, management does not expect that such costs will have a material adverse
effect on the future consolidated results of operations of the Company.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company encounters substantial competition, in each of its product
areas, with businesses producing the same or similar products or with businesses
producing different products designed for the same uses. Such competition is
expected to continue both in the U.S. and in global markets. Depending on the
particular market involved, the Company's businesses compete on a variety of
factors, such as price, quality, delivery, customer service, performance,
product innovation and product recognition. Other competitive factors for
certain products include breadth of product line, research and development
efforts and technical and managerial capability. While the Company's competitive
position varies among its products, the Company believes it is a significant
factor in each of its major product classes.
 
     Aerospace-related products and services are sold in competition with those
of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial
resources and significant technological capabilities. The Automotive-related
products are sold in competition with other independent suppliers or with the
captive component divisions of the vehicle manufacturers. Engineered
materials-related businesses are aligned around markets, customers and common
technologies. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important
competitive factors in the market and there is considerable price competition.
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
     The Company and affiliated companies are engaged in manufacturing, sales
and/or research and development mainly in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Asia and
Latin America. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to
the Company's operations. U.S. exports comprised 17% of total Company sales in
both 1997 and 1996 and foreign manufactured products and services were 22% and
23% of total Company sales in 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     The Company's international operations, including U.S. exports, are
potentially subject to a number of unique risks and limitations, including:
fluctuations in currency value; exchange control regulations; wage and price
controls; employment regulations; effects of foreign investment laws; import and
trade restrictions, including embargoes; and governmental instability.
 
     The Aerospace-related international operations consist primarily of
exporting U.S. manufactured products and systems, performance of services that
include operating aircraft repair and overhaul facilities, and licensing
activities. The principal manufacturing facility outside of the U.S. is in
Canada.
 
     Automotive-related foreign operations are located in Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico,
South Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom. Distribution and marketing are
conducted in these and numerous other countries as well. Automotive
 
 



related operations outside the U.S. are conducted through various foreign
companies in which it has interests ranging from minor to complete control.
International operations also include the exporting of U.S. manufactured
products and licensing activities. Internationally, products are marketed under
the Bendix, Fram, Autolite and Garrett trademarks.
 
     Regarding Engineered Materials, Polymer's foreign operations are located in
Germany, France and China; Specialty Chemicals' manufacturing facilities are
located in Germany, Belgium, Canada and the Netherlands and Electronic Materials
maintains facilities in Germany and Southeast Asia, including Taiwan, Singapore
and China.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     The principal raw materials used by the Company's businesses include:
Aerospace businesses -- carbon fiber; electronic, optical and mechanical
component parts and assemblies; electronic and electromechanical devices and
metallic products; Automotive businesses -- castings, forgings, steel and bar
stock, copper, aluminum, platinum and titanium and Engineered Materials
businesses -- cumene, natural gas, sulfur, terephthalic acid, ethylene and
ethylene glycol, fluorspar, HF, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, nylon resins,
fiberglass, copper foil, platinum, rhodium, polyester chips, lubricating oil
by-products, butylrubber and coal tar pitch. The Company is producing virtually
all of its HF and nylon resin requirements. The principal raw materials used in
the Company's operations are generally readily available. Major requirements for
key raw materials and fuels are typically purchased pursuant to multi-year
contracts. The Company is not dependent on any one supplier for a material
amount of its raw material or fuel requirements, however, the Company is highly
dependent on its suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to
its customers, and many major components and product equipment items are
procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and
foreign companies. The Company maintains a qualification and performance
surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third
parties. The Company believes that sources of supply for raw materials and
components are generally adequate, however, temporary shortages may occur from
time to time.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The Company owns approximately 9,060 patents or patent applications and is
licensed under other patents covering certain of its products and processes. It
believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under such patents and licenses are
generally important to its operations, but does not consider that any patent or
patent license agreement or group of them related to a specific process or
product is of material importance in relation to the Company's total business.
 
     The Company also has registered trademarks for a number of its products.
Some of the more significant trademarks include: AiResearch, Anso, Autolite,
Bendix, Bendix/King, Capron, Fram, Garrett, Genetron, King, Prestone and Norplex
Oak.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research activities are directed toward the discovery and
development of new products and processes, improvements in existing products and
processes, and the development of new uses of existing products.
 
     Research and development expense totaled $349, $345 and $353 million in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S.
Government) research and development activities amounted to an additional $597,
$536 and $536 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     The Company is subject to various federal, state and local requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to the protection of the environment. It is the Company's policy to comply with
these requirements and the Company believes that, as a general matter, its
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable
risk of
 
 



environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with
its business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in certain
operations and products of the Company, as it is with other companies engaged in
similar businesses.
 
     The Company is and has been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use or
disposal of many substances which are classified as hazardous or toxic by one or
more regulatory agencies. The Company believes that, as a general matter, its
handling, manufacture, use and disposal of such substances are in accord with
environmental laws and regulations. It is possible, however, that future
knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect
substances in the environment, increasingly strict environmental laws and
standards and enforcement policies thereunder, could bring into question the
Company's handling, manufacture, use or disposal of such substances.
 
     Among other environmental requirements, the Company is subject to the
federal superfund law, and similar state laws, under which the Company has been
designated as a potentially responsible party which may be liable for cleanup
costs associated with various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's superfund priority list. Although, under
some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a
responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the
cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other
responsible parties, the Company has not had to bear significantly more than its
proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.
 
     Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities at existing
operations were $69 million in 1997. The Company estimates that during each of
the years 1998 and 1999 such capital expenditures will be in the $70 to $75
million range. In addition to capital expenditures, the Company has incurred and
will continue to incur operating costs in connection with such facilities.
 
     Reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis at page 21 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners, incorporated herein by reference,
for further information regarding environmental matters.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company had an aggregate of 70,500 salaried and hourly employees at
December 31, 1997. Approximately 51,900 were located in the United States, and,
of these employees, about 25% were unionized employees represented by various
local or national unions.
 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
 
     The Company has 356 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories,
sales offices and other facilities. The plants are generally located to serve
large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and labor
pools. The properties are generally maintained in good operating condition.
Utilization of these plants may vary with government spending and other business
conditions; however, no major operating facility is significantly idle. The
facilities, together with planned expansions, are expected to meet the Company's
needs for the foreseeable future. The Company owns or leases warehouses,
railroad cars, barges, automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and
data processing equipment. It also leases space for administrative and sales
staffs. The Company's headquarters and administrative complex are located at
Morris Township, New Jersey.
 
 



     The principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated,
are as follows:
 
                                   AEROSPACE
 



 
                                   AUTOMOTIVE
 


 
                              ENGINEERED MATERIALS
 



ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The first and second paragraphs of Note 21 (Commitments and Contingencies)
of Notes to Financial Statements at page 36 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report
to shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     On September 27, 1997 the Company asked the United States District Court
for the Northern District of New York to resolve a dispute over whether the
Company was late in delivering a mercury modeling report to the State of New
York. The report was delivered pursuant to a consent decree between the Company
and the State addressing a remedial investigation of the Onondaga Lake system
where the Company had operations prior to 1987. On December 19, 1997, the Court
ruled that the State had properly established a deadline for the report of April
15, 1997, and that a $191,000 stipulated penalty was payable under the consent
decree because the report had been delivered 58 days after the deadline.
 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The executive officers of the Registrant, listed as follows, are elected
annually in April. There are no family relationships among them.
 

 
                                                   (list continued on next page)
 
 



(list continued from previous page)
 

 
                                    PART II.
 
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS
 
     Market and dividend information for the Registrant's common stock is
contained in Note 27 (Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information) of Notes to
Financial Statements at page 39 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to
shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The number of record holders of the Registrant's common stock is contained
in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 18 of the Company's 1997
Annual Report to shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information included under the captions 'For the Year' and 'At
Year-End' in the statement 'Selected Financial Data' at page 18 of the Company's
1997 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     'Management's Discussion and Analysis' on pages 19 through 25 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     This Report contains, or incorporates by reference, certain statements that
may be deemed 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of
historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that the
Company or management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will
or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such statements are
based upon certain
 
 



assumptions and assessments made by management of the Company in light of its
experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other factors it believes to be appropriate. The
forward-looking statements included in this Report are also subject to a number
of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to economic,
competitive, governmental and technological factors affecting the Company's
operations, markets, products, services and prices. Such forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results,
developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such
forward-looking statements.
 
ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect its results of
operations and financial condition. The Company seeks to minimize the risks from
these interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through its
regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through
the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial
instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any
leveraged financial instruments.
 
     A discussion of the Company's accounting policies for financial instruments
is included in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) of Notes to
Financial Statements at page 29 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to
shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
Additional disclosure relating to financial instruments is included in Note 17
(Financial Instruments) of Notes to Financial Statements at pages 34 and 35 of
the Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Company uses foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge the
exposure to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company's
principal currency exposures relate to the French franc, the German deutsche
mark and the British pound against the U.S. dollar. The Company's exposure to
changes in foreign currency exchange rates arises from intercompany loans
utilized to finance foreign subsidiaries, receivables, payables and firm
commitments arising from international transactions. The Company attempts to
have all such transaction exposures hedged with internal natural offsets to the
fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted,
through derivative financial instruments with third parties using forward or
option agreements. The Company also uses derivative financial instruments to
hedge the Company's exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates for
the translated U.S. dollar value of net income of a number of foreign
subsidiaries. Forward and option agreements used to hedge net income are marked
to market and recognized immediately in income.
 
     The Company utilizes both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt as described in
Note 15 (Long-term Debt and Credit Agreement) of Notes to Financial Statements
at page 33 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners, and such
information is incorporated herein by reference. The Company uses interest rate
swaps to manage the Company's exposure to interest rate movements and reduce
borrowing costs.
 
     The Company also maintains debt investments classified as
available-for-sale and carried at their quoted market value. These short-term
investments result from excess cash on hand.
 
     The Company manages market risk by restricting the use of derivative
financial instruments to hedging activities and by limiting potential interest
and currency rate exposures to amounts that are not material to the Company's
consolidated results of operations and cash flows. The Company also has
procedures to monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value of its
long-term debt, short-term debt investments and other financial instruments,
considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency rates. These
procedures include the use of sensitivity analysis to estimate the impact of
interest rate and currency rate changes on future cash flows and fair values.
The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest
rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate 1% point increase
in interest rates across all maturities and the potential change in fair value
for foreign exchange sensitive instruments based on a 10% increase in U.S.
dollar per local currency exchange rates across all maturities at December 31,
1997 (dollars in millions):
 
 



 

 
- ------------
(1) Asset or (liability)
 
(2) Excludes capitalized leases.
 
(3) Increases and decreases in the fair value of foreign currency forward
    agreements are completely offset by changes in the fair value of net
    underlying foreign currency transaction exposures.
 
     The above discussion of the Company's procedures to monitor market risk and
the estimated changes in fair value resulting from the Company's sensitivity
analyses are forward-looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse
market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from
these estimated results due to actual developments in the global financial
markets. The analysis methods used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk
discussed above should not be considered projections of future events or losses.
 
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The Company's consolidated financial statements, together with the report
thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 28, 1998 appearing on pages 26
through 40 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to shareowners, are incorporated
herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned information and
the information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 7A, the
1997 Annual Report to shareowners is not to be deemed filed as part of this Form
10-K Annual Report.
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                   PART III.
 
ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information relating to directors of the Registrant, as well as information
relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, will be contained in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election
of directors which the Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after December 31,
1997, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. Certain other
information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears at pages 16
and 17 of this Form 10-K Annual Report.
 
ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy
Statement referred to above in 'Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,' and such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 



ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to above in 'Item 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,' and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
                                 Not Applicable
 
                                    PART IV.
 
ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
(a)(2.) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules
 
     The two financial statement schedules applicable to the Company have been
omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required.
 
(a)(3.) Exhibits
 
     See the Exhibit Index to this Form 10-K Annual Report. The following
exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this Form 10-K Annual
Report:
 

 
     The exhibits identified in the Exhibit Index with an asterisk(*) are
management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     During the three months ended December 31, 1997, reports on Form 8-K were
filed on October 22, November 17 and December 18, in each case reporting, under
Item 9, unregistered sales of the Company's Common Stock in reliance on
Regulation S under the Act.
 



                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          AlliedSignal Inc.
 
February 26, 1998                         By:       /s/ NANCY A. GARVEY
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                       Nancy A. Garvey
                                                Vice President and Controller
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
annual report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:
 

 
February 26, 1998
 



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 







- ------------
     The Exhibits identified above with an asterisk(*) are management contracts
or compensatory plans or arrangements.



                           STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES

The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as......................'r'





 




