10-K


c63936_10-k.htm

* The common stock is also listed
 on the London Stock Exchange.

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by
check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition
of “accelerated filer,” “large accelerated filer,” and “smaller reporting
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by
check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act). Yes

o

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $29.8 billion at June 30, 2010.

There were
784,122,288 shares of Common Stock outstanding at January 31, 2011.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part III:
Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held April 25, 2011.

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

P

ART I.

Item 1. B

usiness

Honeywell
International Inc. (Honeywell) is a diversified technology and manufacturing
company, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services,
control, sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry,
turbochargers, automotive products, specialty chemicals, electronic and
advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and
energy efficient products and solutions for homes, business and transportation.
Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.

We
maintain an internet website at http://www.honeywell.com. Our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website under
the heading “Investor Relations” (see “SEC Filings & Reports”) immediately
after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by
reference certain information from parts of its proxy statement for the 2011
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or
about March 10, 2011, and which will also be available free of charge on our
website.

Information
relating to corporate governance at Honeywell, including Honeywell’s Code of
Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Charters of the
Committees of the Board of Directors are also available, free of charge, on our
website under the heading “Investor Relations” (see “Corporate Governance”), or
by writing to Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962,
c/o Vice President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell’s Code of Business
Conduct applies to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees.

Major Businesses

We
globally manage our business operations through four businesses that are
reported as operating segments: Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions,
Specialty Materials and Transportation Systems. Financial information related
to our operating segments is included in Note 23 of Notes to Financial
Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The
major products/services, customers/uses and key competitors of each of our
operating segments follows:

Aerospace

Our
Aerospace segment is a leading global provider of integrated avionics, engines,
systems and service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, business
and general aviation, military, space and airport operations.









Aerospace Sales

Our
sales to aerospace customers were 32, 35 and 35 percent of our total sales in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our sales to commercial aerospace original
equipment manufacturers were 6, 7 and 9 percent of our total sales in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, our sales to commercial aftermarket
customers of aerospace products and services were 10, 11 and 11 percent of our
total sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our Aerospace results of
operations can be impacted by various industry and economic conditions. See
“Item 1A. Risk Factors.”


U.S. Government Sales

Sales to
the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its
various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to
$4,354, $4,288 and $4,240 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which
included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and
subcontractor, of $3,500, $3,455 and $3,412 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. U.S. defense spending increased in 2010. Although we expect a
slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2011 (see Item 7
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations), we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed
changes in 2011 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the
government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering development
programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). Our contracts
with the U.S. Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination
by the government. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Backlog

Our total
backlog at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $14,616 and $13,182 million,
respectively. We anticipate that approximately $10,609 million of the 2010
backlog will be filled in 2011. We believe that backlog is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the
orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer’s option.

Competition

We are
subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas.
Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive
conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by
us, and vary by country. Depending on the particular customer or market
involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price,
quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied
technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service
to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our
products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other
competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line,
research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While
our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we
are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes.
However, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with
those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial
financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition,
some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original
equipment manufacturers. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for further discussion.

International Operations

We
    are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development
    mainly in the United States, Europe, Asia, Canada, Middle East and Latin
    America. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to
    our operations. U.S. exports comprised 11, 12 and 10 percent of our total
    sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Foreign manufactured products
    and services, mainly in Europe, were 41, 39 and 39 percent of our total sales
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Approximately
17 percent of total 2010 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were
exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services
such as aircraft repair and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe,
Canada, Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and
performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2010
Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in
Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.

Approximately
2 percent of total 2010 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products and
services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured
products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2010
Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities
outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia and
Canada.

Approximately
30 percent of total 2010 sales of Specialty Materials products and services
were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were principally made to
Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and performance of
services comprised 27 percent of total 2010 Specialty Materials sales. The
principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less
significant operations in Asia and Canada.


Approximately
3 percent of total 2010 sales of Transportation Systems products were exports
of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 70
percent of total 2010 sales of Transportation Systems. The principal
manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant
operations in Asia and Latin America.

Financial
information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic
areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Information regarding the
economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international
operations is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Raw Materials

The
principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available.
We experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and
commodities in 2010. We are not dependent on any one supplier for a material
amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in
our Specialty Materials segment. We purchase phenol under a supply agreement
with one supplier.

The costs
of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component
in phenol), ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur in our Specialty Materials business,
steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene glycol in our Transportation Systems
business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace business, are
expected to remain volatile. In addition, in 2010 certain large long-term fixed
supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our
Aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility
in certain component costs. We will continue to attempt to offset raw material
cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and
hedging activities where feasible. We do not presently anticipate that a
shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2011.
See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.

We are
highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet
commitments to our customers. In addition, many major components and product
equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a
number of domestic and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and
performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance
on third parties. While we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and
components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects
shortages or price increases may have in the future. Furthermore, the inability
of these suppliers to meet their quality and/or delivery commitments to us, due
to bankruptcy, natural disasters or any other reason, may result in significant
costs and delay, including those in connection with the required
recertification of parts from new suppliers with our customers or regulatory
agencies.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and
Distribution Rights

Our
segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents,
or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large
number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of
many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those
products and which are of importance to our business. From time to time, new
patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and
rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying
terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. In our
judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe
that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses
are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent,
trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights
related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in
relation to our total business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further
discussion.

We have
registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including
Honeywell, Aclar, Ademco, Autolite, Bendix, Enovate, Fire-Lite, FRAM, Garrett,
Hand Held, Holts, Jurid, Metrologic, MK, North, Notifier, Novar, Prestone,
Redex, RMG, Simoniz, Spectra, System Sensor and UOP.

Research and Development

Our
research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new
products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for
existing products. The Company’s principal research and development activities
are in the U.S., Europe, India and China.

Research
and development (R&D) expense totaled $1,466, $1,330 and $1,543 million in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
increase in R&D expense of 10 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 was mainly
due to


additional product design and development costs in Automation and
Control Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of products for
new aircraft platforms. The decrease in R&D expense in 2009 compared to
2008 of 14 percent was consistent with our 15 percent decrease in net sales.
R&D as a percentage of sales was 4.4, 4.3 and 4.2 percent in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S. Government)
R&D activities amounted to an additional $874, $852 and $903 million in
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Environment

We are
subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment. It is our policy to comply with
these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies,
practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with
our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some
of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in
similar businesses.

We are and
have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many
substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. We
believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are
properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and
personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these
substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It
is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as
improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly
strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring
into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of
these substances.

Among other
environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar
state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as
a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated
with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some
of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority
list. Although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a
possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its
proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate
contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear
significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken
as a whole.

We
    do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation,
    or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material
effect in the foreseeable future on the Company’s business or markets
that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or
financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this
area.

Further
information, including the current status of significant environmental matters
and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental
matters, if any, is included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Note 21 of Notes to
Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Employees

We have
approximately 130,000 employees at December 31, 2010, of which approximately
53,000 were located in the United States.


I

tem
 1A.

Risk
 Factors

Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking
Statements

We have
described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and
future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations”, including the overview of the Company and
each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors
and areas of focus for 2011. These sections and other parts of this report
(including this Item 1A) contain “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Forward-looking
statements are those that address activities, events or developments that
management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may
occur in the future. They are based on management’s assumptions and assessments
in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry
conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are
not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and
business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any of our
forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to
risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and
long-term. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of
the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular, the
factors discussed below.

Risk Factors

Our
business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to
the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our
actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated
future results.

Industry and economic conditions may
adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in
turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of
operations.

The
operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and
economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment
patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our
manufacturing and shipping costs. The operating results of our Aerospace
segment, which generated 32 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2010, are directly
tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for
air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or
cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new
aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and
business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in
customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier
consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix
of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further
discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment
faced by the commercial airline industry may be influenced by a wide variety of
factors including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues,
airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as
well as changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health
issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our
Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our
Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 41 percent of
our consolidated revenues in 2010, are impacted by the level of global
residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades),
capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation,
industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in
distribution channels, and global economic growth rates. Specialty Materials’
operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in
2010, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for
chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our
customers’ availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and
commodity demand volatility. Transportation Systems’ operating results, which
generated 13 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2010, are impacted by
global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with
turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions
and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and
consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products.
Demand of global automotive and truck manufacturers will continue to be
influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to
obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and
business confidence. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw
material prices (as further described below) and non-material inflation.

Raw material price fluctuations, the ability
of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic
events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability
to meet commitments to customers, and cause us to incur significant
liabilities.


The cost of
raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our
Specialty Materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas,
ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur), Transportation Systems (nickel, steel, other
metals and ethylene glycol) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals)
segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased
prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers,
productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our
results of operations.

Our
manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of
materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of
major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in
full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards,
and applicable laws and regulations. In addition, many major components and
product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis;
in some circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or
equipment. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may
be constrained by our suppliers’ ability to adjust delivery of long-lead time
products during times of volatile demand. Our suppliers may fail to perform
according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to
identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their
non-performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted
by suppliers’ decisions to exit certain businesses and by external events such
as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist
actions, labor disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes
(e.g., product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing
restrictions, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, etc.). Our
inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill
obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn,
result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and
damage to customer relationships. Transitions to new suppliers may result in
significant costs and delays, including those related to the required
recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or
regulatory agencies. In addition, because our businesses cannot always
immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our
manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short
of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating
costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships.

Our
facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject
to catastrophic loss due to, among other things fire, flood, terrorism or other
    natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were
    to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result
    in personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers
    and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems,
    as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. The same risk
    can also arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by Honeywell
    to large industrial, refining and petrochemical
    customers.

Our future growth is largely dependent upon
our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with
acceptable margins.

Our
businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing
technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth
rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify
emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and
maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative
features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and
prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring
products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain
individuals with the requisite expertise.

Our ability
to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our
competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources.
These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in
our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or
products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as
competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not
develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or
products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our
competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our
competitive standing and prospects.

Protecting
our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts.

We own or
are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent
applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may
expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we
may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party
proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some
non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their
application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and
other


intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could
diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our
intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant
litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and
marketing of the affected products or services.

Our systems
are subject to risks from unlawful attempts by others to gain unauthorized
access to our information technology systems through the Internet. The theft
and/or unauthorized use or production of our trade secrets and other
confidential business information could reduce the value of our investment in
R&D and product development and could subject us to claims by third parties
relating to loss of their confidential or proprietary information.

An increasing percentage of our sales and
operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic,
political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.

Our
international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion
of our operating results. Our strategy calls for increasing sales to and
operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as Mexico,
Brazil, China, India, Malaysia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe.

In
    2010, 52 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the
    U.S. and in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including 28
    percent in Europe and 11 percent in Asia. Risks related to international
    operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls,
    employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other
    trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations
regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private
enterprises, government instability, and our ability to hire and maintain
qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. We
are also subject to U.S. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in
certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted
    in these countries. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and
    often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in
    modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our
    businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable
operating margins.

As we
continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be
increasingly affected by the relative strength of the European and Asian
economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. We do have a policy to
reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities
bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be
successful in eliminating such volatility.

We may be required to recognize impairment
charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments.

At December
31, 2010, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and
equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale
securities totaled approximately $19.0 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically
assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative
industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected
significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and
market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other
long-lived assets. An other than temporary decline in the market value of our
available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. Future
impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the
periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated
shareowners’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which
could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and
equity markets.

A change in the level of U.S. Government
defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is
allocated could adversely impact Aerospace’s defense and space sales and
results of operations.

Sales of
our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon
government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime
contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense comprised
approximately 33 and 10 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for
the year ended December 31, 2010. We cannot predict the extent to which total
funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or
reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by
Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations.
We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to
military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity
on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space
spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in
funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our
results of operations.


As a supplier of military and other equipment
to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of
the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct
audits and investigations of our operations and performance.

In addition
to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and
other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including
dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and
other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant
changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with
which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense
competition for U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and
investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules
when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and
other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests
and delays in the timing of contract approvals. Changes are customary over the
life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and
generally result in adjustments of contract prices.

Our
contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits. Like many other
government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward
price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems
or controls to comply with various government regulations. We have made
adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in
the future.

U.S.
Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for
the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the
applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we are
typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus
termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the
government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs
incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any
other source and any other damages suffered by the government.

We are also
subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with
government procurement regulations. If Honeywell or one of its businesses were
charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other
government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or
export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new
government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the
completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended.
The U.S. Government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from
receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious
misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years.

Our reputation and ability to do business may
be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners.

We cannot
ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will in
all instances protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our
employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the
jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including laws governing payments
to government officials, competition and data privacy. Any improper actions
could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary
penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results
of operations and reputation.

Changes in legislation or government
regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of
operations.

The
    sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government
regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the
Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory
bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product
certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact
Aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and
profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control
Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security,
safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and
regulations. Specialty Materials’ results of operations can be affected
by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy
efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency
standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our
Transportation Systems segment. Legislation or regulations regarding areas such
as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health, safety and environmental
matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product
certification, and product liability may impact
the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results.

Completed acquisitions may not perform as
anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as
planned.


We
regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through
acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to
complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In
addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by
(i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii)
the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to
integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve
synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the
inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms
and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of
protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the
obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested
businesses.

We cannot predict with certainty the outcome
of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and
uncertainties.

We are
subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve
substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business,
including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts,
product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures,
employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export
matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these
matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are
uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings.
Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new
developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary
requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards
or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for
certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to
cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not
possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and
liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or
insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of
operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.

Our operations and the prior operations of
predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental
liabilities.

Mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are
subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of
environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages
that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have
incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination
and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety
matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances.
Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are
likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal,
state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of
materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and
criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment
or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of
accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to
incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In
addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery
of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to
individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity
standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new
clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in
the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

Our expenses include significant costs
related to employee and retiree health benefits.

With
approximately 130,000 employees, including approximately 53,000 in the U.S.,
our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are
significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in
certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our
control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess
of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health-care costs, legislative
or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in
other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may
adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.


Risks related to our defined benefit pension
plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.

Significant
changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and
other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension
contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial
valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and
interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements
for our U.S. pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate
amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest
rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory
changes related to pension funding obligations. For a discussion regarding the
significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount
rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and how our
financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see
“Critical Accounting Policies” included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Additional tax expense or additional tax
exposures could affect our future profitability.

We are
subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S.
jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent
upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2010,
our tax expense represented 28.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes
estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and
reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future
earnings of the Company that could effect the valuation of our deferred tax
assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the
effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries
with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the
Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax
assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously
filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures.

Volatility of credit markets or
macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business.

Changes in
U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions,
limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of
financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. In addition, our
borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by
independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our
cost of borrowing.

Delays in
our customers’ ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing
to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash
flow. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the
need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant
incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. Lastly, disruptions in the U.S.
and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which
we do business.

I

tem
 1B.

Unresolved
 Staff Comments

Not
Applicable

I

tem
 2.

Properties

We
    have approximately 1,300 locations consisting of plants, research laboratories,
sales offices and other facilities. Our headquarters and administrative complex
is located in Morris Township, New Jersey. Our plants are generally located to
serve large marketing areas and to provide accessibility to raw materials and
labor pools. Our properties are generally maintained in good operating
condition. Utilization of these plants may vary with sales to customers and
other business conditions; however, no major operating facility is
significantly idle. We own or lease warehouses, railroad cars, barges,
automobiles, trucks, airplanes and materials handling and data processing
equipment. We also lease space for administrative and sales staffs. Our
properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for
our present needs. We do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases
as they expire or in finding alternative facilities.

Our
principal plants, which are owned in fee unless otherwise indicated, are as
follows:


I

tem
 3.

Legal
 Proceedings

We are
subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which
involve substantial amounts) arising out of the conduct of our business. See a
discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters in Note 21
of Notes to Financial Statements.

Environmental Matters Involving Potential
Monetary Sanctions in Excess of $100,000

Although
the outcome of the matters discussed below cannot be predicted with certainty,
we do not believe that any of them, individually or in the aggregate, will have
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, consolidated
results of operations or operating cash flows.

The United
States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Department of
Justice (“federal authorities”) are investigating whether the storage of
certain sludges generated during uranium hexafluoride production at our
Metropolis, Illinois facility has been in compliance with the requirements of
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The federal authorities have
convened a grand jury in this matter. The Company has cooperated fully in the
investigation and has been engaged in discussions with the federal authorities
regarding a resolution of this matter, which the Company expects to finalize in
the first quarter of 2011. The storage issue at the Metropolis site was also
previously voluntarily disclosed to the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, with whom Honeywell has been working to resolve related civil
environmental claims.

In
    November 2010 Honeywell reached a final settlement agreement with the New
    York State Department of Environmental Conservation to settle allegations
    that Honeywell failed to properly close out waste storage areas associated
    with legacy operations in Syracuse, New York, which areas are known as the
    Solvay Settling Basins. Under the terms of the settlement, Honeywell will
pay a fine of $100,000 and implement certain environmental projects in the area.


The United
States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Department of
Justice are investigating whether the Company’s manufacturing facility in
Hopewell, Virginia is in compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act
and the facility’s air operating permit. Based on these investigations, the
federal authorities have issued notices of violation with respect to the
facility’s benzene waste operations, leak detection and repair program,
emissions of nitrogen oxides and emissions of particulate matter. The Company
has entered into negotiations with federal authorities to resolve the alleged
violations.

E

xecutive Officers of
the Registrant

The executive officers of Honeywell, listed
as follows, are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family
relationships among them.

(a) Also a Director.


P

art II.

I

tem 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
 Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market and
dividend information for Honeywell’s common stock is included in Note 26 of
Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”

The number
of record holders of our common stock at December 31, 2010 was 61,830.

Honeywell
did not purchase any of its common stock, par value $1 per share, for the year
ending December 31, 2010. The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase
of up to a total of $3 billion of Honeywell common stock, which amount includes
    $1.3 billion that remained available under the Company’s previously
    reported share repurchase program. Honeywell presently expects to repurchase
    outstanding shares from time to time during 2011 to offset the dilutive impact
    of employee stock based compensation plans, including future option exercises,
    restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans.
    The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending on market
    conditions and the level of operating, financing and other investing activities.

Performance Graph

The
following graph compares the five-year cumulative total return on our Common
Stock to the total returns on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index
and a composite of Standard & Poor’s Industrial Conglomerates and Aerospace
and Defense indices, on a 60%/40% weighted basis, respectively (the “Composite
Index”). The weighting of the components of the Composite Index are based
on our segments’ relative contribution to total segment profit. In prior
years, these components had been equally weighted. The change in weighting reflects
the growth, both organic and through acquisitions, in the Company’s
non-Aerospace businesses. The selection of the Industrial Conglomerates
component of the Composite Index reflects the diverse and distinct range of
non-aerospace businesses conducted by Honeywell. Per SEC rules, we are including
the Composite Index on an equally weighted basis in the graph below with respect
to 2005-2009. The annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph
are based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in Honeywell stock and
each index on December 31, 2005 and that all dividends were reinvested.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

Information
in Items 6, 7, 8 and Exhibit 12 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008,
2007 and 2006 have been revised, as applicable, for the retrospective
application of our change in accounting policy for recognizing pension expense.
See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the
change and the impacts for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.

I

tem 6.

Selected Financial Data


I

tem 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
 Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(Dollars in millions, except per share
amounts)

The
following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand
the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International
Inc. (“Honeywell”) for the three years ended December 31, 2010. All references
to Notes related to Notes to the Financial Statements in “Item 8-Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data”.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The
change in net sales compared to the prior year period is attributable to the
following:

A
discussion of net sales by segment can be found in the Review of Business
Segments section of this MD&A.

Cost
of products and services sold increased by $1,507 million or 6 percent in 2010
compared with 2009 principally due to an estimated increase in direct material
costs and indirect costs of approximately $1,300 million and $300 million,
respectively, driven substantially by an 8 percent increase in sales as a
result of the factors discussed above and in the Review of Business Segments section
of this MD&A and an $150 million increase in Repositioning and Other
Charges (see Note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements), partially offset by a
$300 million decrease in pension expense.

Gross
margin percentage increased by 1.2 percentage points in 2010 compared with 2009
primarily due to lower pension expense (approximate 1 percentage point impact)
and higher sales volume driven by our Automation and Control Solutions segment,
Specialty Materials segment and Transportation Systems segment (approximate 0.7
percentage point impact), partially offset by higher repositioning and other
charges (approximate 0.4 percentage point impact).

Cost of
products and services sold decreased by $7,106 million or 23 percent in the
2009 compared with 2008. The decrease is primarily due to lower pension
expense, lower sales as a result of the factors discussed within the Review of
Business Segments section of this MD&A, lower material costs, reduced labor
costs (reflecting reduced census, work scheduled reductions, benefits from
prior repositioning actions and lower incentive compensation), the positive
impact of indirect cost savings initiatives across each of our Business
Segments, and lower repositioning charges.


Gross
margin percentage increased by 7.4 percentage points in 2009 compared with
2008, primarily due to lower pension expense, increases of 2.9 and 0.6 percent,
respectively, in our Specialty Materials and Automation & Controls
Solutions segments, as a result of the cost savings initiatives discussed
above, and lower repositioning charges, partially offset by lower margins in
our Transportation Systems and Aerospace Solutions segments of 3.2 and 0.7
percent, respectively, due to lower sales partially offset by the impact of
cost savings initiatives.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses (SG&A) decreased as a percentage of
sales by 0.3 percent in 2010 compared to the 2009 driven by the impact of
higher sales volume, discussed above, and lower pension expense, partially
offset by an estimated $500 million increase in labor costs (reflecting the
absence of prior period labor cost actions).

SG&A
as a percentage of sales increased by 0.4 of a percentage point in 2009
compared with 2008. The increase as a percentage of sales was driven by lower
sales volumes, substantially offset by the positive impact of i) lower pension
expense, (ii) indirect cost savings initiatives across each of our Business
Segments, iii) reduced labor costs (reflecting reduced census, work schedule
reductions, benefits from prior repositioning actions and lower incentive
compensation) and iv) lower repositioning charges.

Other
income increased by $40 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due primarily to i) a
$62 million pre-tax gain related to the consolidation of a joint venture within
our Specialty Materials segment in the third quarter of 2010 (see Note 4 of
Notes to Financial statements) for further details, ii) the absence of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge of $62 million in the second
quarter of 2009, partially offset by the absence of a $50 million
deconsolidation gain related to a subsidiary within our Automation and Control
Solutions segment in 2009 and $22 million of acquisition related costs in 2010.

Other
income decreased by $693 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to i) a
lower gain on sale of non-strategic businesses and assets due to the gain on
the sale of our Consumables Solutions business in 2008 partially offset by a
gain related to the deconsolidation of a subsidiary within our Automation and
Control Solutions segment in 2009 (See Note 4 to the financial statements) and
ii) lower interest income primarily due to lower interest rates on cash
balances.

Interest
and other financial charges decreased by 16 percent in 2010 compared with 2009
primarily due to lower debt balances and lower borrowing costs.


Interest
and other financial charges increased by 1 percent in 2009 compared with 2008
due to lower debt balances offset by higher borrowing costs on term debt.

The
effective tax rate increased by 5.7 percentage points in 2010 compared with
2009 primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S.
pension expense, the impact of an enacted change in the tax treatment of the
Medicare Part D program, the absence of manufacturing incentives, a decreased
impact from the settlement of audits and an increase in the foreign effective
tax rate. The foreign effective tax rate increased by approximately 7
percentage points which primarily consisted of i) a 6 percentage point impact
from the absence of tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment
losses and ii) a 0.5 percentage points impact from increased valuation
allowances on net operating loss. The effective tax rate was lower than the
U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to earnings taxed at lower
foreign rates.

The
effective tax rate increased by 60.4 percentage points in 2009 compared to 2008
primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S.
pension expense and to a lesser extent, a decreased impact from the settlement
of audits. The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35
percent primarily due to earnings taxed at lower foreign rates.

In
2011, the effective tax rate could change based upon the Company’s operating
results and the outcome of tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax
returns currently under audit by various Federal, State and foreign tax
authorities, several of which may be finalized in the foreseeable future. The
Company believes that it has adequate reserves for these matters, the outcome
of which could materially impact the results of operations and operating cash
flows in the period they are resolved.

Earnings
per share of common stock – assuming dilution increased by $0.54 per share in
2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to increased segment profit in our
Automation and Control Solutions, Specialty Materials and Transportation
Systems segments and lower pension expense, partially offset by higher tax
expense and higher repositioning and other charges.

Earnings
per share of common stock – assuming dilution increased by $0.97 per share in
2009 compared with 2008 primarily relates to lower pension expense and lower
repositioning charges, partially offset by a decrease in segment profit in each
of our business segments, decreased Other (Income) Expense, as discussed above,
and an increase in the number of shares outstanding.

For
further discussion of segment results, see “Review of Business Segments”.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

This
Business Overview provides a summary of Honeywell and its four reportable
operating segments (Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions, Specialty
Materials and Transportation Systems), including their respective areas of
focus for 2011 and the relevant economic and other factors impacting their
results, and a discussion of each segment’s results for the three years ended
December 31, 2010. Each of these segments is comprised of various product and
service classes that serve multiple end markets. See Note 23 to the financial
statements for further information on our reportable segments and our
definition of segment profit.


Economic and Other Factors

In
addition to the factors listed below with respect to each of our operating
segments, our consolidated operating results are principally driven by:

Areas of Focus for 2011

The
areas of focus for 2011, which are generally applicable to each of our
operating segments, include:


Review of Business Segments


A
reconciliation of segment profit to consolidated income from continuing
operations before taxes are as follows:


Aerospace

Overview

Aerospace
is a leading global supplier of aircraft engines, avionics, and related
products and services for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, aircraft operators,
military services, and defense and space contractors. Our Aerospace products
and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental
control systems, electric power systems, engine controls, flight safety,
communications, navigation, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting,
management and technical services, logistics services, advanced systems and
instruments, aircraft wheels and brakes and repair and overhaul services.
Aerospace sells its products to original equipment (OE) manufacturers in the
air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft segments, and
provides spare parts and repair and maintenance services for the aftermarket
(principally to aircraft operators). The United States Government is also a
major customer for our defense and space products.

Economic and Other Factors

Aerospace
operating results are principally driven by:

•

New aircraft production rates
 and delivery schedules set by commercial air transport, regional jet,
 business and general aviation OE manufacturers, as well as airline
 profitability, platform mix and retirement of aircraft from service;


Aerospace

Aerospace sales by major customer end-markets were as follows:

2010 compared
with 2009

Aerospace
sales decreased by 1 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to a 1
percent reduction of revenue related to amounts recognized for payments to
business and general aviation original equipment manufacturers (OEM Payments)
to partially offset their pre-production costs associated with new aircraft
platforms.

Details
regarding the changes in sales by customer end-markets are as follows:

•

Air transport and regional
 original equipment (OE) sales decreased by 2 percent in 2010 primarily due to
 lower sales to our air transport OE customers.


Aerospace
segment profit decreased by 3 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due
to a negative 3 percent impact from the OEM payments, discussed above.
Operational segment profit was flat in 2010 with the approximate positive 4
percent impact from price and productivity, net of inflation (including the
absence of prior period labor cost actions offset by the benefits from prior
repositioning actions) offset by an approximate negative 4 percent impact from
lower sales volume. Cost of goods sold totaled $8.1 billion in 2010, unchanged
from 2009.

2009 compared
with 2008

Aerospace
sales decreased by 15 percent in 2009. Details regarding the decrease in sales
by customer end-markets are as follows:

Aerospace
segment profit decreased by 18 percent in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily
to lower sales as a result of the factors discussed above and inflation,
partially offset by volume related material cost reductions and reduced labor
costs (reflecting reduced census, work schedule reductions, benefits from prior
repositioning actions and lower incentive compensation), the positive impact of
cost savings initiatives and increased prices.

2011 Areas of
Focus

Aerospace’s
primary areas of focus for 2011 include:


Automation and Control Solutions (ACS)

Overview

ACS
provides innovative products and solutions that make homes, buildings,
industrial sites and infrastructure more efficient, safe and comfortable. Our
ACS products and services include controls for heating, cooling, indoor air
quality, ventilation, humidification, lighting and home automation; advanced
software applications for home/building control and optimization; sensors,
switches, control systems and instruments for measuring pressure, air flow,
temperature and electrical current; security, fire and gas detection; personal
protection equipment; access control; video surveillance; remote patient
monitoring systems; products for automatic identification and data collection,
installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems that keep buildings safe,
comfortable and productive; and automation and control solutions for industrial
plants, including advanced software and automation systems that integrate,
control and monitor complex processes in many types of industrial settings as
well as equipment that controls, measures and analyzes natural gas production
and transportation.

Economic and Other Factors

ACS’s
operating results are principally driven by:


Automation and
Control Solutions

2010 compared with 2009

Automation
and Control Solutions (“ACS”) sales increased by 9 percent in 2010
compared with 2009, primarily due to a 6 percent increase in organic revenue
driven by increased sales volume and 3 percent growth from acquisitions.

•

Sales in our Products businesses
 increased by 11 percent in 2010 primarily reflecting higher sales volumes in
 our businesses tied to industrial production (environmental and combustion
 controls, sensing and control, gas detection, personal protective equipment
 and scanning and mobility products), new product introductions and acquisitions,
 primarily Sperian.

•

Sales in our Solutions
 businesses increased by 6 percent in 2010 primarily due to the positive
 impact of increased volume, acquisitions, net of divestitures (primarily the
 RMG Group), net of divestitures, higher prices and growth in energy
 efficiency projects and industrial field solutions driven by orders growth
 and conversion to sales from order backlog. Orders and backlog increased in
 2010 compared to 2009 primarily driven by energy efficiency projects,
 refining and natural gas infrastructure projects and growth in emerging
 regions.

ACS
segment profit increased by 11 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 due to a 9
percent increase in operational segment profit and 2 percent increase from
acquisitions. The increase in operational segment profit is comprised of an
approximate 18 percent positive impact from higher sales volume, partially
offset by an approximate 9 percent negative impact from inflation, net of price
and productivity (including the absence of prior period labor cost actions,
partially offset by the benefits of prior repositioning). Cost of goods sold
totaled $9.3 billion in 2010, an increase of approximately $750 million which
is primarily as a result of the factors discussed above.

2009 compared
with 2008

ACS
sales decreased by 10 percent in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to
decreased sales volume (reflecting slower global economic growth) and an
unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 4 percent, partially offset by a 3
percent growth from acquisitions.

•

Sales in our Products businesses
 decreased by 11 percent, including (i) lower volumes of sales in each of our
 businesses (excluding the impact of acquisitions) and (ii) the unfavorable
 impact of foreign exchange. Softness in residential and industrial
 end-markets was partially offset by the positive impact of acquisitions, most
 significantly Norcross Safety Products.

•

Sales in our Solutions
 businesses decreased by 9 percent primarily due to the unfavorable impact of
 foreign exchange and volume decreases largely due to softening demand as a
 result of customer


deferral of capital and
 operating expenditures. Orders decreased while backlog increased
 in 2009. Decreased orders are primarily due to the unfavorable impact of
 foreign exchange, softening demand (as noted above) and order timing and
 delays. Higher backlog is primarily due to longer duration projects. The
 impact of these factors was partially offset by the positive impact of
 acquisitions, most significantly the RMG Group.

ACS
segment profit decreased by 2 percent in 2009 compared with 2008 principally
due to the negative impact of lower sales as a result of the factors discussed
above and inflation, partially offset by lower material costs, reduced labor
costs (reflecting reduced census, work schedule reductions, benefits from prior
repositioning actions and lower incentive compensation) and the positive impact
of indirect cost savings initiatives. In the fourth quarter of 2009 these
factors more than offset the impact of lower sales described above resulting in
a 5 percent increase in segment profit.

Areas of Focus

ACS’s
primary areas of focus for 2011 include:

Specialty Materials

Overview

Specialty
Materials develops and manufactures high-purity, high-quality and
high-performance chemicals and materials for applications in the refining,
petrochemical, automotive, healthcare, agricultural, packaging, refrigeration,
appliance, housing, semiconductor, wax and adhesives segments. Specialty
Materials also provides process technology, products and services for the
petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical, renewable energy and other
industries. Specialty Materials’ product portfolio includes fluorocarbons,
hydrofluoroolefins, caprolactam, resins, ammonium sulfate for fertilizer,
specialty films, waxes, additives, advanced fibers, customized research
chemicals and intermediates, electronic materials and chemicals, catalysts, and
adsorbents.

Economic
and Other Factors

Specialty
Materials operating results are principally driven by:


•

Global demand for
 commodities such as caprolactam and ammonium sulfate; and

•

Increasing demand
 for renewable energy and biofuels.

Specialty Materials

2010 compared
with 2009

Specialty
Materials sales increased by 14 percent in 2010 compared with 2009
predominantly due to organic growth.

•

Advanced Materials sales
 increased by 23 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily driven by (i) a 29
 percent increase in Resins and Chemicals sales primarily due to higher prices
 driven by strong Asia demand, formula pricing arrangements and agricultural
 demand, (ii) a 21 percent increase in Specialty Products sales most
 significantly due to higher sales volume to our semiconductor, specialty
 additives, advanced fiber industrial applications and specialty chemicals
 customers, (iii) a 19 percent increase in our Fluorine Products business due
 to higher sales volume from increased demand for our refrigerants, insulating
 materials and industrial processing aids.

•

UOP sales decreased by 1 percent
 in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily driven by lower new unit catalyst sales
 and timing of projects activity in the refining and petrochemical industries,
 partially offset by increased gas processing equipment sales.

Specialty
Materials segment profit increased by 24 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 due
to a 25 percent increase in operational segment profit. The increase in
operational segment profit is primarily due to a 24 percent positive impact
from higher sales volumes. The positive impact from price and productivity was
offset by the negative impact from inflation (including the absence of prior
period labor cost actions). Cost of goods sold totaled $3.6 billion in 2010, an
increase of approximately $400 million which is primarily as a result of the factors
discussed above.

2009 compared
with 2008

Specialty
Materials sales decreased by 21 percent in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily
driven by (i) a 32 percent decrease in Resins and Chemicals sales due to
substantial price declines arising from pass through of lower raw materials
costs, partially offset by increased volume (most notably in the fourth
quarter), (ii) a 19 percent decrease in UOP sales due to customer deferrals of
projects as a result of reduced demand for additional capacity in the refining
and petrochemical industries as well as lower catalyst sales, (iii) a 22
percent decrease in Specialty Products sales most significantly due to
continued demand softness across key customer end-markets, and (iv) an 11
percent decrease in Fluorine Products sales due to lower volume sales of
refrigerants and insulating materials principally driven by customer inventory
reduction initiatives and soft construction and original equipment
manufacturing end markets, partially offset by price increases.


Specialty
Materials segment profit decreased by 16 percent in 2009 compared with 2008.
This decrease is principally due to lower sales as a result of the factors
discussed above, partially offset by lower material costs, reduced labor costs
(reflecting reduced census, work schedule reductions and lower incentive
compensation), the positive impact of indirect cost savings initiatives and
increased prices. In the fourth quarter of 2009 these factors more than offset
the impact of lower sales described above resulting in a 56 percent increase in
segment profit.

Areas of Focus

Specialty
Materials primary areas of focus for 2011 include:

Transportation Systems

Overview

Transportation
Systems provides automotive products that improve the performance, efficiency,
and appearance of cars, trucks, and other vehicles through state-of-the-art
technologies, world class brands and global solutions to customers’ needs.
Transportation Systems’ products include turbochargers and charge-air and
thermal systems; car care products including anti-freeze (Prestone(R)), filters
(Fram(R)), spark plugs (Autolite(R)), and cleaners, waxes and additives
(Holts(R)); and brake hard parts and other friction materials (Bendix(R) and
Jurid(R)). Transportation Systems sells its products to original equipment
(“OE”) automotive and truck manufacturers (e.g., BMW, Caterpillar, Daimler,
Renault, Ford, and Volkswagen), wholesalers and distributors and through the
retail aftermarket.

Economic
and Other Factors

Transportation
Systems operating results are principally driven by:


Transportation
system

2010 compared
with 2009

Transportation
Systems sales increased by 24 percent in 2010 compared with the 2009 primarily
due to a 25 percent increase in organic revenue driven by increased sales
volume, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1
percent.

•

Turbo Technologies sales
 increased 31 percent primarily due to increased turbocharger sales to both
 light vehicle and commercial vehicle engine manufacturers partially offset by
 the negative impacts of foreign exchange. We expect increased volume to
 continue in 2011 as we benefit from new platform launches and continued
 strong diesel penetration rates in Western Europe.

•

Consumer Products Group (“CPG”)
 sales increased 7 percent, primarily due to higher prices (primarily pass
 through of ethylene glycol cost increases) and higher volume of antifreeze
 products in the fourth quarter.

Transportation
Systems segment profit increased by $317 million in 2010 compared with 2009
predominantly due to the positive impact from increased sales volume. Cost of
goods sold totaled $3.4 billion in 2010, an increase of approximately $500 million
which is also primarily a result of increased sales volume.

2009 compared
with 2008

Transportation
Systems sales decreased by 27 percent in 2009 compared with the 2008, primarily
due to lower volumes (driven by the ongoing challenging global automotive
industry conditions) and the negative impact of foreign exchange in the first
nine months of 2009.

•

Turbo Technologies sales,
 including Friction Materials, decreased by 32 percent primarily due to lower
 sales volumes to both our commercial and light vehicle engine manufacturing
 customers and the negative impact of foreign exchange. Diesel penetration
 rates in Western Europe declined in the first nine months of 2009 and there
 was a shift in consumer preference towards lower displacement engines. Full
 year 2009 sales decline was partially offset by a 19 percent sales increase
 during the fourth quarter primarily due to the positive impact of foreign
 exchange and higher sales volumes to our light vehicle engine manufacturing
 customers.

•

CPG sales decreased by 8 percent
 primarily due to lower prices (primarily pass through of ethylene glycol cost
 decreases), lower volumes, and the negative impact of foreign exchange.

Transportation
Systems segment profit decreased by $ 250 million in 2009 compared with 2008
due principally to lower sales volume as a result of the factors discussed
above partially offset by lower material costs, reduced labor costs (reflecting
reduced census, work schedule reductions, benefits from prior repositioning
actions and lower incentive compensation) and the positive impact of indirect
cost savings initiatives. In the fourth


quarter of
2009 these factors and increased Turbo Technologies volumes resulted in a $66
million increase in Transportation Systems’ segment profit.

Areas of Focus

Transportation
Systems primary areas of focus in 2011 include:

Repositioning and Other Charges

See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a discussion of repositioning and other
charges incurred in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Our repositioning actions are
expected to generate incremental pretax savings of approximately $200 million
in 2011 compared with 2010 principally from planned workforce reductions. Cash
expenditures for severance and other exit costs necessary to execute our
repositioning actions were $151, $200, and $157 million in 2010, 2009, and
2008, respectively. Such expenditures for severance and other exit costs have
been funded principally through operating cash flows. Cash expenditures for
severance and other costs necessary to execute the remaining actions will
approximate a total of $150 million in 2011 and will be funded through
operating cash flows.

The
following tables provide details of the pretax impact of total net
repositioning and other charges by segment.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The
Company continues to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as
the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and
operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit
lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings,
and access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as the ability to
sell trade accounts receivables. We continue to balance our cash and financing
uses through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity,
share repurchases and dividends.

Cash Flow Summary

Our
cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended 2010, 2009 and
2008, are summarized as follows:


compared with 2009

Cash
provided by operating activities increased by $257 million during 2010 compared
with 2009 primarily due to i) increased accrued expenses of $690 million (due
to increased customer advances and incentive compensation accruals), ii) a $550
million impact from increased deferred taxes (excluding the impact of cash
taxes), iii) increased net income of $474 million, iv) lower cash tax payments
of approximately $300 million and v) a $219 million decrease in payments for
repositioning and other charges, partially offset by a i) $1,059 unfavorable
impact from working capital driven by higher receivables and increased
purchases of raw materials and component inventory to support higher demand,
partially offset by a corresponding increase to accounts payable, ii) increased
pension and other postretirement payments of $598 million and iii) the absence
of $155 million sale of long-term receivables in 2009.

Cash
used for investing activities increased by $1,136 million during 2010 compared
with 2009 primarily due to an increase in cash paid for acquisitions of $835
million (most significantly Sperian Protection, discussed below), and a net
$341 million increase in investments in short-term marketable securities.

Cash
used for financing activities decreased by $105 million during 2010 compared to
the 2009 primarily due to a decrease in the net repayment of debt (including
commercial paper) of $287 million and an increase in the proceeds from the
issuance of common stock, primarily related to stock option exercises of $158
million, partially offset by the repayment of $326 million of debt assumed in
the acquisition of Sperian Protection (see below).

compared with 2008

Cash
provided by operating activities increased by $155 million during 2009 compared
with 2008 primarily due to i) a favorable impact from working capital of $577
million (primarily due to a decrease in inventory of $479 million driven by
reduced purchases of raw material and component inventory, lower production of
finished goods in line with decreased sales volumes and inventory reduction
initiatives across each of our segments), ii) lower cash tax payments of $449
million, iii) $155 million from the sale of long term receivables, iv)
increased net income of $742 million and v) a $718 million impact from
increased deferred income taxes (excluding the impact of cash tax payments
noted above), partially offset by i) decreased pension expense of $2,312
million, ii) receipts from the sale of insurance receivables of $82 million in
2008, iii) a $56 million decreased impact from other current assets (most
significantly lower receipts from insurance receivables) and iv) higher
repositioning payments of $43 million.

Cash
used for investing activities decreased by $890 million during 2009 compared
with 2008 primarily due to a $1,713 million decrease in cash paid for
acquisitions (most significantly the acquisition of Norcross and Metrolgic in
2008) and a $275 million decrease in expenditures for property, plant, and
equipment, partially offset by a $908 million decrease in proceeds from sales
of businesses (most significantly the divestiture of Consumables Solutions in
2008).

Cash
used for financing activities increased by $782 million during 2009 compared
with 2008 primarily due to a net repayment of debt (including commercial paper)
in 2009 of $1,272 million compared to net proceeds (including commercial paper)
of $733 million in 2008 partially offset by a decrease in repurchases of common
stock of $1,459 million.

Liquidity

Each
of our businesses is focused on implementing strategies to improve working
capital turnover in 2011 to increase operating cash flows. Considering the
current economic environment in which each of our businesses operate and our
business plans and strategies, including our focus on growth, cost reduction
and productivity


initiatives,
we believe that our cash balances and operating cash flows will remain our
principal source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating
cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines,
short term debt from the commercial paper markets, long-term borrowings, and
access to the public debt and equity markets, as well as our ability to sell
trade accounts receivables.

A
source of liquidity is our ability to issue short-term debt in the commercial
paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity
of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the
commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well
as for financing potential acquisitions. There was $299 million of commercial
paper outstanding at December 31, 2010.

Our
ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these
borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market
conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent
debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2010, Standard and Poor’s (S&P),
Fitch, and Moody’s have ratings on our long-term debt of A, A and A2
respectively, and short-term debt of A-1, F1 and P1 respectively. S&P, Fitch and Moody’s have Honeywell’s rating outlook as “stable”. To date, the company has not experienced any limitations
in our ability to access these sources of liquidity. We maintain a $2.8 billion
committed bank revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes,
including support for the issuance of commercial paper, which expires in
mid-May 2012. At December 31, 2010, there were no borrowings or letters of
credit issued under the credit facility. The credit facility does not restrict
Honeywell’s ability to pay dividends, nor does it contain financial covenants.
We expect to refinance the credit facility in 2011.

In
the first quarter of 2010, the Company repaid $1,000 million of its 7.50%
notes. The repayment was funded with cash provided by operating activities.

In
October 2010, we completed the acquisition of the issued and outstanding shares
of Sperian Protection (Sperian), a French company that operates globally in the
personal protection equipment design and manufacturing industry. The aggregate
value, net of cash acquired, was approximately $1,475 million, including the
assumption of approximately $326 million of outstanding debt.

We
also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities, common
stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms
to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering
would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing
indebtedness, capital expenditures and acquisitions.

As
a source of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts
receivables to third parties. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, none of the
receivables in the designated pools had been sold to third parties. When we
sell receivables, they are over-collateralized and we retain a subordinated
interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization as
well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. The
terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit the repurchase of
receivables from the third parties at our discretion, providing us with an
additional source of revolving credit. As a result, program receivables remain
on the Company’s balance sheet with a corresponding amount recorded as either
Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.

We
monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash
equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal
and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. We diversify our cash and
cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these
entities.

Global
economic conditions or a tightening of credit markets could adversely affect
our customers’ or suppliers’ ability to obtain financing, particularly in our
long-cycle businesses and airline and automotive end markets. Customer or
supplier bankruptcies, delays in their ability to obtain financing, or the
unavailability of financing could adversely affect our cash flow or results of
operations. To date we have not experienced material impacts from customer or
supplier bankruptcy or liquidity issues. We continue to monitor and take
measures to limit our exposure.

In addition
to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash
requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends,
employee benefit obligations, environmental remediation costs, asbestos claims,
severance and exit costs related to repositioning actions, share repurchases
and any strategic acquisitions.

Specifically,
we expect our primary cash requirements in 2011 to be as follows:


We
continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as
to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order
to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify business units that will most
benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will
further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also
identify businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on
their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These
businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other
repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. In 2008 we realized
$909 million in cash proceeds from sales of non-strategic businesses.

In
    January 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its
    Consumer Products Group business (CPG) to Rank Group Limited for approximately
    $950 million. The sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions,
    including the receipt of regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the
    third quarter of 2011. We currently estimate that the transaction will result
    in a pre-tax gain of approximately $350 million, approximately $200 million
    net of tax. The sale of CPG, within the Transportation Systems segment, is
    consistent with the Company’s strategic
focus on its portfolio of differentiated global technologies.

In July
2008, the Company completed the sale of its Consumables Solutions business to
B/E Aerospace (“B/E”) for $1.05 billion, consisting of approximately $901
million in cash and six million shares of B/E common stock. As discussed in
Note 3 to the financial statements, this transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain
of $623 million, $417 million net of tax. These proceeds, along with our other
sources and uses of liquidity, as discussed above, were utilized to invest in
our existing core businesses and fund acquisition activity, share repurchases
and dividends.


Based on
past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash
flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Our available
cash, committed credit lines, access to the public debt and equity markets as
well as our ability to sell trade accounts receivables, provide additional
sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt
maturities, and future investment opportunities. Based on our current financial
position and expected economic performance.

Contractual Obligations and Probable
Liability Payments

Following
is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability
payments at December 31, 2010:


(6)

The table excludes
 $757 million of uncertain tax positions. See Note 6 to the financial
 statements.

The table also
 excludes our pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) obligations. In
 January 2011, we made a voluntary cash contribution of $1 billion to our U.S.
 plans to improve the funded status of our plans. In addition, the company is
 evaluating additional voluntary contributions in 2011. We also expect to make
 contributions to our non-U.S. plans of approximately $55 million in 2011.
 Beyond 2011, the actual amounts required to be contributed are dependent
 upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the
 impact of legislative or regulatory actions related to pension funding
 obligations. Payments due under our OPEB plans are not required to be funded
 in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree
 populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree
 medical benefits under our plans. We expect our OPEB payments to approximate
 $188 million in 2011 net of the benefit of approximately $13 million from the
 Medicare prescription subsidy. See Note 22 to the financial statements for
 further discussion of our pension and OPEB plans.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Following
is a summary of our off-balance sheet arrangements:

Guarantees

—We have issued or are a party to
the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2010:

We do not
expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

In
connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have
indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of
environmental contamination, if any, existing on the date of disposition. Such
expected costs are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial
efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.

Environmental Matters

We are
subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements
relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general
matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and that our
handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous substances are in
accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like
other companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response
and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits
and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits,
claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to
arise in the future.

With
respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually
conduct studies, individually or jointly, with other potentially responsible
parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques to address
environmental matters. It is our policy (see Note 1 to the financial
statements) to record appropriate liabilities for environmental matters when
remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be
reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the
undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded
liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as
additional technical or legal information becomes available. Given the


uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement
policies, the impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and
information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to
develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss in
excess of our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund expenditures for these
matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a
number of factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of
remediation liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory
approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial
techniques to be utilized and agreements with other parties.

Remedial
response and voluntary cleanup payments were $266, $318 and $320 million in 2010,
2009 and 2008

,
respectively, and are currently estimated to be approximately $325 million in
2011. We expect to fund such expenditures from operating cash flow.

Remedial
response and voluntary cleanup costs charged against pretax earnings were $225,
$151 and $466 million in 2010,


and 2008

, respectively. At December 31, 2010
and 2009, the recorded liabilities for environmental matters was $753 and $779
million, respectively. In addition, in 2010 and 2009 we incurred operating
costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $86 and $73 million,
respectively, relating to compliance with environmental regulations.

Although we
do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies,
litigation or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the
ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they
could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash
flows in the periods recognized or paid. However, considering our past
experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that environmental matters
will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.

See Note 21
to the financial statements for a discussion of our commitments and
contingencies, including those related to environmental matters and toxic tort
litigation.

Financial Instruments

As a result
of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market
risks from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates and
commodity prices, which may adversely affect our operating results and
financial position. We minimize our risks from interest and foreign currency
exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations through our normal operating and
financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of
derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial
instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and do not use leveraged
derivative financial instruments. A summary of our accounting policies for
derivative financial instruments is included in Note 1 to the financial
statements. We also hold investments in marketable equity securities, which
exposes us to market volatility, as discussed in Note 16 to the financial
statements.

We conduct
our business on a multinational basis in a wide variety of foreign currencies.
Our exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates
arises from international financing activities between subsidiaries, foreign
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and anticipated
transactions arising from international trade. Our objective is to preserve the
economic value of non-functional currency cash flows. We attempt to hedge
transaction exposures with natural offsets to the fullest extent possible and,
once these opportunities have been exhausted, through foreign currency forward
and option agreements with third parties. Our principal currency exposures
relate to the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Hong Kong
dollar, Mexican peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese renminbi, Indian
rupee, Singapore dollar and Swedish krona.

Our
exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates relates primarily to our
net debt and pension obligations. As described in Notes 14 and 16 to the
financial statements, we issue both fixed and variable rate debt and use
interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate movements and
reduce overall borrowing costs.

Financial
instruments, including derivatives, expose us to counterparty credit risk for
nonperformance and to market risk related to changes in interest or currency
exchange rates. We manage our exposure to counterparty credit risk through
specific minimum credit standards, diversification of counterparties, and procedures
to monitor concentrations of credit risk. Our counterparties are substantial
investment and commercial banks with significant experience using such
derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value
and expected future cash flows of our derivative and other financial
instruments considering reasonably possible changes in interest and currency
exchange rates and restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to
hedging activities.


The
following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest
rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate
one-percentage-point increase in interest rates across all maturities, the
potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments
based on a 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar versus local currency
exchange rates across all maturities, and the potential change in fair value of
contracts hedging commodity purchases based on a 20 percent decrease in the
price of the underlying commodity across all maturities at December 31, 2010
and 2009.

The above
discussion of our procedures to monitor market risk and the estimated changes
in fair value resulting from our sensitivity analyses are forward-looking
statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results
due to actual developments in the global financial markets. The methods used by
us to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered
projections of future events.


CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
POLICIES

The
preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and
application of accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates
and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. We
consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to the
understanding of our financial statements. Actual results could differ from our
estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our
consolidated financial statements.

We have
discussed the selection, application and disclosure of these critical
accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our
Independent Registered Public Accountants. New accounting standards effective
in 2010 which had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements
are described in the Recent Accounting Pronouncements section in Note 1 to the
financial statements.

Contingent Liabilities

—We are subject to a number of
lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar
amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business operations or
those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial
transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos),
prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual
property, and environmental, health and safety matters. We recognize a
liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably
estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or
outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of
probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies
based on a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal
counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making
judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental
matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future
asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most
contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in
the future due to new developments (including new discovery of facts, changes
in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system),
changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. For a discussion
of our contingencies related to environmental, asbestos and other matters,
including management’s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of
specific liabilities, see Notes 1 and 21 to the financial statements.

Asbestos
Related Contingencies and Insurance Recoveries

—We are a defendant in personal
injury actions related to products containing asbestos (refractory and friction
products). We recognize a liability for any asbestos related contingency that
is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. Regarding North American
Refractories Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we accrued for pending
claims based on terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, in
definitive agreements or agreements in principle with current claimants. We also
accrued for the probable value of future NARCO asbestos related claims through
2018 based on the disease criteria and payment values contained in the NARCO
trust as described in Note 21 to the financial statements. In light of the
inherent uncertainties in making long term projections regarding claims filing
rates and disease manifestation, we do not believe that we have a reasonable
basis for estimating NARCO asbestos claims beyond 2018. Regarding Bendix
asbestos related claims, we accrued for the estimated value of pending claims
based on expected claim resolution values and historic dismissal rates. We also
accrued for the estimated cost of future anticipated claims related to Bendix
for the next five years based on our assessment of additional claims that may
be brought against us and anticipated resolution values in the tort system. We
value Bendix pending and future claims using the average resolution values for
the previous five years. We will continue to update the expected resolution
values used to estimate the cost of pending and future Bendix claims during the
fourth quarter each year. For additional information see Note 21 to the
financial statements. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse
judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential ranges of
probable losses and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies
based on an analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside
legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts.

In
connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we
record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In
assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning
insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our
historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent
solvency issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant
to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any
settlements with our insurers. At December 31, 2010, we have recorded insurance
receivables of $718 million that can be specifically allocated to NARCO related
asbestos liabilities. We also have $1.9 billion in coverage remaining for
Bendix related asbestos liabilities although there are gaps in our coverage due
to insurance company insolvencies, certain uninsured periods and insurance
settlements. Our insurance is with both the domestic insurance market and the
London excess market. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers
are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been
considered in our analysis of


probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various
uncertainties that could cause the insurance recovery on asbestos related
liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the
inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we reevaluate our
projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in light of any changes
to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors
that may impact future insurance recoveries. See Note 21 to the financial
statements for a discussion of management’s judgments applied in the
recognition and measurement of insurance recoveries for asbestos related
liabilities.

Defined
Benefit Pension Plans

—

We sponsor both funded and
unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering the majority
of our employees and retirees.

In
2010, we elected to change our method of recognizing pension expense.
Previously, for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans we used the
market-related value of plan assets reflecting changes in the fair value of
plan assets over a three-year period. Further, net actuarial gains or losses
    in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan
    assets or the plans’ projected benefit obligation (the corridor) were
    recognized over a six-year period. Under our new accounting method which
    we adopted in 2010, we will recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets
    and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of the corridor annually in the
    fourth quarter each year (MTM Adjustment). This new accounting method results
    in faster recognition of net actuarial gains and losses than our previous
    amortization method. Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual
    experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our
    pension plans or when assumptions change as they may each year. The primary
factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount
rate used to value pension obligations as of the measurement date each year and
the differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets. This
accounting method also results in the potential for volatile and difficult to
forecast MTM adjustments. MTM adjustments were $471, $741 and $3,290 million
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remaining components of pension
    expense, primarily service and interest costs and assumed return on plan
    assets, will be recorded on a quarterly basis (On-going Pension Expense).
    See Note 1 to the financial statements for further details of the change
    and the impact of our retrospective application of the new policy.

For
financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense is calculated based
upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan
obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We
determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing
historic and expected plan asset returns over varying long-term periods
combined with current market conditions and broad asset mix considerations (see
Note 22 to the financial statements for details on the actual various asset
classes and targeted asset allocation percentages for our pension plans). The
discount rate reflects the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for
high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our
benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. Further information on
all our major actuarial assumptions is included in Note 22 to the financial
statements.

The key
assumptions used in developing our 2010, 2009 and 2008 net periodic pension expense for
our U.S. plans included the following:




Discount rate

5.75

%

6.95

%

6.50

%

Assets:

Expected rate of return


%


%


%

Actual rate of return


%


%

(29

%)

Actual 10 year average annual
 compounded rate of return


%


%


%

The
discount rate can be volatile from year to year because it is determined based
upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We will use a 5.25
percent discount rate in 2011, reflecting the decrease in the market interest
rate environment since December 31, 2009. We will use an expected rate of
return on plan assets of 8 percent for 2011 down from 9 percent in 2010 due to
lower future expected market returns.

In addition
to the potential for MTM adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on
plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also affects
future on-going pension expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity
of our U.S. pension obligations and on-going expense to changes in these


assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates
exclude any potential MTM adjustment:

On-going
pension expense for all of our pension plans is expected to be approximately
$110 million in 2011, a decrease of $79 million from 2010, due primarily to a
voluntary contribution of $1 billion in cash to our U.S. pension plans in
January 2011 and strong 2010 asset returns. Also, if required,
an MTM adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 in accordance
with our new pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult
to reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a MTM adjustment in 2011,
and if one is required what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM
adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control
of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance of the
financial markets.

In 2010,
2009 and 2008,

we were not required to make contributions to satisfy minimum statutory funding
requirements in our U.S. pension plans. However, we made voluntary
contributions of $1,000, $740 and $242 million to our U.S. pension plans in

2010, 2009
and 2008

,
respectively, primarily to improve the funded status of our plans which had
deteriorated during 2008 due to the significant asset losses resulting from the
poor performance of the equity markets. In 2011, we are still not required to
make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans to satisfy minimum statutory
funding requirements. However, in January 2011 we made a voluntary cash
contribution of $1 billion to our U.S. plans to improve the funded status of
our plans. In addition, the Company is evaluating additional voluntary
contributions in 2011. The timing and amount of contributions may be impacted
by a number of factors, including the rate of return on plan assets and
discount rate. We also expect to contribute approximately $55 million to our
non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2011 to satisfy regulatory funding
standards.

Long-Lived
Assets (including Tangible and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets)

—To conduct our global business
operations and execute our business strategy, we acquire tangible and
intangible assets, including property, plant and equipment and definite-lived
intangible assets. At December 31, 2010, the net carrying amount of these
long-lived assets totaled $7.0 billion. The determination of useful lives (for
depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not these assets are
impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in
which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance
if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We periodically
evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of a long-lived asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors
we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review are as follows:

Once it is
determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is
measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to
be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the
carrying amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to
utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually
either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 in the fair value
hierarchy or an estimate of the future


discounted cash flow, level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The key
estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include expected industry growth
rates, our assumptions as to volume, selling prices and costs, and the discount
rate selected. As described in more detail in Note 16 to the financial statements,
we have recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets of $30 and $28
million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, principally related to manufacturing
plant and equipment in facilities scheduled to close or be downsized.

Goodwill
Impairment Testing

—Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs
over the fair value of the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible
assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but is
subject to impairment testing. Our Goodwill balance, $11.6 billion as of
December 31,


, is subject to impairment testing annually as of
March 31, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. This testing compares carrying values
to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value is reduced to fair
value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated utilizing a
discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts in our five year
strategic and annual operating plans adjusted for terminal value assumptions.
This impairment test involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions,
changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating
performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. To
address this uncertainty we perform sensitivity analysis on key estimates and
assumptions.

We
completed our annual impairment test as of March 31, 2010 and determined that
there was no impairment as of that date. However, significant negative industry
or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes
or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization
declines may have a negative effect on the fair value of our reporting units.

Income
Taxes

—

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
the difference between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences
are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic
and international statutory income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we
operate. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions
as well as deferred tax asset and liability balances, including the estimation
of valuation allowances and the evaluation of tax positions.

As
of December 31, 2010, we recognized a net deferred tax asset of $2,015 million,
less a valuation allowance of $636 million. Net deferred tax assets are
primarily comprised of net deductible temporary differences, net operating loss
carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce taxable
income in future periods. The determination of the amount of valuation
allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates
regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary
differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax
planning strategies. A valuation allowance is established to offset any
deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence it is more likely
than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In
assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
positive and negative evidence, including past operating results, projections
of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning
strategies. The projections of future taxable income include a number of
estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs.
Additionally, valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be
impacted by changes to tax laws.

Our
net deferred tax asset of $2,015 million consists of $1,254 million related to
U.S. operations and $761 million related to non-U.S. operations. The U.S. net
deferred tax asset of $1,254 million consists of net deductible temporary
differences, tax credit carryforwards, federal and state tax net operating
losses which we believe will more likely than not be realized through the
generation of future taxable income in the U.S. and tax planning strategies. We
maintain a valuation allowance of $3 million against such asset related to
state net operating losses. The non-U.S. net deferred tax asset of $761 million
consists principally of net operating and capital loss carryforwards, mainly in
the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany. We maintain a
valuation allowance of $634 million against these deferred tax assets
reflecting our historical experience and lower expectations of taxable income
over the applicable carryforward periods. As more fully described in Note 6 to
the financial statements, our valuation allowance increased by $58 million in
2010 and increased by $133 million and decreased by $45 million in 2009 and
2008, respectively. In the event we determine that we will not be able to
realize our net deferred tax assets in the future, we will reduce such amounts
through a charge to income in the period such determination is made.
Conversely, if we determine that we will be able to realize net deferred tax
assets in excess of the carrying amounts, we will decrease the recorded
valuation allowance through a credit to income in the period that such
determination is made.

Significant
judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax
positions. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite
the belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain
positions that do not meet the minimum probability threshold, as defined by the
authoritative guidance for uncertainty in income taxes, which is a tax position
that is more likely than not to be sustained upon


examination
by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal course of business, the
Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various Federal, State and foreign
tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these
examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining
the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the
likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax
provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which
the facts that give rise to a revision become known.

Sales
Recognition on Long-Term Contracts

—In 2010, we recognized
approximately 14 percent of our total net sales using the
percentage-of-completion method for long-term contracts in our Automation and
Control Solutions, Aerospace and Specialty Materials segments. These long-term
contracts are measured on the cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts
and the units-of-delivery basis for production-type contracts. Accounting for
these contracts involves management judgment in estimating total contract
revenue and cost. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated
contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract
options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with
technical performance and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or
index-based clauses). Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which
can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires management
judgment. Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase
contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections.
Significant factors that influence these estimates include inflationary trends,
technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends,
business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor
agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are regularly monitored and revised
based on changes in circumstances. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts
are recognized when such losses become evident. We maintain financial controls
over the customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to
reduce the risk of contract losses.


OTHER MATTERS

Litigation

See
Note 21 to the financial statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos
and other litigation matters

.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See
Note 1 to the financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting
pronouncements.

I

tem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk

Information
relating to market risk is included in Item 7. Management Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Financial
Instruments”.


I

TEM 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

Honeywell International Inc.

Con

solidated Statement of Operations

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.


Honeywell International Inc.

C

onsolidated Balance Sheet

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.


Honeywell International Inc.

Co

nsolidated Statement of Cash Flows

The Notes to Financial
Statements are an integral part of this statement.


Honeywell International Inc.

Consolidated Statement
 of Shareowners

Equity

The Notes to Financial
Statements are integral part of this statement.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

N

OTES TO
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies

Accounting Principles

—The financial statements and
accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. The following is a
description of the significant accounting policies of Honeywell International
Inc.

Principles of Consolidation

—The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Honeywell International Inc. and all of its
subsidiaries and entities in which a controlling interest is maintained. Our
consolidation policy requires equity investments that we exercise significant
influence over but do not control the investee and are not the primary
beneficiary of the investee’s activities to be accounted for using the equity
method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant
influence over the investee and which we do not have readily determinable fair
values are accounted for under the cost method. All intercompany transactions
and balances are eliminated in consolidation.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

—Cash and cash equivalents include
cash on hand and on deposit and highly liquid, temporary cash investments with
an original maturity of three months or less.

Inventories

—Inventories are valued at the lower
of cost or market using the first-in, first-out or the average cost method and
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for certain qualifying domestic
inventories.

Investments

—Investments in affiliates over
which we have a significant influence, but not a controlling interest, are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Other investments are carried
at market value, if readily determinable, or at cost. All equity investments
are periodically reviewed to determine if declines in fair value below cost
basis are other-than-temporary. Significant and sustained decreases in quoted
market prices or a series of historic and projected operating losses by
investees are strong indicators of other-than-temporary declines. If the
decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment
loss is recorded and the investment is written down to a new carrying value.

Property, Plant and Equipment

—Property, plant and equipment are
recorded at cost, including any asset retirement obligations, less accumulated
depreciation. For financial reporting, the straight-line method of depreciation
is used over the estimated useful lives of 10 to 50 years for buildings and
improvements and 2 to 16 years for machinery and equipment. Recognition of the
fair value of obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived
assets is required when there is a legal obligation to incur such costs. Upon
initial recognition of a liability, the cost is capitalized as part of the
related long-lived asset and depreciated over the corresponding asset’s useful
life. See Note 11 and Note 17 for additional details.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived
Intangible Assets

—Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value
of tangible net assets and identifiable intangible assets of businesses
acquired. Goodwill and certain other intangible assets deemed to have
indefinite lives are not amortized. Intangible assets determined to have
definite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Goodwill and indefinite
lived intangible assets are subject to impairment testing annually as of March
31, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be fully recoverable. This testing compares carrying values to
fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is
reduced to fair value. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of
March 31, 2010 and determined that there was no impairment as of that date. See
Note 12 for additional details on goodwill balances.

Other Intangible Assets with
Determinable Lives

—Other intangible assets with determinable lives
consist of customer lists, technology, patents and trademarks and other
intangibles and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 2
to 24 years.

Long-Lived Assets

—We periodically evaluate the
recoverability of the carrying amount of long-lived assets (including property,
plant and equipment and intangible assets with determinable lives) whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be fully recoverable. We evaluate events or changes in
circumstances based on a number of factors including operating results,
business plans and forecasts, general and industry trends and, economic
projections and anticipated cash flows. An impairment is assessed when the
undiscounted expected future cash flows derived from an asset are less than its
carrying amount. Impairment losses are measured as the amount by which the
carrying value of an asset exceeds its fair value and are recognized in
earnings. We also continually evaluate the estimated useful lives of all
long-lived assets and periodically revise such estimates based on current
events.

Sales Recognition

—Product and service sales are
recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product delivery
has occurred or services have been rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable,
and collection is reasonably assured. Service sales, principally representing
repair, maintenance and engineering activities in our Aerospace and Automation
and Control Solutions segments, are recognized over


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

the contractual period or as services are rendered. Sales under
long-term contracts in the Aerospace and Automation and Control Solutions
segments are recorded on a percentage-of-completion method measured on the
cost-to-cost basis for engineering-type contracts and the units-of-delivery
basis for production-type contracts. Provisions for anticipated losses on
long-term contracts are recorded in full when such losses become evident.
Revenues from contracts with multiple element arrangements are recognized as
each element is earned based on the relative fair value of each element provided
the delivered elements have value to customers on a standalone basis. Amounts
allocated to each element are based on its objectively determined fair value,
such as the sales price for the product or service when it is sold separately
or competitor prices for similar products or services.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

—We maintain allowances for doubtful
accounts for estimated losses as a result of customer’s inability to make
required payments. We estimate anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based
on days past due, as measured from the contractual due date, historical
collection history and incorporate changes in economic conditions that may not
be reflected in historical trends for example, customers in bankruptcy,
liquidation or reorganization. Receivables are written-off against the
allowance for doubtful accounts when they are determined uncollectible. Such
determination includes analysis and consideration of the particular conditions
of the account, including time intervals since last collection, success of
outside collection agencies activity, solvency of customer and any bankruptcy
proceedings.

Environmental Expenditures

—Environmental expenditures that
relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations,
and that do not provide future benefits, are expensed as incurred. Liabilities
are recorded when environmental remedial efforts or damage claim payments are
probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based
on our best estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the
remedial work. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as
remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal
information becomes available. Given the uncertainties regarding the status of
laws, regulations, enforcement policies, the impact of other potentially
responsible parties, technology and information related to individual sites, we
do not believe it is possible to develop an estimate of the range of reasonably
possible environmental loss in excess of our recorded liabilities.

Asbestos Related Contingencies and
Insurance Recoveries

—Honeywell is a defendant in personal injury actions
related to products containing asbestos (refractory and friction products). We
recognize a liability for any asbestos related contingency that is probable of
occurrence and reasonably estimable. Regarding North American Refractories
Company (NARCO) asbestos related claims, we accrue for pending claims based on
terms and conditions, including evidentiary requirements, in definitive
agreements or agreements in principle with current claimants. We also accrue
for the probable value of future NARCO asbestos related claims through 2018
based on the disease criteria and payment values contained in the NARCO trust
as described in Note 21. In light of the inherent uncertainties in making long term projections regarding claims
filing rates and disease manifestation, we do not believe that we have a
reasonable basis for estimating NARCO asbestos claims beyond 2018. Regarding
Bendix asbestos related claims, we accrue for the estimated value of pending
claims based on expected claim resolution values and historic dismissal rates.
We also accrue for the estimated cost of future anticipated claims related to
Bendix for the next five years based on our assessment of additional claims
that may be brought against us and anticipated resolution values in the tort system.
We value Bendix pending and future claims using average resolution values for
the previous five years. We will continue to update the expected resolution
values used to estimate the cost of pending and future Bendix claims during the
fourth quarter each year. For additional information see Note 21. We
continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our
contingencies, as well as potential ranges of probable losses and recognize a
liability, if any, for these contingencies based on an analysis of each
individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if
applicable, other experts.

In
connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we
record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In
assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning
insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our
historical experience with our insurers, our knowledge of any pertinent
solvency issues surrounding insurers, various judicial determinations relevant
to our insurance programs and our consideration of the impacts of any
settlements with our insurers.

Aerospace Sales Incentives

—We provide sales incentives to
commercial aircraft manufacturers and airlines in connection with their
selection of our aircraft equipment, predominately wheel and braking system
hardware and auxiliary power units, for installation on commercial aircraft.
These incentives principally consist of free or deeply discounted products, but
also include credits for future purchases of product and upfront cash payments.
These costs are recognized in the period incurred as cost of products sold or
as a reduction to sales,


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

as appropriate. For aircraft manufacturers, incentives are recorded
when the products are delivered; for airlines, incentives are recorded when the
associated aircraft are delivered by the aircraft manufacturer to the airline.

Research and Development

—Research and development costs for
company-sponsored research and development projects are expensed as incurred.
Such costs are principally included in Cost of Products Sold and were $1,466,
$1,330 and $1,543 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

—The principal awards issued under
our stock-based compensation plans, which are described in Note 20, include non-qualified
stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs). The cost for such awards is
measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award. The value of
the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as
expense over the requisite service periods (generally the vesting period of the
equity award) and is included in selling, general and administrative expense in
our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Forfeitures are required to be
estimated at the time of grant in order to estimate the portion of the award
that will ultimately vest. The estimate is based on our historical rates of
forfeiture.

Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits

—
We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension
plans covering the majority of our employees and retirees. We also sponsor
postretirement benefit plans that provide health care benefits and life
insurance coverage to eligible retirees.

In 2010 we
elected to change our method of recognizing pension expense. Previously, for
our U.S. defined benefit pension plans we used the market-related value of plan
assets reflecting changes in the fair value of plan assets over a three-year
period and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater
of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans’ projected benefit
obligation (the corridor) were recognized over a six-year period. Under our new
accounting method, we recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net
actuarial gains or losses in excess of the corridor annually in the fourth
quarter each year (MTM Adjustment). The remaining components of pension
expense, primarily service and interest costs and assumed return on plan
assets, will be recorded on a quarterly basis (On-going Pension Expense). While
the historical policy of recognizing pension expense was considered acceptable,
we believe that the new policy is preferable as it eliminates the delay in
recognition of actuarial gains and losses outside the corridor.

This change
has been reported through retrospective application of the new policy to all
periods presented. The impacts of all adjustments made to the financial
statements are summarized below:

Consolidated
Statement of Operations


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Consolidated Balance
Sheet

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Consolidated
Statement of Shareowners Equity

Foreign Currency Translation

—Assets and liabilities of
subsidiaries operating outside the United States with a functional currency
other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars using year-end
exchange rates. Sales, costs and expenses are translated at the average exchange
rates in effect during the year. Foreign currency translation gains and losses
are included as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).
For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories and
property, plant and equipment, including related expenses, are remeasured at
the exchange rate in effect on the date the assets were acquired, while
monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates.
Remeasurement adjustments for these subsidiaries are included in earnings.

Derivative Financial Instruments

—As a result of our global operating
and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks from changes in
interest and foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may
adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We minimize our
risks from interest and foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price
fluctuations through our normal operating and financing activities and, when
deemed appropriate through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risk and are not used for
trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use leveraged derivative
financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments used for hedging
purposes must be designated and effective as a hedge of the identified risk
exposure at the inception of the contract.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Accordingly, changes in fair value of the derivative contract must be
highly correlated with changes in fair value of the underlying hedged item at
inception of the hedge and over the life of the hedge contract.

All
derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities and
measured at fair value. For derivatives designated as hedges of the fair value
of assets or liabilities, the changes in fair values of both the derivatives
and the hedged items are recorded in current earnings. For derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the changes in fair
value of the derivatives are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged items impact
earnings. Cash flows of such derivative financial instruments are classified
consistent with the underlying hedged item.

Transfers of Financial Instruments

— Sales, transfers and
securitization of financial instruments are accounted for under authoritative
guidance for the transfers and servicing of financial assets and
extinguishments of liabilities.

We sell
interests in designated pools of trade accounts receivables to third parties.
The terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit the repurchase of
receivables from the third parties at our discretion. As a result, these
program receivables are not accounted for as a sale and remain on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet with a corresponding amount recorded as either
Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.

At times we
also transfer trade and other receivables that qualify as a sale and are thus
are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet at the time they are sold. The
value assigned to any subordinated interests and undivided interests retained
in receivables sold is based on the relative fair values of the interests
retained and sold. The carrying value of the retained interests approximates
fair value due to the short-term nature of the collection period for the receivables.

Income Taxes

—Deferred tax liabilities or assets
reflect temporary differences between amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial and tax reporting. Such amounts are adjusted, as appropriate, to
reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary
differences reverse. A valuation allowance is established to offset any
deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely
than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The
determination of the amount of a valuation allowance to be provided on recorded
deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding (1) the timing and amount of
the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable
income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies. In assessing the need
for a valuation allowance, we consider all available positive and negative
evidence, including past operating results, projections of future taxable
income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. The projections
of future taxable income include a number of estimates and assumptions
regarding our volume, pricing and costs. Additionally, valuation allowances
related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws.

Significant
judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax
positions. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite
the belief that tax positions are fully supportable, there remain certain positions
that do not meet the minimum probability threshold, as defined by the
authoritative guidance for uncertainty in income taxes, which is a tax position
that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable
taxing authority. In the normal course of business, the tax filings of the
Company and its subsidiaries are examined by various Federal, State and foreign
tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these
examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in
determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually
assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income
tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which
the facts that give rise to a revision become known.

Earnings Per Share

—Basic earnings per share is based
on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings
per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
and all dilutive potential common shares outstanding.

Use of Estimates

—The preparation of consolidated
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts in the financial statements and related disclosures in the
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates
and assumptions are periodically reviewed and the effects of revisions are
reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the period they are
determined to be necessary.

Reclassifications

—Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

—Changes to accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) are established
by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the form of accounting
standards updates (ASU’s) to the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification.

The Company
considers the applicability and impact of all ASU’s. ASU’s not listed below
were assessed and determined to be either not applicable or are expected to
have minimal impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.

In June
2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and disclosure requirements
for transfers of financial assets. The guidance requires additional disclosures
for transfers of financial assets and changes the requirements for
derecognizing financial assets. The guidance was effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2009. The implementation of this standard did not
have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of
operations.

In June
2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and disclosure
requirements for the consolidation of variable interest entities. The guidance
affects the overall consolidation analysis and requires enhanced disclosures on
involvement with variable interest entities. The guidance was effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The implementation of this
standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position
and results of operations.

In October
2009, the FASB issued amendments to the accounting and disclosure for revenue
recognition. These amendments, effective for fiscal years beginning on or after
June 15, 2010 (early adoption is permitted), modify the criteria for
recognizing revenue in multiple element arrangements and the scope of what
constitutes a non-software deliverable. The Company has elected to early adopt
this guidance, on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating
or materially modified after January 1, 2010. The implementation of this
amended accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position and results of operations in the period of adoption.
Adoption impacts in future periods will vary based upon the nature and volume
of new or materially modified transactions but are not expected to have a
significant impact on sales.

Note 2—Acquisitions and Divestitures

We acquired
businesses for an aggregate cost of $1,303, $468 and $2,181 million in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively. For all of our acquisitions the acquired
businesses were recorded at their estimated fair values at the dates of
acquisition. Significant acquisitions made in these years are discussed below.

In October
2010, we completed the acquisition of the issued and outstanding shares of
Sperian Protection (Sperian), a French company that operates globally in the
personal protection equipment design and manufacturing industry. Sperian had
reported 2009 revenues of approximately $900 million.

The
aggregate value, net of cash acquired, was approximately $1,475 million
(including the assumption of approximately $326 million of outstanding debt)
and was allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date.

The
following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets and
liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

We
have assigned $619 million to intangible assets, predominantly customer
relationships, trade names, and technology. These intangible assets are being
amortized over their estimated lives which range from 3 to 20 years using
straight line and accelerated amortization methods.

Included in this amount, a value of
approximately $203 million has been assigned to trade names intangibles
determined to have indefinite lives. The excess
of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is
approximately $898 million and was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill arises
primarily from the avoidance of the time and costs which would be required (and
the associated risks that would be encountered) to develop a business with a
product offering and customer base comparable to Sperian and the expected cost
synergies that will be realized through the consolidation of the acquired
business into our Automations and Controls Solutions segment. These cost
synergies are expected to be realized principally in the areas of selling,
general and administrative expenses, material sourcing and manufacturing. This
goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. The results from the acquisition
date through December 31, 2010 are included in the Automation and Control
Solutions segment and were not material to the consolidated financial
statements. As of December 31, 2010, the purchase accounting for Sperian is
subject to final adjustment primarily for useful lives of intangible assets,
amounts allocated to intangible assets and goodwill, for certain
pre-acquisition contingencies, and for settlement of post-closing purchase
price adjustments.

In August
2009, the Company completed the acquisition of the RMG Group (RMG Regel +
Messtechnik GmbH), a natural gas measuring and control products, services and
integrated solutions company, for a purchase price of approximately $416
million, net of cash acquired. The purchase price for the acquisition was
allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition
date. The Company has assigned $174 million to identifiable intangible assets,
predominantly customer relationships, existing technology and trademarks. These
intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated lives which range
from 1 to 15 years using straight-line and accelerated amortization methods.
The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of net assets
acquired (approximating $225 million), was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill
is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the
acquisition method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included in the
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The results
from the acquisition date through December 31, 2009 are included in the Automation
and Control Solutions segment and were not material to the consolidated
financial statements.

In May
2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Safety Products Holding, Inc,
which through its subsidiary Norcross Safety Products L.L.C. (Norcross) is a
leading manufacturer of personal protective equipment. The purchase price, net
of cash acquired, was approximately $1,221 million and was allocated to
tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date.

The
following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets and
liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The Company
has assigned $702 million to intangible assets, predominantly customer
relationships, trade names, and technology. These intangible assets are being
amortized over their estimated lives which range from 1 to 20 years using
straight line and accelerated amortization methods. The value assigned to the
trade names of approximately $257 million is classified as an indefinite lived
intangible. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of
net assets acquired (approximately $604 million) was recorded as goodwill. This
goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition was accounted for
by the purchase method, and, accordingly, results of operations are included
in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The
results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2008 are included in the
Automation and Control Solutions segment and were not material to the
consolidated financial statements.

In July
2008, the Company completed the sale of its Consumables Solutions business to
B/E Aerospace (B/E) for $1,050 million, consisting of approximately $901
million in cash and six million shares of B/E common stock. In connection with
the completion of the sale, the Company and B/E entered into, among other
things, exclusive supply and license agreements and a stockholder agreement.
Because of the extent of the Company’s cash flows associated with the supply
and license agreements, the Consumables Solutions business is not classified as
discontinued operations. The provisions of the license and supply agreements
were determined to be at-market. As such, we have not allocated any portion of
the proceeds to these agreements. The pre-tax gain of $623 million was
classified as Other (Income)/Expense in our Statement of Operations. The gain
on sale was approximately $417 million net of tax. The sale of the Consumables
Solutions business, within the Aerospace segment, is consistent with the
Company’s strategic focus on core product areas utilizing advanced
technologies.

In July
2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Metrologic Instruments, Inc.
(Metrologic), a leading manufacturer of data capture and collection hardware
and software, for a purchase price of approximately $715 million, net of cash
acquired. The purchase price for the acquisition was allocated to the tangible
and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
their estimated fair values at acquisition date. The Company has assigned $248
million to identifiable intangible assets, predominantly customer
relationships, technology and trademarks. These intangible assets are being
amortized over their estimated lives which range from 1-15 years using straight
line and accelerated amortization methods. The excess of the purchase price
over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired (approximately $440
million) was recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is non-deductible for tax
purposes. This acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method, and,
accordingly, results of operations are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. The results from the acquisition date
through December 31, 2008, are included in the Automation and Control Solutions
segment and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.

In
    January 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its
    Consumer Products Group business (CPG) to Rank Group Limited for approximately
    $950 million. The sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions,
    including the receipt of regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the
    third quarter of 2011. We currently estimate that the transaction will result
    in a pre-tax gain of approximately $350 million, approximately $200 million
    net of tax. The sale of CPG, within the Transportation Systems segment, is
    consistent with the Company’s strategic focus on its portfolio of differentiated
    global technologies.

In
connection with all acquisitions in 2010, 2009 and 2008, the amounts recorded
for transaction costs and the costs of integrating the acquired businesses into
Honeywell were not material.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The pro
forma results for 2010, 2009 and 2008, assuming these acquisitions had been
made at the beginning of the year, would not be materially different from
consolidated reported results.

Note 3—Repositioning
and Other Charges

A summary of
repositioning and other charges follows:

The following
table summarizes the pretax distribution of total net repositioning and other
charges by income statement classification:

The following table
summarizes the pretax impact of total net repositioning and other charges by
segment:

In 2010, we
recognized repositioning charges totaling $181 million including severance
costs of $145 million related to workforce reductions of 2,807 manufacturing
and administrative positions primarily in our Automation and Control Solutions,
Aerospace and Transportation Systems segments. The workforce reductions were
primarily related to the planned shutdown of certain manufacturing facilities
in our Automation and Control Solutions and Transportation Systems segments,
cost savings actions taken in connection with our ongoing functional
transformation and productivity initiatives, factory transitions in our
Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions and Specialty Materials segments to
more cost-effective locations, achieving acquisition-related synergies in our
Automation and Control Solutions segment, and the exit and/or rationalization
of certain product lines in our Specialty Materials segment. The repositioning
charge also included asset impairments of $22 million principally related to
manufacturing plant and equipment associated with the exit and/or
rationalization of certain product lines and in facilities scheduled to close.
Also, $30 million of previously established accruals, primarily for severance
at our Automation and Control Solutions, Transportation Systems and Aerospace
segments, were returned to income in 2010 due to fewer employee separations
than originally planned associated with prior severance programs.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

In 2009, we
recognized repositioning charges totaling $224 million primarily for severance
costs related to workforce reductions of 4,423 manufacturing and administrative
positions mainly in our Automation and Control Solutions, Transportation
Systems and Aerospace segments. The workforce reductions were primarily related
to the adverse market conditions experienced by many of our businesses, cost
savings actions taken in connection with our ongoing functional transformation
initiative, the planned downsizing or shutdown of certain manufacturing
facilities, and organizational realignments of portions of our Aerospace and
Transportation Systems segments. Also, $53 million of previously established
accruals, primarily for severance at our Automation and Control Solutions,
Aerospace, and Transportation Systems segments, were returned to income in 2009
due to fewer employee separations than originally planned associated with prior
severance programs and changes in the scope of previously announced
repositioning actions.

In 2008, we
recognized repositioning charges totaling $444 million including severance
costs of $333 million related to workforce reductions of 7,480 manufacturing
and administrative positions across all of our segments. The workforce
reductions primarily relate to the planned downsizing or shutdown of certain
manufacturing facilities in our Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions and
Transportation Systems segments, the rationalization of non-manufacturing
infrastructure, outsourcing of non-core components, managing capacity
utilization to address product demand volatility and our functional
transformation initiative. The repositioning charge also included asset
impairments of $78 million principally related to manufacturing plant and
equipment in facilities scheduled to close or be downsized and certain
administrative facilities, and information technology equipment in our
Corporate segment. Also, $20 million of previously established accruals,
primarily for severance at our Automation and Control Solutions segment were
returned to income in 2008 due mainly to fewer employee separations than
originally planned associated with prior severance programs.

The
following table summarizes the status of our total repositioning reserves:

(1)

Relates to
 businesses divested during 2009 included in Gain on Sale of Non-Strategic
 Businesses and Assets see Note 4, Other (Income) Expense.

Certain
repositioning projects in our Aerospace, Automation and Control Solutions and
Transportation Systems segments included exit or disposal activities, the costs
related to which will be recognized in future periods when the actual liability
is incurred. The nature of these exit or disposal costs principally includes
product recertification and requalification and employee training and travel.
The following tables summarize by segment, expected, incurred and remaining
exit and disposal costs related to 2010 and 2008 repositioning actions which we
were not able to recognize at the time the actions were initiated. The exit and
disposal costs related to the repositioning actions in 2009, which we were not
able to recognize at the time the actions were initiated were not significant.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

In 2010, we
recognized a charge of $212 million for environmental liabilities deemed
probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos
related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $175 million. Environmental
and Asbestos Matters are discussed in detail in Note 21. We also recognized
other charges of $62 million in connection with the evaluation of potential
resolution of certain legal matters.

In 2009, we
recognized a charge of $145 million for environmental liabilities deemed
probable and reasonably estimable during the year. We recognized asbestos
related litigation charges, net of insurance, of $155 million.

In 2008, we
recognized a charge of $465 million for environmental liabilities deemed
probable and reasonably estimable during the year, of which $309 million was
recognized in the third quarter which included:

We also recognized asbestos related litigation charges, net of
insurance, of $125 million.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 4—Other (income) expense

Other,
net for 2010 includes a $62 million pre-tax gain, $39 million net of tax,
related to the consolidation of a joint venture within our Specialty Materials
segment. The Company obtained control and the ability to direct those
activities most significant to the joint venture’s economic performance in the
third quarter, resulting in consolidation. Accordingly, we have i) recognized
the assets and liabilities at fair value, ii) included the results of
operations in the consolidated financial statements from the date of
consolidation and iii) recognized the above noted gain representing the
difference between the carrying amount and fair value of our previously held
equity method investment. The Company has assigned $24 million to intangibles,
predominantly the joint venture’s customer contracts. These intangible assets
are being amortized over their estimated lives using the straight line method.
The excess of the book value over the estimated fair values of the net assets
consolidated approximating $132 million, was recorded as goodwill. This
goodwill is non-deductible for tax purposes. The results from the consolidation
date through December 31, 2010 are included in the Specialty Materials segment
and were not material to the consolidated financial statements.

Gain
on sale of non-strategic businesses and assets for 2009 includes a $50 million
pre-tax gain, $42 million net of tax, related to the deconsolidation of a
subsidiary within our Automation and Control Solutions segment. The subsidiary
achieved contractual milestones at December 31, 2009 and as a result, we are no
longer the primary beneficiary, resulting in deconsolidation. We continue to
hold a non-controlling interest which was recorded at its estimated fair value
of $67 million upon deconsolidation. The fair value was estimated using a
combination of a market and income approaches utilizing observable market data
for comparable businesses and discounted cash flow modeling. Our
non-controlling interest, classified within Investments and long-term
receivables on our Balance Sheet will be accounted for under the equity method
on a prospective basis.

Other,
net for 2009 includes an other than-temporary impairment charge of $62 million.
See Note 16 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures for further details.

Gain
on sale of non-strategic businesses and assets for 2008 includes a $623 million
pre-tax gain related to the sale of our Consumables Solutions business. See
Note 2 for further details.

Note5—Interest and Other Financial Charges

The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper
outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 1.64 percent and 1.47 percent,
respectively.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 6—Income Taxes

Income from continuing operations before taxes

Tax expense (benefit)

Deferred:

United States

$


$


$

(939

)

State



(145

)

Foreign


(253

)

(36

)



(1,120

)

$


$


$

(226

)

(1)

Net of changes in valuation allowance


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
effective tax rate increased by 5.7 percentage points in 2010 compared with
2009 primarily due to a change in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S.
pension expense, the impact of an enacted change in the tax treatment of the
Medicare Part D program, the absence of manufacturing incentives, a decreased
impact from the settlement of audits and an increase in the foreign effective
tax rate. The foreign effective tax rate increased by approximately 7
percentage points which primarily consisted of i) a 6 percentage point impact
from the absence of tax benefits related to foreign exchange and investment
losses and ii) a 0.5 percentage point impact from increased valuation
allowances on net operating losses.

The
effective tax rate increased by 60.4 percentage points in 2009 compared to 2008
primarily due to a decrease in the mix of earnings related to lower U.S.
pension expense and to a lesser extent, a decreased impact from the settlement
of audits.

Deferred tax assets (liabilities)

Deferred
income taxes represent the future tax effects of transactions which are
reported in different periods for tax and financial reporting purposes. The tax
effects of temporary differences and tax carryforwards which give rise to
future income tax benefits and payables are as follows:

There
were $35 million of U.S. federal tax net operating losses available for
carryforward at December 31, 2010 which were generated by certain subsidiaries
prior to their acquisition and have expiration dates through 2029. The use of
pre-acquisition operating losses is subject to limitations imposed by the
Internal Revenue Code. We do not anticipate that these limitations will affect
utilization of the carryforwards prior to their expiration. The Company has
state tax net operating loss carryforwards of $3.2 billion at December 31,
2010 with varying expiration dates through 2030. We also have foreign net
operating and capital losses of $2.8 billion which are available to reduce
future income tax payments in several countries, subject to varying expiration
rules.

We
have U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards of $311 million at December 31,
2010, including foreign tax credits, research and other general business
credits with various expiration dates through 2030. We also have state tax credit carryforwards of $64 million at December
31, 2010, including carryforwards of $37 million with various expiration dates
through 2025 and tax credits of $27 million which are not subject to expiration.

The
valuation allowance against deferred tax assets increased by $58 million and
$133 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, and decreased by $45 million in
2008. The 2010 increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to increased
foreign net operating losses related to France, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands
offset by the reversal of a valuation allowance related to Germany. The 2010
increase in valuations allowance also includes adjustments related to purchase
accounting for various acquisitions. The 2009 increase in the valuation
allowance was primarily due to a increased foreign net operating losses related
to Germany, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. The 2008 decrease in the valuation
allowance was primarily due to a decrease in the valuation allowance related to
federal and state capital loss carryforwards partially offset by increased
foreign net operating losses.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Federal
income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of the majority
of our international subsidiaries as it is our intention to reinvest these
earnings into the respective subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010 Honeywell has
not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on
approximately $6.0 billion of such earnings of our non-U.S. operations. It is
not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or
all of such earnings were to be repatriated, and foreign tax credits would be
available to reduce or eliminate the resulting U.S. income tax liability.

We
had $757 million, $720 million and $671 million of unrecognized tax benefits as
of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively. If recognized, $757 million
would be recorded as a component of income tax expense as of December 31, 2010.
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company increased its
unrecognized tax benefits by $37 million and $49 million, respectively, due to
additional reserves for various international and U.S. tax audit matters,
partially offset by adjustments related to our ongoing assessments of the
likelihood and amount of potential outcomes of current and future examinations,
the expiration of various statute of limitations, and settlements with tax
authorities. The following table summarizes the activity related to our
unrecognized tax benefits:

In many
cases our uncertain tax positions are related to tax years that remain subject
to examination by the relevant tax authorities. The following table summarizes
these open tax years by major jurisdiction as of December 31, 2010:

(1)

includes
 federal as well as state, provincial or similar local jurisdictions, as
 applicable.

Based
on the outcome of these examinations, or as a result of the expiration of
statute of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible
that the related unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions taken regarding
previously filed tax returns will materially change from those recorded as
liabilities for uncertain tax positions in our financial statements. In
addition, the outcome of these examinations may impact the valuation of certain
deferred tax assets (such as net operating losses) in future periods. Based on the
number of tax years currently under audit by the relevant U.S federal, state
and foreign tax authorities, the Company anticipates that several of these
audits may be finalized in the foreseeable future. However, based on the status
of these examinations, the protocol of finalizing audits by the relevant taxing
authorities, and the possibility that the Company might challenge certain audit
findings (which could include formal legal proceedings), at this time it is


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

not
possible to estimate the impact of any amount of such changes, if any, to
previously recorded uncertain tax positions.

Unrecognized
tax benefits for examinations in progress were $274 million, $261 million and
$249 million, as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. These
increases are primarily due to an increase in tax examinations and fewer
settlements during the year. Estimated interest and penalties related to the
underpayment of income taxes are classified as a component of Tax Expense in
the Consolidated Statement of Operations and totaled $33 million, $13 million
and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively. Accrued interest and penalties were $183 million, $150 million
and $137 million, as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.

Note 7—Earnings Per Share

The
details of the earnings per share calculations for the years ended December 31,
2010 and 2009 are as follows:

The
diluted earnings per share calculations exclude the effect of stock options
when the options’ assumed proceeds exceed the average market price of the
common shares during the period. In 2010, 2009, and 2008 the weighted number
of stock options excluded from the computations were 14.8, 34.0, and 17.8,
respectively. These stock options were outstanding at the end of each of the
respective periods.

Note 8—Accounts, Notes and Other Receivables

Trade
Receivables includes $1,307, and $1,167 million of unbilled balances under
long-term contracts as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009,
respectively. These amounts are billed in accordance with the terms of customer
contracts to which they relate.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note
9—Inventories

Inventories
valued at LIFO amounted to $248 and $211 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Had such LIFO inventories been valued at current costs, their
carrying values would have been approximately $154 and $161 million higher at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, the quantity of inventory valued using the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method in our Specialty Materials segment declined.
This reduction resulted in a liquidation of LIFO inventory quantities carried
at lower costs prevailing in prior years as compared with the cost of 2009
purchases, the effect of which decreased cost of products sold by $12 million
during the year ended December 31, 2009.

Note 10—Investments and Long-Term Receivables

Long-Term
Trade and Other Receivables include $19 and $27 million of unbilled balances
under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These
amounts are billed in accordance with the terms of the customer contracts to
which they relate.

The
following table summarizes long term trade, financing and other receivables by
segment, including current portions and allowances for credit losses.

Allowance
for credit losses for the above detailed long-term trade, financing and other
receivables totaled $7 million and $7 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The receivables are evaluated for impairment on an individual
basis, including consideration of credit quality. The above detailed financing
receivables are predominately with commercial and governmental counterparties
of investment grade credit quality.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 11—Property, Plant and Equipment

Depreciation
expense was $724, $707 and $702 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Note 12—Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets - Net

The
change in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010
and 2009 by segment is as follows:

December 31,


Acquisitions

Divestitures

Currency

Translation

Adjustment

December 31,


Aerospace

$

1,891

$

—

$

—

$

(8

)

$

1,883

Automation
 and Control Solutions

6,918

1,074

—

(85

)

7,907

Specialty
 Materials

1,164


—

(5

)

1,291

Transportation
 Systems


—

—

(5

)


$

10,494

$

1,206

$

—

$

(103

)

$

11,597

Intangible
assets amortization expense was $263, $250, and $201 million in 2010, 2009,
2008, respectively. Estimated intangible asset amortization expense for each of
the next five years approximates $259 million in 2011, $253 million in 2012,
$228 million in 2013, $196 million in 2014, and $161 in 2015.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 13—Accrued Liabilities

Note 14—Long-term
Debt and Credit Agreements

The
schedule of principal payments on long term debt is as follows:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

We maintain
a $2,800 million five year committed revolving credit facility with a group of
banks, arranged by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
which is in place through May 14, 2012. This credit facility contains a $700
million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit. The credit facility is
maintained for general corporate purposes, including support for the issuance
of commercial paper. We had no borrowings outstanding or letters of credit
issued under the credit facility at December 31, 2010.

The credit
agreement does not restrict our ability to pay dividends and contains no
financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary conditions or the
occurrence of customary events of default contained in the credit agreement
would prevent any further borrowings and would generally require the repayment
of any outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement. Such events of
default include: (a) non-payment of credit agreement debt, interest or fees;
(b) non-compliance with the terms of the credit agreement covenants; (c)
cross-default to other debt in certain circumstances; (d) bankruptcy; and (e)
defaults upon obligations under Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
Additionally, each of the banks has the right to terminate its commitment to
lend additional funds or issue letters of credit under the agreement if any
person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of our
voting stock, or, during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of
Honeywell at the beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the
Board of Directors.

Loans under
the credit facility are required to be repaid no later than May 14, 2012. We
have agreed to pay a facility fee of 0.05 percent per annum on the aggregate
commitment.

Interest on
borrowings under the credit facility would be determined, at Honeywell’s
option, by (a) an auction bidding procedure; (b) the highest of the floating
base rate publicly announced by Citibank, N.A., 0.5 percent above the average
CD rate, or 0.5 percent above the Federal funds rate; or (c) the Eurocurrency
rate plus 0.15 percent (applicable margin).

The
facility fee, the applicable margin over the Eurocurrency rate and the letter
of credit issuance fee, are subject to change, based upon a grid determined by
our long term debt ratings. The credit agreement is not subject to termination
based upon a decrease in our debt ratings or a material adverse change.

In February
2009, the Company issued $600 million 3.875% Senior Notes due 2014 and $900
million 5.00% Senior Notes due 2019 (collectively, the “2009 Senior Notes”).
The 2009 Senior Notes are senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of
Honeywell and rank equally with all of Honeywell’s existing and future senior
unsecured debt and senior to all of Honeywell’s subordinated debt. The offering
resulted in gross proceeds of $1,500 million, offset by $12 million in discount
and issuance costs.

In the
first quarter of 2009, the Company repaid $493 million of its floating rate
notes. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company repaid $500 million of its
floating rate notes and $100 million of its zero coupon bonds and money
multiplier notes.

In the
first quarter of 2010, the Company repaid $1,000 million of its 7.50% notes.
The repayment was funded with cash provided by operating activities.

As a source
of liquidity, we sell interests in designated pools of trade accounts
receivables to third parties. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009
none of the receivables in the designated pools had been sold to third parties.
When we sell receivables, they are over-collateralized and we retain a
subordinated interest in the pool of receivables representing that over-collateralization
as well as an undivided interest in the balance of the receivables pools. The
terms of the trade accounts receivable program permit the repurchase of
receivables from the third parties at our discretion, providing us with an
additional source of revolving credit. As a result, program receivables remain
on the Company’s balance sheet with a corresponding amount recorded as either
Short-term borrowings or Long-term debt.

Note 15—Lease
Commitments

Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases having initial or remaining
noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

We have
entered into agreements to lease land, equipment and buildings. Principally all
our operating leases have initial terms of up to 25 years, and some contain
renewal options subject to customary conditions. At any time during the terms
of some of our leases, we may at our option purchase the leased assets for
amounts that approximate fair value. We do not expect that any of our
commitments under the lease agreements will have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

Rent
expense was $373, $371 and $383 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Note 16—Financial Instruments and Fair Value
Measures

Credit
and Market Risk—

Financial instruments, including derivatives, expose
us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance and to market risk related to
changes in interest and currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We manage
our exposure to counterparty credit risk through specific minimum credit standards,
diversification of counterparties, and procedures to monitor concentrations of
credit risk. Our counterparties in derivative transactions are substantial
investment and commercial banks with significant experience using such
derivative instruments. We monitor the impact of market risk on the fair value
and cash flows of our derivative and other financial instruments considering
reasonably possible changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and
commodity prices and restrict the use of derivative financial instruments to
hedging activities.

We
continually monitor the creditworthiness of our customers to which we grant
credit terms in the normal course of business. The terms and conditions of our
credit sales are designed to mitigate or eliminate concentrations of credit
risk with any single customer. Our sales are not materially dependent on a
single customer or a small group of customers.

Foreign
Currency Risk Management—

We conduct our business on a multinational basis in a
wide variety of foreign currencies. Our exposure to market risk for changes in
foreign currency exchange rates arises from international financing activities
between subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities and transactions arising from international trade. Our objective is
to preserve the economic value of non-functional currency denominated cash
flows. We attempt to hedge transaction exposures with natural offsets to the
fullest extent possible and, once these opportunities have been exhausted,
through foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts with third
parties.

We hedge
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. Prior
to conversion into U.S. dollars, these assets and liabilities are remeasured at
spot exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date. The effects of changes
in spot rates are recognized in earnings and included in Other (Income)
Expense. We partially hedge forecasted sales and purchases, which predominantly
occur in the next twelve months and are denominated in non-functional
currencies, with currency forward contracts. Changes in the forecasted
non-functional currency cash flows due to movements in exchange rates are
substantially offset by changes in the fair value of the currency forward
contracts designated as hedges. Market value gains and losses on these
contracts are recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction is recognized.
Open foreign currency exchange forward contracts mature predominantly in the
next twelve months. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had contracts with
notional amounts of $5,733 million and $2,959 million respectively to exchange
foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Canadian
dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Mexican peso, Swiss franc, Czech koruna, Chinese
renminbi, Indian rupee, Singapore dollar, and Swedish krona.

Commodity
Price Risk Management—

Our exposure to market risk for commodity prices can
result in changes in our cost of production. We primarily mitigate our exposure
to commodity price risk through the use of long-term, fixed-price contracts
with our suppliers and formula price agreements with suppliers and customers.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

We also enter into forward commodity contracts with third parties
designated as hedges of anticipated purchases of several commodities. Forward
commodity contracts are marked-to-market, with the resulting gains and losses
recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction is recognized. At December
31, 2010 and 2009, we had contracts with notional amounts of $23 million and
$52 million respectively related to forward commodity agreements, principally
base metals and natural gas.

Interest
Rate Risk Management—

We use a combination of financial instruments,
including long-term, medium-term and short-term financing, variable-rate
commercial paper, and interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate mix of
our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. At December 31,
2010 and 2009, interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges
effectively changed $600 million of fixed rate debt at a rate of 3.875 percent
to LIBOR based floating debt. Our interest rate swaps mature in 2014.

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments

— The FASB’s accounting guidance defines fair value as the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit
price). The FASB’s guidance classifies the inputs used to measure fair value
into the following hierarchy:

The Company endeavors to utilize the best available information in
measuring fair value. Financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities are
classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is
significant to the fair value measurement. The Company has determined that our
available for sale investments are level 1 and our remaining financial assets
and liabilities are level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. The following table
sets forth the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that were accounted
for at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009:

The foreign
currency exchange contracts, interest rate swap agreements, and forward
commodity contracts are valued using broker quotations, or market transactions
in either the listed or over-the-counter markets. As such, these derivative
instruments are classified within level 2. The Company also holds investments
in marketable equity securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposits,
and time deposits that are designated as available for sale and are valued
using market transactions in over-the-counter markets. As such, these
investments are classified within level 2.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts and notes
receivables, payables, commercial paper and short-term borrowings contained in
the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value. The following table
sets forth the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that were not carried
at fair value:

In the
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had assets with a net book
value of $32 million and $72 million, respectively, specifically property,
plant and equipment, software and intangible assets, which were accounted for
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets were tested for impairment and
based on the fair value of these assets the Company recognized losses of $30
million and $28 million, respectively, in the years ended December 31, 2010 and
2009, primarily in connection with our repositioning actions (see Note 3
Repositioning and Other Charges). The Company has determined that the fair
value measurements of these nonfinancial assets are level 3 in the fair value
hierarchy.

The Company
holds investments in marketable equity securities that are designated as
available for sale securities. Due to an other-than-temporary decline in fair
value of these investments, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $62
million in the second quarter of 2009 that is included in Other (Income)
Expense.

The
derivatives utilized for risk management purposes as detailed above are
included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and impacted the Statement of
Operations as follows:

Fair value of derivatives classified as
assets consist of the following:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Gains (losses) recognized in OCI (effective
portions) consist of the following:

Year Ended

December, 31

Designated Cash Flow Hedge



Foreign currency exchange contracts

$


$


Commodity contracts

(7

)

(1

)

Gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI to
income consist of the following:

Ineffective
portions of foreign currency exchange contracts and commodity derivative
instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationships were insignificant in
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and are located in cost of products
sold.

Interest
rate swap agreements are designated as hedge relationships with gains or
(losses) on the derivative recognized in Interest and other financial charges
offsetting the gains and losses on the underlying debt being hedged. Gains or
(losses) on interest rate swap agreements recognized in earnings were $24 and
$(2) million in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively.

We also
economically hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates
principally with forward contracts. These contracts are marked-to-market with
the resulting gains and losses recognized in earnings offsetting the gains and
losses on the non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities being hedged. We recognized $18 million and $85 million of expense,
in Other (Income) Expense for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 17—Other Liabilities

Note 18—Capital
Stock

We are
authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par
value of $1. Common shareowners are entitled to receive such dividends as may
be declared by the Board, are entitled to one vote per share, and are entitled,
in the event of liquidation, to share ratably in all the assets of Honeywell
which are available for distribution to the common shareowners. Common
shareowners do not have preemptive or conversion rights. Shares of common stock
issued and outstanding or held in the treasury are not liable to further calls
or assessments. There are no restrictions on us relative to dividends or the
repurchase or redemption of common stock.

The
    Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $3.0
    billion of Honeywell common stock, which amount includes $1.3 billion that
    remained available under the Company’s previously reported share repurchase
    program.

We are
authorized to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par
value, and can determine the number of shares of each series, and the rights,
preferences and limitations of each series. At December 31, 2010, there was no
preferred stock outstanding.

Note 19—Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Total
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is included in the Consolidated
Statement of Shareowners’ Equity. Comprehensive Income (Loss) attributable to
non-controlling interest consisted predominantly of net income. The changes in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) are as follows:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

(1)     Includes reclassification adjustment for losses included in net
income

Components of
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Note 20—Stock-Based
Compensation Plans

We have
stock-based compensation plans available to grant non-qualified stock options,
incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted units and
restricted stock to key employees. Under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan of
Honeywell International Inc. and its Affiliates (the Plan), a maximum of 43
million shares of Honeywell common stock may be awarded. Additionally, under
the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Honeywell International Inc.
(the Directors Plan) 500,000 shares of Honeywell common stock may be awarded.

Stock Options

—The exercise price, term and other conditions
applicable to each option granted under our stock plans are generally
determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the
Board. The exercise price of stock options is set on the grant date and may not
be less than the fair market value per share of our stock on that date. The
fair value is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service
period (generally the vesting period of the award). Options generally vest over
a four-year period and expire after ten years.

The fair
value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatility is based on implied
volatilities from traded options on Honeywell common stock. We used a Monte
Carlo simulation model to derive an expected term. Such model uses historical
data to estimate option exercise activity and post-vest termination behavior.
The expected term represents an estimate of the time options are expected to
remain outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life
of the option is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect at the time
of grant.

Compensation
cost on a pre-tax basis related to stock options recognized in operating
results (included in selling, general and administrative expenses) in 2010,
2009 and 2008 was $55, $39 and $51 million, respectively. The associated future
income tax benefit recognized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $16, $13 and $19
million, respectively.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
following table sets forth fair value per share information, including related
weighted-average assumptions, used to determine compensation cost:

(1)     Estimated on date of grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing
model.

The following table summarizes information about stock option activity
for the three years ended December 31, 2010:

(1)

Represents the sum of vested options of
24.7 million and expected to vest options of 13.1 million. Expected to vest
options are derived by applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to
total outstanding unvested options 16.1 million.

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2010:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

(1)     Average remaining contractual life in years.

There were
27,427,023 and 30,314,667 options exercisable at weighted average exercise
prices of $38.85 and $41.40 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There
were 21,512,252 shares available for future grants under the terms of our stock
option plans at December 31, 2010.

The total
intrinsic value of options (which is the amount by which the stock price
exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of exercise) exercised
during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $54, $4 and $76 million, respectively. During
2010, 2009 and 2008, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock
options was $181, $20 and $134 million, respectively, with an associated tax
benefit realized of $18, $1 and $28 million, respectively. In 2010, 2009 and
2008 we classified $13, $1 and $21 million, respectively, of this benefit as a
financing cash inflow in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the
balance was classified as cash from operations.

At December
31, 2010, there was $94 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to non-vested stock option awards which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.43 years. The total fair value of options vested
during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $41, $51 and $63 million, respectively.

Restricted Stock Units

—Restricted stock unit (RSU) awards entitle the holder to receive one
share of common stock for each unit when the units vest. RSUs are issued to
certain key employees at fair market value at the date of grant as
compensation. RSUs typically become fully vested over periods ranging from
three to seven years and are payable in Honeywell common stock upon vesting.

The
following table summarizes information about RSU activity for the three years
ended December 31, 2010:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

As
    of December 31, 2010, there was approximately $202 million of total unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs granted under our stock plans
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.
Compensation expense related to RSUs was $109, $79 and $77 million in 2010,
2009, and 2008, respectively.

Non-Employee Directors’ Plan

—Under the Directors’ Plan each new
director receives a one-time grant of 3,000 restricted stock units that will
vest on the fifth anniversary of continuous Board service.

The
Directors’ Plan also provides for an annual grant to each director of options
to purchase 5,000 shares of common stock at the fair market value on the date
of grant. Options generally become exercisable over a four-year period and
expire after ten years.

Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies

Environmental Matters

We are
subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements
relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that, as a general
matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent
unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury and that our
handling, manufacture, use and disposal of hazardous substances are in
accordance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. However, mainly
because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we, like
other companies engaged in similar businesses, have incurred remedial response
and voluntary cleanup costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits
and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past
production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits,
claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to
arise in the future.

With
respect to environmental matters involving site contamination, we continually
conduct studies, individually or jointly with other potentially responsible
parties, to determine the feasibility of various remedial techniques. It is our
policy to record appropriate liabilities for environmental matters when
remedial efforts or damage claim payments are probable and the costs can be
reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on our best estimate of the
undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. The recorded
liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as
additional technical, regulatory or legal information becomes available. Given
the uncertainties regarding the status of laws, regulations, enforcement
policies, the impact of other potentially responsible parties, technology and
information related to individual sites, we do not believe it is possible to
develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental loss in
excess of our recorded liabilities. We expect to fund expenditures for these
matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on a
number of factors, including the timing of remedial investigations and
feasibility studies, the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation
liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of
cleanup projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreements with other
parties.

The
    following table summarizes information concerning our recorded liabilities
for environmental costs:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Environmental liabilities are included in the following balance sheet
accounts:

Although we
do not currently possess sufficient information to reasonably estimate the
amounts of liabilities to be recorded upon future completion of studies,
litigation or settlements, and neither the timing nor the amount of the
ultimate costs associated with environmental matters can be determined, they
could be material to our consolidated results of operations or operating cash
flows in the periods recognized or paid. However, considering our past
experience and existing reserves, we do not expect that these environmental
matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position.

New Jersey Chrome Sites

—The excavation and offsite disposal
of approximately one million tons of chromium residue present at a predecessor
Honeywell site located in Jersey City, New Jersey, known as Study Area 7 was
completed in January 2010. We have also received approval of the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey for the implementation of related
groundwater and sediment remedial actions, and are seeking the appropriate
permits from state and federal agencies. Provisions have been made in our
financial statements for the estimated cost of these remedies.

The
above-referenced site is the most significant of the 21 sites located in Hudson
County, New Jersey that are the subject of an Administrative Consent Order
(ACO) entered into with the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
(NJDEP) in 1993 (the “Honeywell ACO Sites”). Remedial investigations and
activities consistent with the ACO have also been conducted and are underway at
the other Honeywell ACO Sites. We have recorded reserves for the Honeywell ACO
Sites where appropriate under the accounting policy described above.

On May 3,
2005, NJDEP filed a lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court against Honeywell and
two other companies seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, unspecified
damages, and the reimbursement of unspecified total costs relating to sites in
New Jersey allegedly contaminated with chrome ore processing residue. The
claims against Honeywell relate to the activities of a predecessor company
which ceased its New Jersey manufacturing operations in the mid-1950’s.
Honeywell and the two other companies have agreed to settle this litigation
with NJDEP, subject to Court approval. Under the settlement, Honeywell would
pay $5 million of NJDEP’s past costs, as well as accept sole responsibility to
remediate 24 of the 53 “Publicly Funded Sites” (i.e., those sites for which
none of the three companies had previously accepted responsibility). Honeywell
would also bear 50% of the costs at another 10 Publicly Funded Sites. We have recorded
reserves for the Publicly Funded Sites where appropriate under the accounting
policy described above.

We have entered into court-approved settlements of
litigation filed in federal court against Honeywell and other landowners
seeking the cleanup of chrome residue at groups of properties known as Study
Areas 5, 6 South and 6 North of the Honeywell ACO Sites. The required remedial
actions are consistent with our recorded reserves.

Dundalk Marine Terminal, Baltimore, MD

—Chrome residue from legacy chrome
plant operations in Baltimore was deposited as fill at the Dundalk Marine
Terminal (“DMT”), which is owned and operated by the Maryland Port
Administration (“MPA”). Honeywell and the MPA have been sharing costs to
investigate and mitigate related environmental issues, and have entered into a
cost sharing agreement under which Honeywell will bear 77 percent of the costs
of developing and implementing permanent remedies for the DMT facility. In
January 2011, the MPA and Honeywell submitted to the Maryland Department of the
Environment (“MDE”) a Corrective Measures Alternatives Analysis (“CMAA”) of
certain potential remedies for DMT to assist MDE in selection of a final
remedy. Provision has been made in our financial statements for the CMAA
consistent with the accounting policy described above. We have negotiated a
Consent Decree with the MPA and MDE with respect to the investigation and
remediation of the DMT facility. The Consent Decree is being challenged in
federal court by BUILD, a Baltimore community group, together with a local
church and two individuals (collectively “BUILD”). In October 2007, the Court
dismissed with prejudice BUILD’s state law claims and dismissed without
prejudice BUILD’s RCRA claims regarding neighborhoods near the DMT facility. In
August 2008, the Court held a hearing on the Company’s motion to dismiss
BUILD’s remaining claims on the grounds that MDE is diligently prosecuting the
investigation and remediation of the DMT. We are awaiting the Court’s decision.
We do not believe that this


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

matter will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
financial position or operating cash flows. Given the scope and complexity of
this project, it is possible that the cost of remediation, when determinable,
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the
periods recognized.

Onondaga Lake, Syracuse, NY

—We are
implementing a combined dredging/capping remedy of Onondaga Lake pursuant to a
consent decree approved by the United States District Court for the Northern
District of New York in January 2007. We have accrued for our estimated cost of
remediating Onondaga Lake based on currently available information and analysis
performed by our engineering consultants. Honeywell
is also conducting remedial investigations and activities at other sites in
Syracuse. We have recorded reserves for these investigations and activities
where appropriate under the accounting policy described above.

Honeywell has
entered into a cooperative agreement with potential natural resource trustees
to assess alleged natural resource damages relating to this site. It is not
possible to predict the outcome or duration of this assessment, or the amounts
of, or responsibility for, any damages.

Asbestos Matters

Like many
other industrial companies, Honeywell is a defendant in personal injury actions
related to asbestos. We did not mine or produce asbestos, nor did we make or
sell insulation products or other construction materials that have been
identified as the primary cause of asbestos related disease in the vast
majority of claimants. Products containing asbestos previously manufactured by
Honeywell or by previously owned subsidiaries primarily fall into two general
categories: refractory products and friction products.

Refractory Products

—Honeywell owned North
American Refractories Company (NARCO) from 1979 to 1986. NARCO produced
refractory products (high temperature bricks and cement) that were sold largely
to the steel industry in the East and Midwest. Less than 2 percent of NARCO’S
products contained asbestos.

When we
sold the NARCO business in 1986, we agreed to indemnify NARCO with respect to
personal injury claims for products that had been discontinued prior to the
sale (as defined in the sale agreement). NARCO retained all liability for all
other claims. On January 4, 2002, NARCO filed for reorganization under Chapter
11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.

As a result
of the NARCO bankruptcy filing, all of the claims pending against NARCO are
automatically stayed pending the reorganization of NARCO. In addition, the
bankruptcy court enjoined both the filing and prosecution of NARCO-related
asbestos claims against Honeywell. The stay has remained in effect continuously
since January 4, 2002. In connection with NARCO’s bankruptcy filing, we paid
NARCO’s parent company $40 million and agreed to provide NARCO with up to $20
million in financing. We also agreed to pay $20 million to NARCO’s parent
company upon the filing of a plan of reorganization for NARCO acceptable to
Honeywell (which amount was paid in December 2005 following the filing of
NARCO’s Third Amended Plan of Reorganization), and to pay NARCO’s parent
company $40 million, and to forgive any outstanding NARCO indebtedness to
Honeywell, upon the effective date of the plan of reorganization.

We believe
that, as part of the NARCO plan of reorganization, a trust will be established
for the benefit of all asbestos claimants, current and future, pursuant to
Trust Distribution Procedures negotiated with the NARCO Asbestos Claimants
Committee and the Court-appointed legal representative for future asbestos
claimants. If the trust is put in place and approved by the Court as fair and
equitable, Honeywell as well as NARCO will be entitled to a permanent
channeling injunction barring all present and future individual actions in
state or federal courts and requiring all asbestos related claims based on
exposure to NARCO products to be made against the federally-supervised trust.
Honeywell has reached agreement with the representative for future NARCO
claimants and the Asbestos Claimants Committee to cap its annual contributions
to the trust with respect to future claims at a level that would not have a
material impact on Honeywell’s operating cash flows.

In November
2007, the Bankruptcy Court entered an amended order confirming the NARCO Plan
without modification and approving the 524(g) trust and channeling injunction
in favor of NARCO and Honeywell. In December 2007, certain insurers filed an
appeal of the Bankruptcy Court Order in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Pennsylvania. The District Court affirmed the
Bankruptcy Court Order in July 2008. In August 2008, insurers filed a notice of
appeal to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. The appeal is fully briefed, oral
argument took place on May 21, 2009, and the matter was submitted for decision.
In connection with the settlement of an insurance coverage litigation matter,
the insurer appellants withdrew their appeal regarding the NARCO Plan. On
August 3, 2010 the Third Circuit Court of Appeals entered an order formally
dismissing the NARCO appeal. The NARCO Plan of Reorganization cannot become
effective, however, until the resolution of an appeal of the Chapter 11
proceedings of NARCO affiliates. The Third Circuit reheard this appeal en banc
on October 13, 2010. It is not possible to predict when the Court will rule on
this appeal. We expect that the stay


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

enjoining litigation against NARCO and Honeywell will remain in effect
until the effective date of the NARCO Plan of Reorganization.

Our
consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for settlement
of pending and future NARCO-related asbestos claims of $1,125 million and
$1,128 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. The
estimated liability for pending claims is based on terms and conditions,
including evidentiary requirements, in definitive agreements with approximately
260,000 current claimants, and an estimate of the unsettled claims pending as
of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. Substantially all settlement
payments with respect to current claims have been made. Approximately $100
million of payments due pursuant to these settlements is due only upon
establishment of the NARCO trust.

The
estimated liability for future claims represents the estimated value of future
asbestos related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against NARCO
through 2018 and the aforementioned obligations to NARCO’s parent. In light of
the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections we do not believe
that we have a reasonable basis for estimating asbestos claims beyond 2018. The
estimate is based upon the disease criteria and payment values contained in the
NARCO Trust Distribution Procedures negotiated with the NARCO Asbestos
Claimants Committee and the NARCO future claimants’ representative. Honeywell
projected the probable number and value, including trust claim handling costs,
of asbestos related future liabilities based upon experience of asbestos claims
filing rates in the tort system and in certain operating asbestos trusts, and
the claims experience in those forums. The valuation methodology also includes
an analysis of the population likely to have been exposed to asbestos
containing products, epidemiological studies to estimate the number of people
likely to develop asbestos related diseases, NARCO claims filing history, the
pending inventory of NARCO asbestos related claims and payment rates expected
to be established by the NARCO trust. This methodology used to estimate the
liability for future claims has been commonly accepted by numerous courts and
resulted in a range of estimated liability for future claims of $743 to $961
million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than
any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum amount in the
range.

As of
December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, our consolidated financial statements
reflect an insurance receivable corresponding to the liability for settlement
of pending and future NARCO-related asbestos claims of $718 and $831 million,
respectively. This coverage reimburses Honeywell for portions of the costs incurred
to settle NARCO related claims and court judgments as well as defense costs and
is provided by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens of
insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the London excess
market. At December 31, 2010, a significant portion of this coverage is with
insurance companies with whom we have agreements to pay full policy limits
based on corresponding Honeywell claims costs. We conduct analyses to determine
the amount of insurance that we estimate is probable of recovery in relation to
payment of current and estimated future claims. While the substantial majority
of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are
insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. We
made judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and
consistent with our historical dealings with our insurers, our knowledge of any
pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers and various judicial determinations
relevant to our insurance programs.

In the
second quarter of 2006, Travelers Casualty and Insurance Company (“Travelers”)
filed a lawsuit against Honeywell and other insurance carriers in the Supreme
Court of New York, County of New York, disputing obligations for NARCO-related
asbestos claims under high excess insurance coverage issued by Travelers and
other insurance carriers. In July 2010, the Company entered into a settlement
agreement resolving all asbestos coverage issues with certain plaintiffs.
Approximately $180 million of unsettled coverage under these policies is
included in our NARCO-related insurance receivable at December 31, 2010.
Honeywell believes it is entitled to the coverage at issue and expects to
prevail in this matter. In the third quarter of 2007, Honeywell prevailed on a
critical choice of law issue concerning the appropriate method of allocating
NARCO-related asbestos liabilities to triggered policies. The plaintiffs
appealed and the trial court’s ruling was upheld by the intermediate appellate
court in the second quarter of 2009. Plaintiffs’ further appeal to the New York
Court of Appeals, the highest court in New York, was denied in October 2009. A
related New Jersey action brought by Honeywell has been dismissed, but all
coverage claims against plaintiffs have been preserved in the New York action.
Based upon (i) our understanding of relevant facts and applicable law, (ii) the
terms of insurance policies at issue, (iii) our experience on matters of this
nature, and (iv) the advice of counsel, we believe that the amount due from
Travelers and other insurance carriers is probable of recovery. While Honeywell
expects to prevail in this matter, an adverse outcome could have a material
impact on our results of operations in the period recognized but would not be
material to our consolidated financial position or operating cash flows.

Projecting future events is subject to many uncertainties that could
cause the NARCO related asbestos liabilities or assets to be higher or lower
than those projected and recorded. There is no assurance that the plan of
reorganization will become final, that insurance recoveries will be timely or
whether there will be any NARCO


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

related asbestos claims beyond 2018. Given the inherent uncertainty in
predicting future events, we review our estimates periodically, and update them
based on our experience and other relevant factors. Similarly, we will
reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries in
light of any changes to the projected liability or other developments that may
impact insurance recoveries.

Friction Products

—Honeywell’s Bendix
friction materials (Bendix) business manufactured automotive brake parts that
contained chrysotile asbestos in an encapsulated form. Existing and potential
claimants consist largely of individuals who allege exposure to asbestos from
brakes from either performing or being in the vicinity of individuals who
performed brake replacements.

From 1981
through December 31, 2010, we have resolved approximately 155,000 Bendix
related asbestos claims. We had 131 trials resulting in favorable verdicts and
18 trials resulting in adverse verdicts. Four of these adverse verdicts were
reversed on appeal, five verdicts were vacated on post-trial motions, three
claims were settled and the remaining have been or will be appealed. The claims
portfolio was reduced in 2009 due to settlements, dismissals and the
elimination of significantly aged (i.e., pending for more than six years),
inactive (including claims for which the required medical and exposure showings
have not been made) and duplicate claims.

The
following tables present information regarding Bendix related asbestos claims
activity:

(a) The number of
 claims filed in 2010 includes approximately 1,541 non-malignant claims (with
 an accrued liability of approximately $575 thousand in the aggregate), a
 majority of which had previously been dismissed in Mississippi and re-filed
 in Arkansas.

(b) The number of
 claims resolved in 2010 includes approximately 1,300 claims previously
 classified as inactive (95% non-malignant and accrued liability of
 approximately $2.0 million) which were activated during the current period.

Honeywell
has experienced average resolution values per claim excluding legal costs as
follows:

It is not
possible to predict whether resolution values for Bendix related asbestos
claims will increase, decrease or stabilize in the future.

Our
consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated liability for resolution
of pending and future


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Bendix
related asbestos claims of $594 and $566 million at December 31, 2010 and
December 31, 2009, respectively. Our liability for the estimated cost of future
Bendix related asbestos claims is based on historic claims filing experience,
disease classifications, expected resolution values, and historic dismissal
rates. In the fourth quarter of each year, we update our analysis of the estimated
cost of future Bendix related asbestos claims. We have valued Bendix pending
and future claims using average resolution values for the previous five years.
Changes in the tort system, which began in 2006, refocused asbestos litigation
on mesothelioma cases, making the five year period 2006 through 2010
representative for forecasting purposes. We will continue to update the
expected resolution values used to estimate the cost of pending and future
Bendix claims during the fourth quarter each year.

The
estimated liability for future claims represents the estimated value of future
asbestos related bodily injury claims expected to be asserted against Bendix
over the next five years. In light of the uncertainties inherent in making
long-term projections, as well as certain factors unique to friction product
asbestos claims, we do not believe that we have a reasonable basis for
estimating asbestos claims beyond the next five years. The estimate is based
upon Bendix historical experience in the tort system for the five years ended
December 31, 2010 with respect to claims filing and resolution values. The
methodology used to estimate the liability for future claims has been commonly
accepted by numerous courts. It is similar to that used to estimate the future
NARCO related asbestos claims liability.

Honeywell
currently has approximately $1,900 million of insurance coverage remaining with
respect to pending and potential future Bendix related asbestos claims, of
which $157 and $172 million are reflected as receivables in our consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. This
coverage is provided by a large number of insurance policies written by dozens
of insurance companies in both the domestic insurance market and the London
excess market. Insurance receivables are recorded in the financial statements
simultaneous with the recording of the liability for the estimated value of the
underlying asbestos claims. The amount of the insurance receivable recorded is
based on our ongoing analysis of the insurance that we estimate is probable of
recovery. This determination is based on our analysis of the underlying
insurance policies, our historical experience with our insurers, our ongoing
review of the solvency of our insurers, our interpretation of judicial
determinations relevant to our insurance programs, and our consideration of the
impacts of any settlements reached with our insurers. Insurance receivables are
also recorded when structured insurance settlements provide for future fixed
payment streams that are not contingent upon future claims or other events.
Such amounts are recorded at the net present value of the fixed payment stream.

On a
cumulative historical basis, Honeywell has recorded insurance receivables equal
to approximately 41 percent of the value of the underlying asbestos claims
recorded. However, because there are gaps in our coverage due to insurance
company insolvencies, certain uninsured periods, and insurance settlements,
this rate is expected to decline for any future Bendix related asbestos
liabilities that may be recorded. Future recoverability rates may also be
impacted by numerous other factors, such as future insurance settlements,
insolvencies and judicial determinations relevant to our coverage program,
which are difficult to predict. Assuming continued defense and indemnity
spending at current levels, we estimate that the cumulative recoverability rate
could decline over the next five years to approximately 35 percent.

Honeywell
believes it has sufficient insurance coverage and reserves to cover all pending
Bendix related asbestos claims and Bendix related asbestos claims estimated to
be filed within the next five years. Although it is impossible to predict the outcome
of either pending or future Bendix related asbestos claims, we do not believe
that such claims would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial position in light of our insurance coverage and our prior experience
in resolving such claims. If the rate and types of claims filed, the average
resolution value of such claims and the period of time over which claim
settlements are paid (collectively, the “Variable Claims Factors”) do not
substantially change, Honeywell would not expect future Bendix related asbestos
claims to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
operating cash flows in any fiscal year. No assurances can be given, however,
that the Variable Claims Factors will not change.

Refractory
and Friction Products

— The following tables summarize information
concerning NARCO and Bendix asbestos related balances:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Asbestos Related Liabilities

Insurance Recoveries for Asbestos Related
Liabilities

NARCO and
Bendix asbestos related balances are included in the following balance sheet
accounts:

The change
in accrued liabilities and asbestos related liabilities at December 31, 2010
from December 31, 2009 is driven primarily by our best estimate of the timing
of expected payments related to the effective date of the NARCO trust.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Other Matters

We are
subject to a number of other lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of
which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our
business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government
contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee
benefit plans, intellectual property, and environmental, health and safety
matters. We recognize a liability for any contingency that is probable of
occurrence and reasonably estimable. We continually assess the likelihood of
adverse judgments of outcomes in these matters, as well as potential ranges of
possible losses (taking into consideration any insurance recoveries), based on
a careful analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel
and, if applicable, other experts. Included in these other matters are the
following:

Allen, et al. v. Honeywell Retirement Earnings Plan

—Pursuant
to a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona
in February 2008, 18 of 21 claims alleged by plaintiffs in this class action
lawsuit were dismissed with prejudice in exchange for approximately $35 million
and the maximum aggregate liability for the remaining three claims (alleging
that Honeywell impermissibly reduced the pension benefits of certain employees
of a predecessor entity when the plan was amended in 1983 and failed to
calculate benefits in accordance with the terms of the plan) was capped at $500
million. Any amounts payable, including the settlement amount, have or will be
paid from the Company’s pension plan. In October 2009, the Court granted
summary judgment in favor of the Honeywell Retirement Earnings Plan with
respect to the claim regarding the calculation of benefits. We continue to
expect to prevail on the remaining claims in light of applicable law and our
substantial affirmative defenses, which have not yet been considered fully by
the Court. Accordingly, we do not believe that a liability is probable of
occurrence and reasonably estimable with respect to these claims and we have
not recorded a provision for the remaining claims in our financial statements.

Quick
Lube

—On
March 31, 2008, S&E Quick Lube, a filter distributor, filed suit in U.S.
District Court for the District of Connecticut alleging that twelve filter
manufacturers, including Honeywell, engaged in a conspiracy to fix prices, rig
bids and allocate U.S. customers for aftermarket automotive filters. This suit
is a purported class action on behalf of direct purchasers of filters from the
defendants. Parallel purported class actions, including on behalf of indirect
purchasers of filters, have been filed by other plaintiffs in a variety of
jurisdictions in the United States and Canada. The U.S cases have been
consolidated into a single multi-district litigation in the Northern District
of Illinois. We intend to vigorously defend the claims raised in these actions.
The Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice notified Honeywell on
January 21, 2010 that it has officially closed its investigation into possible
collusion in the replacement auto filters industry.

BorgWarner
v. Honeywell

—In this patent infringement suit in the District Court for the Western
District of North Carolina, plaintiff BorgWarner is claiming that Honeywell’s
manufacture and sale of cast titanium compressor wheels for turbochargers
infringes three BorgWarner patents and is seeking damages of up to
approximately $120 million, which plaintiff asserts should be trebled for
willful infringement. Because the process claimed in BorgWarner’s patents had
already been described in detail in printed publications and had been offered
for sale before BorgWarner’s alleged invention, in violation of statutory
requirements for patentability, Honeywell asked the Court to enter summary
judgment of invalidity of BorgWarner’s patents. The Court declined to enter
summary judgment in September 2010, finding that the question should be decided
by a jury. Trial is scheduled for May 2011. Honeywell will continue its
vigorous defense of this claim and expects to prevail at trial. In the event
the Company is found liable, we do not believe that the evidence supports
damages of the magnitude claimed or any finding of willfulness. Honeywell has
also asked the United States Patent and Trademark Office to reexamine all three
of BorgWarner’s patents in light of the prior art publications. If the Patent
Office ultimately invalidates the BorgWarner patents at issue prior to final
adjudication of the patent infringement litigation, plaintiff would not be
entitled to recover damages.

Given the
uncertainty inherent in litigation and investigations (including the specific
matters referenced above), we do not believe it is possible to develop
estimates of reasonably possible loss in excess of current accruals for these
matters. Considering our past experience and existing accruals, we do not
expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate,
to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position.
Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, potential
liabilities are subject to change due to new developments, changes in
settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, which could
cause us to pay damage awards or settlements (or become subject to equitable
remedies) that could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or operating cash flows in the periods recognized or paid.

Warranties and Guarantees

—We have issued or are a party to
the following direct and indirect guarantees at December 31, 2010:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

We do not
expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

In
connection with the disposition of certain businesses and facilities we have
indemnified the purchasers for the expected cost of remediation of environmental
contamination, if any, existing on the date of disposition. Such expected costs
are accrued when environmental assessments are made or remedial efforts are
probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.

In the
normal course of business we issue product warranties and product performance
guarantees. We accrue for the estimated cost of product warranties and
performance guarantees based on contract terms and historical experience at the
time of sale. Adjustments to initial obligations for warranties and guarantees
are made as changes in the obligations become reasonably estimable. The
following table summarizes information concerning our recorded obligations for
product warranties and product performance guarantees:

Product warranties
 and product performance guarantees are included in the following balance
 sheet accounts:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Note 22. Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits

We sponsor
both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
covering the majority of our employees and retirees. Pension benefits for
substantially all U.S. employees are provided through non-contributory,
qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans. U.S. defined benefit
pension plans comprise 77 percent of our projected benefit obligation. Non-U.S.
employees, who are not U.S. citizens, are covered by various retirement benefit
arrangements, some of which are considered to be defined benefit pension plans
for accounting purposes. Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans comprise 23
percent of our projected benefit obligation.

We also
sponsor postretirement benefit plans that provide health care benefits and life
insurance coverage to eligible retirees. Our retiree medical plans mainly cover
U.S. employees who retire with pension eligibility for hospital, professional
and other medical services. All non-union hourly and salaried employees joining
Honeywell after January 1, 2000 are not eligible to participate in our retiree
medical and life insurance plans. Most of the U.S. retiree medical plans
require deductibles and copayments, and virtually all are integrated with
Medicare. Retiree contributions are generally required based on coverage type,
plan and Medicare eligibility. Honeywell has limited its subsidy of its retiree
medical plans to a fixed-dollar amount for all future retirees and for more
than half of its current retirees. This cap of retiree medical benefits under
our plans limits our exposure to the impact of future health care cost
increases. The retiree medical and life insurance plans are not funded. Claims
and expenses are paid from our operating cash flow.

During the
third quarter of 2010, Honeywell amended its U.S. retiree medical plan to no
longer offer certain post-age-65 retirees Honeywell group coverage and
facilitate their purchase of an individual plan in the Medicare marketplace.
This plan amendment reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
by $137 million which will be recognized as part of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost over the average future service period to full eligibility of the
remaining active union employees still eligible for a retiree medical subsidy.

On
    February 1, 2010, in connection with a new collective bargaining agreement
    reached with one of its union groups, Honeywell amended its U.S. retiree
    medical plan eliminating the subsidy for those union employees who retire
    after February 1, 2013. This plan amendment reduced the accumulated postretirement
    benefit obligation by $39 million which will be recognized as part of net
    periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average future service period
    to full eligibility of the remaining active union employees still eligible
    for a retiree medical subsidy. This plan amendment also resulted in a curtailment
gain of $37 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 which was included as
part of net periodic postretirement benefit cost. The curtailment gain
represents the recognition of previously unrecognized prior service
credits attributable to the future years of service of the union group for which
future accrual of benefits has been eliminated.

In May
2009, Honeywell amended the U.S. retiree medical plan eliminating the subsidy
for active non-union employees who retire after September 1, 2009. Employees
already retired or who retired on or before September 1, 2009 were not affected
by this change. This plan amendment reduced the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation by $180 million representing the elimination of benefits
attributable to years of service already rendered by active non-union employees
who are not eligible to retire and those eligible non-union employees who were
assumed not to retire prior to September 1, 2009. This reduction in the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation will be recognized as part of net
periodic postretirement benefit cost over the average future service period to
full eligibility of the remaining active union employees still eligible for a
retiree medical subsidy. This plan amendment also resulted in a curtailment
gain of $98 million in the second quarter of 2009 which was included as part of
net periodic postretirement benefit cost. The curtailment gain represented the
recognition of previously unrecognized prior service credits attributable to
the future years of service of the employee group for which future accrual of
benefits was eliminated.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
following tables summarize the balance sheet impact, including the benefit
obligations, assets and funded status associated with our significant pension
and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2010 and 2009.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

(1)

Excludes Non-U.S. plans of $46 and $43 million in 2010 and 2009,
 respectively.

Amounts
recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Income) Loss associated with our
significant pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2010
and 2009 are as follows.

The
components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other
comprehensive (income) loss for our significant plans for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 include the following components:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
estimated prior service cost for pension benefits that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss into net periodic benefit cost
    in 2011 are expected to be $33 million and $(2) million for U.S. and Non-U.S.
benefit plans, respectively.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
estimated net loss and prior service (credit) for other postretirement benefits
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss into
net periodic benefit cost in 2011 are expected to be $44 and $(51) million,
respectively.

Major
actuarial assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations and net
periodic benefit cost for our benefit plans are presented in the following
table.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
discount rate for our U.S. pension and other postretirement benefits plans
reflects the current rate at which the associated liabilities could be settled
at the measurement date of December 31. To determine discount rates for our
U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we use a modeling process
that involves matching the expected cash outflows of our benefit plans to a
yield curve constructed from a portfolio of double A rated fixed-income debt
instruments. We use the average yield of this hypothetical portfolio as a
discount rate benchmark. The discount rate used to determine the other
postretirement benefit obligation is lower principally due to a shorter
expected duration of other postretirement plan obligations as compared to
pension plan obligations.

Our
expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets is a long-term rate based on
historic plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with
current market conditions and broad asset mix considerations. We will use an
expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets of 8% for 2011 down from 9% for
2010 due to lower future expected market returns. We review the expected rate
of return on an annual basis and revise it as appropriate.

For
non-U.S. benefit plans, none of which was individually material, assumptions
reflect economic assumptions applicable to each country.

Pension Benefits

Included in
the aggregate data in the tables above are the amounts applicable to our
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of
plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as follows:

The
accumulated benefit obligation for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans was
$14.3 and $12.8 billion and our Non-U.S. defined benefit plans were $4.1 and
$4.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Our asset
investment strategy for our U.S. pension plans focuses on maintaining a
diversified portfolio using various asset classes in order to achieve our
long-term investment objectives on a risk adjusted basis. Our actual invested
positions in various securities change over time based on short and longer-term
investment opportunities. To achieve our objectives, we have established
long-term target allocations as follows: 60-70 percent equity securities, 10-20
percent fixed income securities and cash, 5-15 percent real estate investments,
and 10-20 percent other types of investments. Equity securities include
publicly-traded stock of companies located both inside and outside the United
States. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds of companies from diversified
industries, mortgage-backed securities, and U.S. Treasuries. Real estate
investments include direct investments in commercial properties and investments
in real estate funds. Other types of investments include investments in private
equity and hedge funds that follow several different strategies. We review our
assets on a regular basis to ensure that we are within the targeted asset
allocation ranges and, if necessary, asset balances are adjusted back within
target allocations.

Our
non-U.S. pension assets are typically managed by decentralized fiduciary
committees with the Honeywell Corporate Investments group providing standard
funding and investment guidance. Local regulations, local funding rules, and
local financial and tax considerations are part of the funding and investment
allocation process in each country. While our non-U.S. investment policies are
different for each country, the long-term investment objectives are generally
the same as those for the U.S. pension assets.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
    fair values of both our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets at December
31, 2010 and 2009 by asset category are as follows:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

The
following tables summarize changes in the fair value of Level 3 assets for the
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Our
    U.S. pension assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include $834 and $481 million
    respectively, in notional derivative exposure primarily related to outstanding
    equity futures contracts. The Company enters into futures contracts to gain
    exposure to certain markets.

Common
  stocks, preferred stocks, real estate investment trusts, and short-term investments
    are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the
    individual securities are traded. Corporate bonds, mortgages, asset-backed
    securities, and government securities are valued either by using pricing
    models, bids provided by brokers or dealers, quoted prices of securities
    with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and as such include
    adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable such as credit and
    liquidity risks. Certain securities are held in commingled funds which are
    valued using net asset values provided by the administrators of the funds.
    Investments in private equity, debt and hedge funds and direct private investments
    are valued at estimated fair value based on quarterly financial information
    received from the investment advisor and/or general partner. Investments
    in real estate are valued based on annual independent appraised values.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts

Our general
funding policy for qualified pension plans is to contribute amounts at least
sufficient to satisfy regulatory funding standards. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
were not required to make contributions to our U.S. pension plans, however, we
made voluntary contributions of $1,000, $740 and $242 million, respectively,
primarily to improve the funded status of our plans. During 2011, we are still
not required to make any contributions to our U.S. pension plans, however, in
January 2011 we made a voluntary cash contribution of $1 billion to improve the
funded status of our plans. In 2010, we contributed marketable securities valued
at $242 million to one of our non-U.S. plans. In 2011, we also expect to
contribute approximately $55 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit pension
plans to satisfy regulatory funding standards and to fund benefits to be paid
directly from Company assets.

Benefit
payments, including amounts to be paid from Company assets, and reflecting
expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:

Other Postretirement Benefits

The
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act)
provides subsidies for employers that sponsor postretirement health care plans
that provide prescription drug coverage that is at least actuarially equivalent
to that offered by Medicare Part D. The March 2010 enactment of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, including modifications made in the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 resulted in a one-time, non-cash
charge of $13 million related to income taxes in the first quarter of 2010. The
charge results from a change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D
program. The impact of the Act reduced other postretirement benefits expense by
approximately $11 and $21 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The impact of
the Act on other postretirement benefits expense was insignificant in 2010.

The assumed
health care cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported. A
one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would
have the following effects:

1 percentage point

Increase

Decrease

Effect on total of service and
 interest cost components

$


$

(4)

Effect on postretirement
 benefit obligation

$


$

(78)

Benefit
payments reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be
paid as follows:


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts

Employee Savings Plans

We sponsor
employee savings plans under which we match, in the form of our common stock,
savings plan contributions for certain eligible employees. Shares issued under
the stock match plans were 2.4, 4.8 and 4.9 million at a cost of $105, $158 and
$220 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.

Note 23. Segment
Financial Data

We globally
manage our business operations through four reportable operating segments
serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, control,
sensing and security technologies for buildings, homes and industry, automotive
products and chemicals. Segment information is consistent with how management
reviews the businesses, makes investing and resource allocation decisions and
assesses operating performance. Our four reportable segments are as follows:

The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
Honeywell’s senior management evaluates segment performance based on segment
profit. Segment profit is measured as business unit income (loss) before taxes
excluding general corporate unallocated expense, other income (expense),
interest and other financial charges, pension and other postretirement benefits
(expense), stock compensation expense, repositioning and other charges and
accounting changes.


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts

A
reconciliation of segment profit to consolidated income from continuing
operations before taxes are as follows:

Note 24. Geographic Areas - Financial Data


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts

Note 25. Supplemental Cash Flow Information


HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC.

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts

Note 26. Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information


R

EPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To

THE

B

OARD OF

D

IRECTORS AND

S

HAREHOLDERS OF

H

ONEYWELL

I

NTERNATIONAL

I

NC

.:

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Honeywell International Inc.
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. In addition, in
our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing
under Item 15(a)(2)presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in

Internal
Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is
responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule,
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the
financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control
over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2010 the
Company has changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension costs.
All periods have been retroactively restated for this accounting change.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Florham
Park, New Jersey

February 11, 2011


I

tem 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
 Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not
Applicable

I

tem 9A.

Controls
 and Procedures

Honeywell
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form
10-K to ensure information required to be disclosed in the reports that
Honeywell files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission rules and forms and that it is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our
Chief Financial Officer and our Controller, as appropriate, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. There have been no changes that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Honeywell’s internal
control over financial reporting that have occurred during the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Honeywell
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Honeywell’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. Honeywell’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management
assessed the effectiveness of Honeywell’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management used
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in

Internal
Control – Integrated Framework

.

Based on
this assessment, management determined that Honeywell maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.

The
effectiveness of Honeywell’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”


I

tem 9B.

Other
 Information

Not Applicable

I

tem 10.

Directors
 and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information
relating to the Directors of Honeywell, as well as information relating to
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, will be
contained in our definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of the
Directors, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A not
later than 120 days after December 31, 2010, and such information is
incorporated herein by reference. Certain other information relating to the
Executive Officers of Honeywell appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form
10-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Registrant”.

The members
of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors are: Linnet Deily (Chair),
Kevin Burke, Scott Davis, George Paz, and Michael W. Wright. The Board has
determined that Ms. Deily is the “audit committee financial expert” as defined
by applicable SEC rules and that Ms. Deily, Mr. Davis, and Mr. Paz satisfy the
“accounting or related financial management expertise” criteria established by
the NYSE. All members of the Audit Committee are “independent” as that term is
defined in applicable SEC Rules and NYSE listing standards.

Honeywell’s
Code of Business Conduct is available, free of charge, on our website under the
heading “Investor Relations” (see “Corporate Governance”), or by writing to
Honeywell, 101 Columbia Road, Morris Township, New Jersey 07962, c/o Vice
President and Corporate Secretary. Honeywell’s Code of Business Conduct applies
to all Honeywell directors, officers (including the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Controller) and employees. Amendments to or waivers
of the Code of Business Conduct granted to any of Honeywell’s directors or
executive officers will be published on our website within five business days
of such amendment or waiver

I

tem 11.

Executive
 Committee

Information
relating to executive compensation is contained in the Proxy Statement referred
to above in “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,” and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

I

tem 12.

Security
 Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
 Matters

Information
relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and
related stockholder matters is contained in the Proxy Statement referred to
above in “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,” and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

I

tem 13.

Certain
 Relationships and Related Transactions

Information
relating to certain relationships and related transactions is contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant,” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

I

tem 14.

Principal
 Accounting Fees and Services

Information
relating to fees paid to and services performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in 2010 and 2009 and our Audit Committee’s pre-approval policies and procedures
with respect to non-audit services are contained in the Proxy Statement
referred to above in “Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant,” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 15.

E

xhibits and Financial
 Statement Schedules


S

IGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated:


E

XHIBIT INDEX




The Exhibits
 identified above with an asterisk (*) are management contracts or
 compensatory plans or arrangements.


Honeywell International Inc.

S

CHEDULE
II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Three Years Ended December 31, 2010

(Dollars in millions)

119