
10-K405
d10k405.txt
FORM 10-K405



================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

                                      [X]
             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                                      OR

                                      [_]
           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

         For the transition period from ____________ to ____________ .

                         Commission File Number 1-7845

                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                      Missouri                 44-0324630
                   (State or other
                   jurisdiction of
                  incorporation or          (I.R.S. employer
                    organization)          identification no.)

                 No. 1 Leggett Road
                 Carthage, Missouri               64836
                (Address of principal
                 executive offices)            (Zip code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (417) 358-8131

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                        Name of Each Exchange on
                 Title of Each Class        Which Registered
                 -------------------    ------------------------
               Common Stock, $.01 par
                         value           New York Stock Exchange
              Preferred Stock Purchase
                        Rights           New York Stock Exchange


   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]   No  [_]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $4,563,830,202 on March 5, 2002.

   There were 196,308,943 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding
as of March 5, 2002.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 8, 2002, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this report.

================================================================================



                                    PART I

Item 1. Business.

   The Company is a diversified manufacturer of a wide range of engineered
products. It was incorporated in 1901 as the successor to a partnership formed
in 1883 at Carthage, Missouri. That partnership was a pioneer in the
development of steel coil bedsprings. The Company today serves markets for:

    .  Residential Furnishings--components for bedding, furniture and other
       furnishings, as well as related consumer products.

    .  Commercial Furnishings--retail store fixtures, displays, storage and
       material handling systems, components for office and institutional
       furnishings and plastic components.

    .  Aluminum Products--die castings, custom tooling and dies, machining,
       coating and other value added processes and smelting of aluminum ingot.

    .  Industrial Materials--drawn steel wire, specialty wire products and
       welded steel tubing.

    .  Specialized Products--automotive seating suspensions, control cable
       systems, and lumbar supports for automotive, office and residential
       applications, and specialized machinery and manufacturing equipment.

   The term "Company," unless the context requires otherwise, refers to Leggett
& Platt, Incorporated and its majority owned subsidiaries.

   General Development of Business. The Company acquired 10 businesses during
the year ended December 31, 2001 representing annualized sales of approximately
$160 million. These acquired businesses had annualized sales within the
Company's business segments as follows: Residential Furnishings--approximately
$30 million, Commercial Furnishings--approximately $80 million, Industrial
Materials--approximately $50 million and Specialized Products--approximately $1
million.

   Reference is also made to Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information about the Company's acquisitions.

   Residential Furnishings. The Company's residential furnishings products
include a broad line of components used by manufacturers to make finished
bedding and residential furniture products. Examples of residential furnishings
components manufactured by the Company include (i) innerspring units for
mattresses, and wood frames, coils and modules for boxsprings; (ii) foam,
textile and fiber cushioning materials, woven and non-woven construction
fabrics for bedding, home furnishings and industrial applications; (iii)
springs and seating suspensions for chairs, sofas and other residential
furniture; (iv) steel mechanisms and hardware for reclining chairs, sleeper
sofas and other types of motion furniture; and (v) other furniture supplies and
cut-to-size dimension lumber.

   The Company also manufactures or distributes finished residential
furnishings. These finished products include bed frames, daybeds, headboards,
adjustable electric beds, fashion beds, carpet underlay and non-slip coated
fabrics.

   Most of the Company's customers for residential furnishings manufacture
finished bedding (mattresses and boxsprings) or upholstered and non-upholstered
furniture for residential use. Finished residential furnishings are sold to
bedding and furniture manufacturers for resale, or directly to retailers and
distributors.

   The Company's diverse range of components gives its residential furnishings
manufacturer-customers access to a single source for most of their component
needs. For example, a manufacturer of bedding can come to the Company for
almost every component part of a mattress and boxspring, except the outer
upholstery fabric.




This same principle holds true for manufacturers of other residential
furnishings such as upholstered recliner chairs, sofas and loveseats. Because
the Company has the advantage of long production runs and numerous production
and assembly locations, it can generally produce component products more
efficiently than its customers. Therefore, components customers can focus on
the design, style and marketing of their various residential furnishings
products, rather than the production of components.

   Commercial Furnishings. The Company manufactures a variety of commercial
furnishings products, including both finished products and components.

   Finished commercial furnishings include point-of-purchase displays, store
fixtures and shelving, racking, counters and carts used to store and handle
materials and utility vehicle rack systems. Point-of-purchase displays and
store fixtures, made of wood, metal, wire and plastics, are used by a wide
range of customers, including manufacturers, distributors and retailers of
branded consumer products. The Company has the ability to provide custom
designed full store fixture packages as well as standardized shelving used by
large retailers, grocery stores, discount chains and the like. Commercial
storage products provide for the efficient storage, organization and handling
of materials used in food service, health care and other applications.
Customers for these storage products include retailers, restaurants, light
industrial, and many other diverse businesses.

   Commercial furnishings components include chair controls (devices which
allow office chairs to be adjusted to height, tilt and swivel), chair bases,
columns, backrests, casters and other components used by customers that
manufacture office, institutional and other commercial furnishings. The Company
also produces plastic components for commercial furnishings customers as well
as customers that make lawn care products, power tools, and other consumer or
commercial products.

   Aluminum Products. The Company die casts aluminum components for use in a
number of different industries primarily for non-automotive applications. Some
zinc and magnesium die castings are also produced.

   The Company's die casting products are sold to a diverse group of customers
that manufacture industrial and consumer products. The Company's customers use
these components in their production of gas barbecue grills, outdoor lighting
fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems and other
cable and telecommunication products, computer and electronics products,
electric motors, consumer appliances, power tools, small to mid-size gasoline
engines, mid-to-large size diesel engines, motorcycles, snowmobiles, ATVs,
trucks and automobiles.

   The Company also manufactures and refurbishes dies (also known as molds or
tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. These complementary
products are sold to customers that buy the Company's die castings and to
others. The Company also provides extensive secondary machining, coating,
sub-assembly and other value-added services.

   In addition, the Company operates an aluminum smelting plant where aluminum
ingot is produced from aluminum scrap. Some of this aluminum is used by the
Company's die casting operations and the balance is sold to unaffiliated
customers.

   Industrial Materials. The Company produces drawn steel wire and welded steel
tubing as well as specialty wire products. Drawn wire and welded steel tubing
are important raw materials used widely in manufacturing the Company's
products. For example, wire is used to make bedding and furniture components,
commercial furnishings, automotive seating components and other products.
Welded steel tubing is used in many of the same types of products, including
furniture actuation mechanisms, store fixtures, displays, shelving and storage
products and finished residential furnishings.

   In addition to supplying a portion of the Company's needs for important
materials, the Company sells drawn wire and welded steel tubing to a diverse
group of industrial customers such as manufacturers of lawn and garden
equipment, recreational equipment, mechanical springs, automotive interiors and
other products.




   Specialty wire products using wire drawn by the Company include wire ties
that secure cotton bales and solid waste materials. Customers for these
products include cotton gins, textile companies, recyclers and solid waste
removal businesses. The Company also manufactures and sells tying heads of
various types which customers use to tie wire.

   Specialized Products. Two smaller business units are engaged in
manufacturing specialized products. One concentrates on manufacturing
components primarily for automotive interior applications. The other business
unit designs, builds and sells specialized machinery and equipment. In the
automotive area the Company manufactures seating suspensions, lumbar support
and control cable systems. Subcontractors to automobile manufacturers as well
as the manufacturers themselves are the primary customers for these products.
In the machinery area the Company manufactures highly automated quilting
machines for fabrics used to cover mattresses and in other home furnishings
applications, coilers used to fabricate springs of various types, industrial
sewing machines and other equipment designed primarily for the assembly of
bedding, including material handling systems and other products for factory
automation. While manufacturers of bedding are the primary customers for the
Company's machinery, the Company also designs and produces some of these
specialized products for its own use.

   The Company's products are sold and distributed primarily through its own
sales personnel.

   Reference is made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning external sales to customers,
external sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total
assets of each of the Company's business segments.

   Foreign Operations. The majority of the Company's international operations
are in Canada and Mexico. The Canadian operations primarily manufacture
commercial furnishings and components for the Company's residential furnishings
customers and lumbar supports primarily for the automotive industry. The
Mexican operations primarily manufacture aluminum die castings, bedding
components, commercial furnishings and control cable systems. The Company's
other international operations are primarily located in Europe and involve (i)
the sale of machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings and
other bedding related components, and (ii) the production of bedding
components, seating components, lumbar support products, and commercial
furnishings. In 2001, the Company added additional facilities in the United
Kingdom and Mexico, and new facilities in Greece and Italy.

   Reference is made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning the Company's long-lived assets
and external sales outside of the United States.

   Raw Materials. The Company uses a variety of raw materials in manufacturing
its products. Some of the Company's most important raw materials include steel
rod, from which steel wire is drawn, woven and nonwoven fabrics, aluminum
ingot, aluminum scrap, angle iron, coil and sheet steel, dimension lumber,
textile scrap, foam chemicals, foam scrap, and plastic resin. Substantially all
of the Company's requirements for steel wire, an important material in many of
the Company's products, are supplied by Company-owned wire drawing mills.
Examples of products produced using steel wire include residential furnishings
such as innersprings and box springs, commercial furnishings such as displays,
shelving and racks and automotive seating systems. The Company also produces,
at various locations, for its own consumption and for sale to customers not
affiliated with the Company, welded steel tubing, textile fibers, dimension
lumber and aluminum ingot from scrap aluminum. Numerous supply sources for the
raw materials used by the Company are available. The Company did not experience
any significant shortages of raw materials during the past year.

   Patents and Trademarks. The Company holds numerous patents concerning its
various product lines. No single patent or group of patents is material to the
Company's business as a whole. Examples of the Company's more significant
trademarks include SEMI-FLEX, LOK-Fast(R) and DYNA-Lock(R) (boxspring
components and foundations); Mira-Coil(R) and Superlastic(R) (mattress
innersprings); Nova-Bond(R) and Rollout(R) (insulators for




mattresses); ADJUSTAMAGIC(R) (adjustable electric beds); Wallhugger(R)
(recliner chairs); SUPER SAGLESS(R) (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms) and
No-Sag(R) (sinuous wire), Tack & Jump(R) and Patternlink(R) (quilting
machines); Hanes(R) (fiber materials); Schukra(R), Pullmaflex(R) and
Flex-O-Lators(R) (automotive products); Masterack(R) and Amco(R) (fixtures and
displays); and Spuhl(R) (mattress innerspring manufacturing machines).

   Research and Development. The Company maintains research, engineering and
testing centers at Carthage, Missouri, and also does research and development
work at many of its other facilities. The Company is unable to precisely
calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved
in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in
several different areas. However, the Company believes the cost of research and
development was approximately $19 million in 2001, $19 million in 2000 and $17
million in 1999.

   Employees. The Company has approximately 31,000 employees of whom
approximately 23,600 are engaged in production. Approximately 27% of the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions. The Company did
not experience any material work stoppage related to the negotiation of
contracts with labor unions during 2001. Management is not aware of any
circumstances which are likely to result in a material work stoppage related to
the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 2002.

   Competition. There are many companies offering products which compete with
those manufactured and sold by the Company. The markets for the Company's
products are highly competitive in all aspects. Given the diverse range of
components and other products produced by the Company, the number of the
companies competing with respect to any class or type of product varies over
the Company's product range. There are also a number of maker-users (vertically
integrated manufacturers) of many of the products the Company manufactures. The
primary competitive factors in the Company's business include price, product
quality and customer service.

   To the best of the Company's knowledge, the Company is the largest
independent manufacturer in North America of components for residential
furniture and bedding, retail store fixtures and point of purchase displays,
components for office furniture, non-automotive aluminum die castings, drawn
steel wire, automotive seat support and lumbar systems, and bedding industry
machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting.

   Seasonality. The Company's business is not significantly seasonal. For
further information, see the discussion of "Seasonality" in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, beginning on page 8.

   Backlog. The Company's relationship with its customers and its manufacturing
and inventory practices do not provide for the traditional backlog that is
associated with some manufacturing entities and no backlog data is regularly
prepared or used by management.

   Working Capital Items. For information regarding working capital items, see
the discussion of "Short-term Liquidity" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, beginning on page 8.

   Government Regulation. The Company's various operations are subject to
federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the
environment, worker safety, and other matters. Environmental regulations
include those relating to air and water emissions, underground storage tanks,
waste handling, and the like. While the Company cannot forecast policies that
may be adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that
compliance with these various laws and regulations will not have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations
of the Company.

Item 2. Properties.

   The Company's most important physical properties are its manufacturing
plants. Facilities manufacturing, assembling or distributing residential
furnishings are located in almost thirty states as well as Asia, Australia,




Brazil, Canada, Europe and Mexico. Commercial furnishings manufacturing plants
and distribution facilities are located in fifteen states, Canada, Italy,
Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Aluminum Products segment has die casting
facilities in nine states and Mexico, die and tooling production facilities in
four states and a smelting operation in one state. Industrial materials are
produced at seven wire drawing mills and three welded steel tubing plants.
Along with these facilities, other industrial materials facilities are located
in fourteen states, and the United Kingdom. Specialized products and machinery
are produced in facilities in ten states, Canada, China, Europe and Mexico.

   Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the Company.
The Company also conducts certain operations in leased premises. Terms of the
leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease. For additional information regarding lease obligations, reference is
made to Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   Properties of the Company include facilities which, in the opinion of
management, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of its products. These properties are located to allow quick and
efficient deliveries and necessary service to the Company's diverse customer
base.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

   The Company is a defendant in various workers' compensation, product
liability, vehicle accident, employment, intellectual property, labor practices
and other claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which management
believes will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition or results of operations of the Company in the ordinary course of
business.

   The Company is party to a small number of proceedings in which a
governmental authority is a party and which involve laws regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment. These proceedings deal primarily
with waste disposal site remediation. Management believes that potential
monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or any
capital expenditures or operating expenses attributable to these proceedings,
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

   Not Applicable.




                                    PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
Matters.

STOCK MARKET AND OWNERSHIP DATA

   The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange with the
trading symbol LEG. The table below highlights quarterly and annual stock
market information for the last two years.


- --------
   Price and volume data reflect composite transactions; price range reflects
intra-day prices.

The Company had 16,356 shareholders of record on March 15, 2002.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.






Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

   The Company's financial position reflects management's capital policy
guidelines. These guidelines are intended to ensure that corporate liquidity is
adequate to support the Company's projected growth rate and to finance the
Company's ongoing operations in periods of economic downturn. In a normal
operating environment, management intends to direct capital to ongoing
operations, strategic acquisitions and other investments that provide
opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.

   Our policy is to expand capital resources--debt and equity--at appropriate
times to allow the Company to take advantage of favorable capital market
conditions, rather than respond to short-term needs. Such financial flexibility
is considered more important than short-term maximization of earnings per share
through excessive leverage. Therefore, management continuously provides for
available credit in excess of near-term projected cash needs and has maintained
a guideline for long-term debt as a percentage of total capitalization in a
range of 30% to 40%.

  Total Capitalization

   The following table shows the Company's total capitalization at the end of
the three most recent years. Also, the table shows the amount of unused
committed credit available through the Company's revolving bank credit
agreements, the amount of cash and cash equivalents and the ratio of earnings
to fixed charges at the end of the three most recent years.



   Cash provided by operating activities was $534.5 million, $440.8 million and
$370.8 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, or a three year total of
$1,346.1 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities during
2001 compared to the prior year principally reflects a decline in working
capital (excluding acquisitions), partially offset by lower earnings and
deferred tax benefits. The decline in working capital in 2001 results from both
a slower business environment and a concentrated effort by management to
decrease working capital levels. The significant cash provided in 2001 by lower
working capital levels is not expected to recur in future years, particularly
as business conditions improve. However, management will continue to focus on
improving efficiency in the use of working capital. In 2000, cash provided by
operating activities exceeded prior




year levels due to an increase in EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization), a reduction in current tax expense and a
smaller increase in working capital (excluding acquisitions), partially offset
by higher interest costs.

   Long-term debt was 33.1%, 34.1% and 30.9% of total capitalization at the end
of 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Long-term debt as a percent of total
capitalization, net of cash, was 28.5%, 33.3% and 30.4% at the end of 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively. As shown in the preceding table, obligations
having scheduled maturities are the primary source of the Company's debt
capital. At the end of 2001, these obligations consisted primarily of the
Company's medium-term notes. Due to implementation of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 133, long-term debt increased $38.1 million from year-end 2000.
That increase was more than offset by the maturity of $50 million in
medium-term notes in June 2001.

   In February 2000, $350 million of 7.65% five-year notes were issued under a
$500 million shelf registration completed in November 1999. These notes were
converted to variable rate notes under an interest rate swap agreement. The
proceeds of the offering were used to pay down commercial paper and to fund the
Company's capital expenditures and acquisition activity. In the second and
third quarters of 1999, the Company issued a total of $104 million in
medium-term notes, the proceeds of which were used to repay maturing notes and
for acquisitions.

   The secondary source of the Company's debt capital consists of revolving
bank credit agreements and commercial paper issuances. Management has
negotiated bank credit agreements and established a commercial paper program to
continuously support the Company's projected growth and to maintain highly
flexible sources of debt capital. The majority of the credit under these
arrangements is a long-term obligation. If needed, however, the credit is
available for short-term borrowings and repayments. To further facilitate the
issuance of debt capital, the Company has in effect a $500 million shelf
registration of debt. The Company has had no commercial paper outstanding at
the end of the last two years. Additional details of long-term debt, including
scheduled maturities, revolving credit and commercial paper are discussed in
Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   The Company does not extensively use off-balance sheet financing, but has
entered into synthetic leases in the amount of $35.1 million in 2001, and has a
limited amount of other long-term noncancelable operating leases as discussed
in Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These leasing
transactions provide economic benefits to the Company versus outright purchase
of the related assets. In 2001, the synthetic leases provided $35.1 million in
cash proceeds from the sale of the assets to the lessor, which are included in
other cash provided by investing activities in the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows.

   The Company relies on cash flow from operations as its primary source of
capital. The weak economic conditions that began in the last half of 2000 and
continued through 2001 would have normally resulted in reduced cash flow. The
Company responded to these difficult business conditions by decreasing capital
spending, temporarily reducing the pace of acquisitions, and lowering working
capital. As a result of these improvements, the Company achieved strong growth
in cash flow and was able to increase cash and equivalents to a level that
provides adequate liquidity to finance ongoing operations and fund a portion of
future growth initiatives. Any future working capital reductions will likely
not be as large as in 2001. The Company has sufficient unused committed credit
to ensure that future capital resources are sufficient for its ongoing
operations and growth opportunities.

   Due to the recession in the United States and some weakness in certain of
the Company's businesses that preceded the recession, the Company's earnings
and profit margins have decreased in both 2001 and 2000. The ratio of earnings
to fixed charges and other financial ratios have also shown a decline over
these two difficult years. The Company's senior debt currently carries a
Moody's rating of A2 and a Standard & Poor's rating of A+. If the Company's
debt ratings were lowered as a result of the decline in financial ratios,
management believes that any such change would be temporary due to current
economic conditions, but would not have a significant impact on the Company's
ability to raise capital.




  Uses of Capital Resources

   The Company's internal investments to modernize and expand manufacturing
capacity totaled $456.8 million in the last three years. In 2002, management
anticipates internal investments will approximate the $128.0 million spent in
2001. During the last three years, the Company employed $637.5 million in cash
(net of cash acquired) and issued 1.6 million shares or equivalents of common
stock in acquisitions. During 2001, ten businesses were acquired for $95.1
million in cash (net of cash acquired) and 61,026 shares or share equivalents.
In addition, the Company assumed $21.0 million of acquisition companies' debt
and other liabilities. Of the ten 2001 acquisitions, three were made in
Residential Furnishings, five in Commercial Furnishings, one in Industrial
Materials and one in Specialized Products. Additional details of acquisitions
are discussed in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additions, by segment, to property, plant and equipment and purchases of
long-lived assets are shown in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

   Company purchases of its common stock (net of issuances) totaled $51.3
million in 2001, $49.2 million in 2000, and $77.5 million in 1999. These
purchases were made primarily for employee stock plans, to replace shares
issued in purchase acquisitions and to satisfy contractual obligations. The
Board of Directors annually authorizes management, at its discretion, to buy up
to 2,000,000 shares of Leggett stock for use in employee benefit plans. This
authorization is continuously replenished as shares acquired are reissued for
these benefit plans. In addition, management is authorized, again at its
discretion, to repurchase any shares issued in acquisitions.

   At the end of the third quarter 2000, the Board of Directors authorized
management to buy up to an additional 10,000,000 shares of Leggett stock as
part of the Company's performance improvement plan also announced at that time.
No specific schedule of purchases has been established under this
authorization, which expires in August 2002. The amount and timing of any
purchases will depend on availability of cash, economic and market conditions,
acquisition activity and other factors.

   Cash dividends paid on the Company's common stock in the last three years
totaled $240.2 million. Over this three-year period, cash dividends per share
have increased at a 15.1% compounded annual rate. As a percent of earnings per
share (diluted), cash dividends per share were 51.1% in 2001, 31.8% in 2000 and
24.8% in 1999. The Company's guideline for dividend payout is approximately 33%
of the prior three-year's average earnings.

   The following table summarizes the Company's future contractual obligations
and commercial commitments (amounts in millions):


*Excluding $38.1 million of fair market value from interest rate swap
           agreements.

   The long-term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if
the Company was unable to meet its principal and interest payments when due.
The Company believes it has sufficient capital resources to satisfy these
obligations.

  Short-term Liquidity

   At the end of 2001, working capital, excluding cash and acquisitions
decreased $181.6 million from 2000 levels. The improvement is primarily related
to an $84.6 million reduction in receivables, as DSO (days sales




outstanding) fell to its lowest level in two years. Inventories were also down
$84.7 million from year-end 2000, the result of slow economic conditions and
the Company's efforts to reduce working capital. The majority of the reduction
in working capital levels was accomplished during the last half of 2001.
Accordingly, as a percent of fourth quarter annualized sales, working capital
(excluding cash) at year-end was down to 20.1%, versus 22.1% one year earlier.

   Working capital, excluding cash and acquisitions, increased $30.8 million
and $96.1 million for the years 2000 and 1999, respectively. During the last
half of 2000, the Company began concentrating on reducing working capital
levels. Due to the softening in market demand discussed below under "Results of
Operations", the desired reduction in inventory had not yet been achieved at
year-end. The increase in working capital during 1999 was due in large part to
increased same location sales volume, with some inventory build-up at the end
of 1999 due to anticipation of higher prices for certain key raw materials. The
following table shows the annual turnover on average year-end working capital,
trade receivables and inventories. The ratios may be affected by timing of the
Company's acquisitions.



   Receivables turnover in the Aluminum Products segment is lower than in the
other segments due principally to the seasonal nature of its gas barbecue grill
business. Also, aluminum commitments to certain customers result in carrying
higher levels of inventory than the Company's other segments. Recent
acquisitions concentrated in the Commercial Furnishings and Specialized
Products segments also contributed to reductions in working capital turnover
and inventory turnover due to increased production time and extended delivery
schedules in these businesses.

Results of Operations

  Discussion of Consolidated Results

   In 2001, sales were $4.11 billion, a decrease of 3.8% versus the record
sales of $4.28 billion set in 2000, declining for just the second time in the
Company's 34-year history as a public company. Sales growth from acquisitions
was more than offset by a 9.3% decline in same location sales, as decreased
unit volumes from weak market demand continued to negatively impact all five
business segments. Earnings, at $.94 per diluted share, were down $.38, or 29%,
from last year's $1.32.

   During 2000 and 1999, sales increased 13.2% and 12.1%, respectively, while
same location sales increased .2% and 2.9% for the same periods. Same location
sales growth primarily reflected increases in unit volumes. Internal growth
during 2000 was negatively impacted by reduced market demand across all
segments, particularly in the last half of the year. Selling prices in 2000 for
certain products include some recovery of higher raw material costs. Trends in
the general economy were very favorable during 1999, which had a positive
impact on unit volume, although 1999 was also impacted by lower selling prices
for certain products.

   The following table shows various measures of earnings as a percentage of
sales for the last three years. It also shows the effective income tax rate.






   The declines in 2001 and 2000 primarily reflect weakened demand in all of
the Company's business segments, as well as lower than expected performance in
the Company's Aluminum Products and Commercial Furnishings segments and some
parts of the Residential Furnishings segment. Production cutbacks, plant
restructuring and closure costs, reduced plant utilization and resulting lower
overhead absorption significantly impacted profit and EBIT margins. Plant
utilization in 2001 was further reduced due to the Company's efforts to reduce
inventory levels. Margins were also reduced in 2001 by higher bad debt expense
and worker's compensation costs. Increased medical expenses and higher energy
costs in both years contributed to lower margins. Lower incentive compensation
costs in both years, cost structure improvements and reduced overheads as a
result of the Company's tactical plan announced in September 2000 helped offset
these increasing costs. Interest expense was lower in 2001 versus 2000,
partially offsetting the decline in net margin. Higher interest expense during
2000 contributed to the decline in net margin versus 1999. The lower effective
income tax rate in 2000 (the same effective rate for 2001) primarily reflects a
reduction in foreign statutory rates compared to 1999.

   The Company is making steady progress on its tactical plan, aimed at
improving performance, margins and shareholder return. Through December 2001,
the Company has consolidated or sold 20 facilities; restructured other
operations; reduced full time equivalent headcount by approximately 3,700
(excluding acquisitions); conserved cash by reducing capital and acquisition
spending; and repurchased 4.9 million shares (primarily to offset shares issued
in employee programs). The Company expects to continue this tactical course for
as long as conditions warrant. Once economic conditions and performance
improve, subject to management discretion, the Company expects to return to its
traditional level of acquisition activity. The Company's strategic, long-term
growth plans remain unchanged.

   The increase in gross profit margin in 1999 reflected several favorable
factors. These included continued increases in production efficiencies,
increased sales of products with above average margins, lower material costs
and better manufacturing overhead absorption. The EBIT margin also increased
due to these factors, offset somewhat by higher operating costs as a percentage
of sales. Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, which include some
amount of fixed administrative and other costs, were higher because of lower
selling prices in certain product lines and higher operating costs in acquired
companies.

  Discussion of Segment Results

   A description of the products included in each segment, segment sales,
segment earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and other segment data appear
in Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Following is a
comparison of EBIT margins (Segment EBIT divided by Total Segment Sales):



   Residential Furnishings sales decreased 3.8% during 2001. Same location
sales, which were partially offset by acquisitions, decreased 5.9%. EBIT
declined $47.5 million, or 21.2%, as soft industry demand and inventory
reduction efforts resulted in lower production. The lower plant utilization
reduced overhead absorption, yielding lower margins. Also negatively impacting
EBIT during 2001 were restructuring charges of $6.5 million. For 2000,
Residential Furnishings sales increased 9.2%, with same location growth of
2.4%. Numerous acquisitions accounted for the balance of the growth. EBIT
increased 2.0%, with strong volume and efficiency gains in the first half of
the year offset by softening industry demand, efforts to reduce finished goods
inventory which resulted in lower production, and reduced overhead absorption
and efficiency starting in the third quarter.

   Commercial Furnishings sales decreased 3.5% during 2001, while same location
sales, which were partially offset by acquisitions, declined 11.7%. EBIT
decreased $56.1 million, or 51.4%, due primarily to lower same




location sales and reduced margins, reflecting poor business conditions in the
office and contract furniture markets, continued market weakness and reduced
fixture purchases in telecom and utility van industries, and plant
inefficiencies. Restructuring charges of $8.9 million also negatively impacted
EBIT. In 2000, Commercial Furnishings sales increased 26.7% due to numerous
acquisitions, with same location sales down 3.0%, as some customers for store
fixture, display, and storage products reduced purchases. EBIT declined 13.5%
in 2000 due to demand shortfalls, reduced margins attributable to the changing
mix of businesses, plant inefficiencies and a supplier disruption at a store
fixture and design firm acquired in 1999. Plant restructuring costs also had a
negative impact on EBIT margins.

   Aluminum Products sales decreased 15.7% in 2001. Same location sales were
down 17.2%, and were slightly offset by one acquisition. Reduced die cast
component sales reflect weak market demand in a variety of consumer and
industrial sectors including telecom, electrical, diesel engine and barbecue
grill markets. EBIT decreased $11.1 million, or 30.4%. The EBIT decrease
resulting from declining sales was partially offset by reduced overhead and
absence of last year's restructuring costs. In 2000, Aluminum Products sales
decreased .5%. Same location sales declined 1.6%, and were partially offset by
one acquisition. Starting in the second quarter, reduced die cast component
sales reflected weak market demand for a variety of consumer and industrial
products, including castings for barbecue grills, diesel truck engine
components, small gasoline engines, outdoor lighting and electrical products.
EBIT decreased 30.6%, reflecting significantly reduced production in the second
half of the year, plant underutilization, higher natural gas costs, smelting
losses, and plant closure costs.

   Industrial Materials sales decreased 2.5% in 2001. Same location sales were
down 9.9%, and were partially offset by acquisitions. EBIT decreased $18.1
million, or 24.5%, primarily as a result of reduced sales volumes and lower
plant utilization. During 2000, Industrial Materials sales increased 8.6%, with
same location growth of 2.5%. Acquisitions accounted for the balance of the
sales growth. EBIT improved 4.4% in 2000, however, EBIT margins were down
reflecting higher raw materials costs, primarily for steel rod and flat rolled
steel used to make wire and welded steel tubing, and production inefficiencies.

   Specialized Products sales increased 13.3% during 2001 due to acquisitions,
partially offset by a 3.2% decline in same location sales. EBIT decreased $4
million, or 8.6%, due primarily to slowing production and reduced demand in
automotive markets and the machinery group, along with changing product mix. In
2000, Specialized Products sales increased 32.2% due to acquisitions. Same
location sales declined .3%. EBIT increased 36.1%, reflecting acquisitions,
increased sales of specialized machinery with higher margins, and improved
efficiencies.

  Seasonality

   The percent of consolidated net sales by quarter, excluding the impact of
acquisitions, is as follows for the last three years:



   The Company does not experience significant seasonality, however, as
indicated in the above table, quarter-to-quarter sales can vary in proportion
to the total year by up to 3%. The timing of acquisitions and economic factors
in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of the Company's
businesses. In 2001 and 2000, the economic slowdown impacted the Company's
various businesses and "normal" seasonality was likely distorted somewhat in
these years. Nevertheless, for the Company's businesses in total, the second
and third




quarters have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth
quarters are generally lower. This small seasonality has become somewhat more
pronounced, with the third quarter higher and the fourth quarter showing lower
proportionate sales due to the growth of the store fixtures business of
Commercial Furnishings.

   Residential Furnishings and Commercial Furnishings typically have their
strongest sales in the second and third quarters. Commercial Furnishings
particularly has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixtures products, with
the first and fourth quarters generally lower. Aluminum Products sales are
proportionately greater in the first two calendar quarters due to gas barbecue
grill castings. Industrial Materials sales peak in the third and fourth
quarters from wire products used for baling cotton. Specialized Products has
relatively little quarter-to-quarter variation in sales, although the
automotive business is somewhat heavier in the first two quarters of the year,
and somewhat lower in the third quarter, due to model changeovers and plant
shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer.

Major Accounting Policies, Estimates and Other Factors Influencing Financial
Reporting

   As more fully disclosed in Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, the Company has adopted numerous accounting policies from among
acceptable alternatives, and management must make many critical estimates or
assumptions when preparing financial statements. The most critical estimates
and assumptions impacting the ongoing operations are as follows: credit losses;
costs related to worker's compensation, automobile, product and general
liability, property and medical programs; and inventory losses from
obsolescence. With respect to credit losses, the Company's customers are
diverse, but many are small-to-medium size companies and some are highly
leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly
and with little warning, particularly in the current difficult economic
environment, adding to the difficulty in estimating credit losses. Worker's
compensation and other program costs may require a long period after the actual
loss occurred before the exact amount of the cost is known. Estimates of these
costs over that period, which in some cases is several years, will vary from
the final amount. The Company carries insurance for individual losses that
exceed a certain amount specified for each program. Changing customer
specifications, technology, customer bankruptcy and other factors result in
inventory losses that are difficult to estimate precisely. At any financial
statement date, the impact of these factors on inventory value may not be
completely known. The Company's accounting estimates of these costs and losses
are based on available actuarial estimates, prior experience and close
monitoring of each loss exposure.

   The most significant estimates, other than for ongoing operations, are for
exposure to unusual litigation and claims and for the impact of plant
restructurings and closings. Accounting periods are impacted by these losses
when specific facts are known which affect the loss estimate. The Company has
not recorded any significant losses for litigation and claims for 2001-1999,
and management is not aware of any significant unrecorded exposures. The
Company records restructuring or plant closing losses generally when specific
implementation actions have been approved. No significant income is reflected
in the 2001-1999 financial statements for the reversal of restructuring or
plant closing losses accrued in a prior period.

   Other factors influencing the integrity of financial reporting have been
widely discussed in recent months in the financial press. Management does not
believe that the Company's financial statements are materially impacted by such
factors.

   For example, only approximately 2% of the Company's sales are recorded in
the consolidated financial statements based on other than product shipment. The
majority of the sales recorded for unshipped items are based on the "percentage
of completion" method due to the project nature of the item.

   As discussed in Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Company has a synthetic lease agreement. The synthetic lease involved a
$35.1 million "sale and leaseback" of aircraft and machinery, and no gain was
recorded on the sale of the assets to the lessor. This synthetic lease
arrangement provides access to the lessor's lower borrowing costs. Had the
Company not entered into the synthetic lease, an additional $35.1




million of equipment (+3.7% of consolidated net property, plant and equipment)
and debt (+3.6% of consolidated long-term debt) would have been included on the
Company's balance sheet.

   The Company uses few derivatives, except for the interest rate swaps
discussed in Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As
required by FASB Statement No. 133, the interest rate swaps, and related debt,
are recorded at market value in the balance sheet.

New Financial Accounting Standards Board Statements

   The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 142,
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" in 2001. Statement No. 142 requires,
among other things, that goodwill no longer be amortized to earnings, but
instead be tested periodically for impairment. The amortization of goodwill
ceases upon adoption of Statement No. 142 on January 1, 2002. The goodwill
amortization change will contribute ten cents per share to 2002 annual
earnings. During 2002, the Company will undertake the computation of the
implied fair value of goodwill for its reporting units to test if such implied
fair value is less than the carrying value of goodwill, and to identify
potential goodwill impairment. The Company cannot estimate at this time the
results of the Statement No. 142 goodwill impairment test.

   During August 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." This Statement addresses
financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal by sale of
long-lived assets. The provisions of this Statement are effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. This
Statement may impact the accounting and reporting for any future restructuring
or closing of facilities, but such impact cannot be estimated.

Forward-Looking Statements

   This report and other public reports or statements made from time to time by
the Company or its management may contain "forward-looking" statements
concerning possible future events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.
Such statements are identified either by the context in which they appear or by
use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," or the like.

   Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statement reflects only the
beliefs of the Company or its management at the time the statement is made. In
addition, readers should keep in mind that, because all forward-looking
statements deal with the future, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and
developments which might cause actual events or results to differ materially
from those envisioned or reflected in any forward-looking statement. Moreover,
the Company does not have and does not undertake any duty to update or revise
any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date
on which the statement was made. For all of these reasons, forward-looking
statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future events,
objectives, strategies, trends or results.

   It is not possible to anticipate and list all of the risks, uncertainties
and developments which may affect the future operations or performance of the
Company, or which otherwise may cause actual events or results to differ from
forward-looking statements. However, some of these risks and uncertainties
include the following: the Company's ability to improve operations and realize
cost savings, future growth of acquired companies, competitive and general
economic and market conditions and risks, such as the rate of economic growth
in the United States, inflation, government regulation, interest rates,
taxation, and the like; risks and uncertainties which could affect industries
or markets in which the Company participates, such as growth rates and
opportunities in those industries, or changes in demand for certain products,
etc.; and factors which could impact costs, including but not limited to the
availability and pricing of raw materials, the availability of labor and wage
rates, and fuel and energy costs.




Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

(Unaudited)
(Dollar amounts in millions)

Interest Rate

   The table below provides information about the Company's debt obligations
sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has no other significant
financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has
not typically in the past used derivative financial instruments to hedge its
exposure to interest rate changes. However, during 2000, $350 of 7.65% fixed
rate debt maturing in February 2005 and, in 1999, $14 of 6.90% fixed rate debt
maturing in June 2004 were issued and converted to variable rate debt by use of
interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements, which contain the same
payment dates as the original issues, are used primarily by the Company to
manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio, and are
included as variable rate debt in the table below. Substantially all of the
debt shown in the table below is denominated in United States dollars (U.S. $).
The fair value of fixed rate debt was greater than its carrying value by $13.8
at December 31, 2001, and was not significantly different from its carrying
value at December 31, 2000. The fair value of the fixed rate debt was
calculated using the U.S. Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 2001 and 2000
for similar remaining maturities, plus an estimated "spread" over such Treasury
securities representing the Company's interest costs under its medium-term note
program. The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different
from its recorded amount.


- --------
   *The 2002 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as the
        Company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either
        through reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving
        credit agreements.
  **Miscellaneous debt includes $38.1 million in market value adjustments of
                  related debt from interest rate swap agreements.

Exchange Rate

   The Company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to
transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although such
transactions have not been material in the past. The Company may occasionally
hedge firm commitments, other fixed expenses or amounts due in foreign
currencies related to its acquisition program. The decision by management to
hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. The amount of
forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2001 was zero, and the highest
amount during 2001 was approximately $8.3 (pay U.S. $/receive Mexican Pesos).

   The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term
commitment, and does not hedge any translation exposures. The investment in a
foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital




or notes. The Company's net investment in foreign subsidiaries subject to
translation exposure at December 31 is as follows:



Commodity Price

   The Company does not generally use derivative commodity instruments to hedge
its exposures to changes in commodity prices. The principal commodity price
exposure is aluminum, of which the Company had an estimated $46 and $50 (at
cost) in inventory at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company has
purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure
to aluminum price changes. No other commodity exposures are significant to the
Company.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

   The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in
this Report are listed in Item 14 and begin immediately after Item 14.

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

   Not applicable.

                                   PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

   Reference is made to the section entitled "Election of Directors" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 8, 2002, said sections being incorporated by
reference, for a description of the directors and persons nominated to become
directors of the Company.

   Current Board members Bob L. Gaddy, Robert A. Jefferies, Jr., Alexander M.
Levine and Duane W. Potter are not standing for election in 2002.

   Bob L. Gaddy, age 61, was first elected as a Director of the Company in
1996. On February 28, 2002, Mr. Gaddy retired as Senior Vice President of the
Company and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Aluminum Products,
positions which he held since 1996.

   Robert A. Jefferies, Jr., age 60, was first elected as a Director of the
Company in 1991. Information regarding positions and offices held with the
Company by Mr. Jefferies is provided below.

   Alexander M. Levine, age 70, is Managing Director of Waterline Capital LLC,
a venture capital investment firm. He previously served the Company as director
of International Development and later as Special Advisor. He was first elected
as a Director of the Company in 1989.

   Duane W. Potter, age 70, has served as Senior Vice President of the Company
and President--Foam Components Group since 1997. He previously served the
Company as Senior Vice President and President--Bedding Components Group from
1983 to 1997. Mr. Potter was first elected as a Director of the Company in 1996.




   The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of all
executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are normally elected
annually by the Board of Directors.



   Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements listed
as Exhibits to this Report, the executive officers serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Directors.

   Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served as Chairman of the Company's Board of
Directors since 1982. He has served the Company in various capacities since
1950, including service as Chief Executive Officer from 1960 until 1999 and as
President from 1960 to 1982.

   Felix E. Wright is the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. He
also serves as Vice Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Wright
has served the Company since 1959 including service as Chief Operating Officer
from 1979 to 1999.

   David S. Haffner was elected Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1999.
He has served as the Company's Executive Vice President since 1995. He
previously served the Company as Senior Vice President from 1992 to 1995. Mr.
Haffner joined the Company in 1983. Mr. Haffner is also President of Commercial
Furnishings.

   Jack D. Crusa has served the Company in various capacities since 1986,
including service as Vice President and President--Automotive Components since
1996. Mr. Crusa became Senior Vice President and President--Industrial
Materials in 1999.

   Karl G. Glassman has been employed by the Company in various capacities
since 1982. Mr. Glassman became Vice President and President--Bedding
Components in 1995 and became a Senior Vice President and President,
Residential Furnishings in 1999.

   Michael A. Glauber has served the Company since 1969. Mr. Glauber was named
Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration in 1990.

   Robert G. Griffin has been employed by the Company since 1992. Mr. Griffin
was named Vice President and Director of Mergers, Acquisitions and Strategic
Planning in 1995, President--Commercial Fixture and Display Group in 1998 and
Senior Vice President in 1999.




   Robert A. Jefferies, Jr. has served as Senior Vice President, Strategic
Planning of the Company since 2001. He previously served the Company as Senior
Vice President, Mergers, Acquisitions and Strategic Planning from 1990 to 2001.
He also served the Company as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
from 1977 to 1990.

   Ernest C. Jett was appointed General Counsel in 1997, and was elected Vice
President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant
General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal
Department from 1991 to 1997.

   Allan J. Ross has served the Company as Vice President, Accounting since
1993. In May 1996, Mr. Ross was designated by the Board of Directors as the
Company's Principal Accounting Officer.

   Robert A. Wagner has served as Vice President, Mergers and Acquisitions
since 2001. He previously served the Company as Vice President, Mergers,
Acquisitions and Strategic Planning from 1998 to 2001. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Wagner was Vice President of Graco Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
from 1991 to 1997, most recently serving as Vice President Asia Pacific and
President Graco KK in Yokohama, Japan from 1995 to 1997.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

   The section entitled "Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 8, 2002, is incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

   The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's definitive
Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 8, 2002, is incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

   The subsection entitled "Related Transactions" of the section entitled
"Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8,
2002 is incorporated by reference.

                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

   1. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule Covered by Report
of Independent Accountants.

   The Financial Statements listed below are included in this Report:


   . Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years in the three
     year period ended December 31, 2001

   . Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000

   . Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three
     year period ended December 31, 2001

   . Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of the
     years in the three year period ended December 31, 2001

   . Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements




   . Quarterly Summary of Earnings (Unaudited)

   . Schedule for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31,

      Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

   All other information schedules have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

   2. Exhibits--See Exhibit Index.

   3. Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of 2001--A Form 8-K was
filed November 1, 2001, Item 5 "Other Events" reported, disclosing that UMB
Bank, N.A. has been appointed to serve as Rights Agent under the Company's
Rights Agreement, dated February 15, 1999, and as its Registrar and Transfer
Agent.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS





  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                   LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.





                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

              (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)

                       December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

A--Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

   Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (Leggett & Platt) and its
majority-owned subsidiaries (the Company). All intercompany transactions and
accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.

   Cash Equivalents: Cash equivalents include cash in excess of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with original
maturities of three months or less.

   Sales Recognition: The Company primarily recognizes sales upon the shipment
of its products. Exceptions to this policy are not significant and conform to
industry practices.

   Inventories: All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
includes materials, labor and production overhead. Cost is determined by the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 50% of the inventories at
December 31, 2001 and 2000. The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is
principally used for the remainder. The FIFO cost of inventories at December
31, 2001 and 2000 approximated replacement cost.

   Depreciation, Amortization and Asset Impairment: Property, plant and
equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method. The rates of
depreciation range from 7% to 25% for machinery and equipment, 3% to 7% for
buildings and 12% to 33% for other items. Accelerated methods are used for tax
purposes. The excess cost of purchased companies over net assets acquired prior
to July 1, 2001 is amortized by the straight-line method over forty years.
Other intangibles are amortized by the straight-line method over their
estimated lives. The rates of amortization range from 2.5% to 33%. In
accordance with FASB Statement No. 121, long-lived assets, including
intangibles, are evaluated for probable recovery of their carrying amount.
Appropriate adjustment, using current market values, estimates of discounted
future cash flows and other methods, is made when recovery of the carrying
amount is not reasonably assured.

   Concentration of Credit Risks, Exposures and Financial Instruments: The
Company engages in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing engineered
products for markets served by the Company as described in Note J. The
Company's operations are principally in the United States, although the Company
also has manufacturing subsidiaries in Canada, Europe, Mexico, China, Brazil
and Australia and marketing and distribution operations in other areas.

   The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
conditions and generally requires no collateral from its customers, some of
which are highly leveraged. The Company maintains allowances for potential
credit losses and such losses have generally been within management's
expectations.

   From time to time, the Company will enter into forward exchange contracts to
hedge transactions in foreign currencies and interest rate swaps related to
fixed rate debt. The amounts outstanding under the forward contracts are not
significant to the Company. The Company has minimal continuing exposures to
foreign currency transactions and interest rate fluctuations.

   The carrying value of cash and short-term financial instruments approximates
fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. The fair value of
long-term debt is not significantly different than its carrying value.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Other Risks: The Company obtains insurance for workers' compensation,
automobile, product and general liability, property loss and medical claims.
However, the Company has elected to retain a significant portion of expected
losses through the use of deductibles. Provisions for losses expected under
these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the aggregate
liability for claims incurred. These estimates utilize the Company's prior
experience and actuarial assumptions that are provided by the Company's
insurance carriers.

   Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

   Income Taxes: The Company provides for taxes on undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries where appropriate. The tax effect of most distributions
would be significantly offset by available foreign tax credits.

   Foreign Currency Translation: The functional currency for most foreign
operations is the local currency. The translation of foreign currencies into
U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet accounts using current exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for income and expense accounts
using monthly average exchange rates. The cumulative effects of translating the
functional currencies into the U.S. dollar are included in comprehensive
income. Foreign entities whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar are not
significant.

B--Acquisitions

   During 2001, the Company acquired 10 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. Purchase acquisitions required the use of $95.1 in cash, net
of cash acquired, and 61,026 shares of common stock valued at $1.2. These
amounts include additional consideration of $13.7 paid for prior year
acquisitions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
assets acquired increased goodwill by $64.3 of which $43.2 is expected to
provide an income tax benefit. These acquired businesses manufacture and
distribute products primarily to the commercial furnishings and industrial
materials markets, as well as the other markets the Company serves.

   The unaudited pro forma consolidated net sales for the years ended December
31, 2001 and 2000 as though the 2001 acquisitions had occurred on January 1 of
each year presented were $4,204.9 and $4,476.8, respectively. The unaudited pro
forma consolidated net earnings and earnings per share are not materially
different from the amounts reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
These pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of either results of
operations that would have occurred had the purchases been made on January 1 of
each year or of future results of the combined companies.

   During 2000, the Company acquired 21 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. Purchase acquisitions required the use of $252.3 in cash, net
of cash acquired, and 268,791 shares or share equivalents of common stock
valued at $5.3. These amounts include additional consideration of $9.4 paid for
prior year acquisitions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value
of the net assets acquired increased goodwill by $166.6 of which $127.0 is
expected to provide an income tax benefit. These acquired businesses
manufacture and distribute products primarily to the commercial furnishings and
specialized products markets, as well as the other markets the Company serves.

   During 1999, the Company acquired 29 businesses in transactions accounted
for as purchases. Purchase acquisitions required the use of $290.1 in cash, net
of cash acquired, and 1,227,500 shares of common stock valued at $25.8. Options
to purchase an additional 39,568 shares of common stock valued at $1.1 were
also extended by the Company in substitution for previously existing options.
These amounts include additional consideration of $19.3 paid for prior year
acquisitions. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
assets acquired increased goodwill by $233.4 of which $138.8 is expected to
provide an income tax benefit. These acquired businesses manufacture and
distribute products primarily to the commercial furnishings and residential
furnishings markets, as well as the other markets the Company serves.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The results of operations of the above acquired companies have been included
in the consolidated financial statements since the dates of acquisition.

   The terms of certain of the Company's acquisition agreements provide for
additional consideration to be paid if the acquired company's results of
operations exceed certain targeted levels. Such additional consideration may be
paid in cash or shares of the Company's common stock, and is recorded when
earned as additional purchase price. The maximum amount of additional
consideration remaining at December 31, 2001 is approximately $72 and will be
payable, if earned, through 2005.

C--Earnings Per Share

   Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:







                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


D--Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities

   Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of the
following:



E--Long-Term Debt

   Long-term debt, weighted average interest rates and due dates at December 31
are as follows:



   The Company had interest rate swap agreements on $364 of its fixed-rate
medium-term notes at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These swap
agreements, which convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt, contain the
same payment dates as the original issues, and are used by the Company to
manage the fixed/variable interest rate mix of its debt portfolio. In
accordance with FASB Statement No. 133, which became effective January 1, 2001,
the market value of these swaps is shown as an adjustment of the corresponding
debt's market value in the preceding table. Other assets include the
corresponding market value of the interest rate swaps.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   At December 31, 2001, the revolving credit agreements provided for a maximum
line of credit of $342.5. For any revolving credit agreement, the Company may
elect to pay interest based on 1) the bank's base lending rate, 2) LIBOR, 3) an
adjusted certificate of deposit rate, or 4) the money market rate, as specified
in the revolving credit agreements. Agreement amounts of $110.0 and $232.5 will
terminate August 26, 2002 and July 31, 2004, respectively, at which time all
outstanding balances will become due.

   Medium-term notes and commercial paper that mature in the current year are
classified as long-term debt since the Company intends to refinance them on a
long-term basis either through continued issuance or unused credit available
under the revolving credit agreements.

   The revolving credit agreements and certain other long-term debt contain
restrictive covenants which, among other restrictions, limit the amount of
additional debt and require net earnings to meet or exceed specified levels of
funded debt.

   Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 2001 are:




F--Lease Obligations

   The Company conducts certain operations in leased premises and also leases
most of its automotive and trucking equipment and some other assets. Terms of
the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease.

   Total rental expense entering into the determination of results of
operations was $47.3, $42.8 and $36.4 for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively.

   Future minimum rental commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating
leases are as follows:



   The above lease obligations expire at various dates through 2010. Certain
leases contain renewal and/or purchase options. Aggregate rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to renew
the lease.

   During the last half of 2001, the Company entered into synthetic lease
arrangements where it sold $35.1 million of aircraft and machinery (equipment)
to a third party and leased the equipment back under a four-year operating
lease. There are annual renewal options up to three years. If the Company does
not exercise its purchase option at the end of the lease, it must pay the
lessor a maximum amount of $18.8, which amount will be reduced by the net sales
proceeds of the equipment to a third party. The Company does not believe that
it will have any payment obligations at the end of the lease because either the
Company will exercise the purchase option, or the net proceeds from sale of the
equipment will exceed the maximum amount payable to the lessor.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

G--Capital Stock

  Stock Activity

   Activity in the Company's stock accounts for each of the three years ended
December 31 is as follows:



   The Company issues shares for employee stock plans and acquisitions. The
Company purchases its common stock to meet the requirements of the employee
stock purchase and incentive plans, to replace shares issued in purchase
acquisitions and to satisfy contractual obligations. The Company will also
receive shares in stock option exercises.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


  Stock Options

   At December 31, 2001, the Company had 16,707,668 common shares authorized
for issuance under stock option plans. Generally, options become exercisable in
varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant, have a
maximum term of 5-10 years, and are issued with exercise prices at market.
However, the Company grants below market options under a deferred compensation
program. This program allows senior managers to receive stock options in lieu
of cash salary and bonuses. These options include a discount feature which does
not exceed 15% and have a term of fifteen years. A summary of the Company's
stock option plans as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, and changes during
the years ending on those dates is as follows:



   The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2001:



   The Company applies the intrinsic value based method of accounting
prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for
stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, compensation cost for stock
options is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the
Company's stock at the date of grant over the amount an employee must pay to
acquire the stock.





                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

   Compensation cost charged against income related to the Company's stock
option grants for each of the years ending December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
$9.4, $11.2 and $11.5, respectively. Compensation cost includes amounts for
options granted under the deferred compensation plan for senior managers, which
allows the manager to elect stock options in lieu of salary and bonuses.

   The Company's proforma net income and proforma earnings per share, with
related assumptions, are disclosed in the following table. This information is
presented as if compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation
plans had been determined based on the estimated fair value of the options at
the grant dates, consistent with the method prescribed by FASB Statement No.
123. Also disclosed are the weighted-average fair value and exercise price of
options granted during the last three years.



   The Company also has authorized shares for issuance in connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note H.

  Par Value Amendment

   In 1993, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's
Restated Articles of Incorporation reducing the par value of Common Stock to
$.01 from $1. The amendment provided that the stated capital of the Company
would not be affected as of the date of the amendment. Accordingly, stated
capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common stock in the
financial statements by approximately $39.

  Shareholder Protection Rights Plan

   In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock. The Rights were
attached to and traded with the Company's common stock. The Rights became
exercisable only under certain circumstances involving actual or potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. The Rights expired in February
1999. The Company simultaneously issued substantially identical rights, which
remain in existence until February 2009, unless they are exercised, exchanged
or redeemed at an earlier date. Depending upon the circumstances, if these
Rights become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase shares of
Series A junior preferred stock of the Company, shares of the Company's common
stock or shares of common stock of the acquiring entity.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


H--Employee Benefit Plans

   The following table provides information at December 31 as to the Company's
sponsored domestic defined benefit pension plans. The Company's foreign defined
benefit pension plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate.



   Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt and
government securities, including 1,176,000 shares of the Company's common stock
at December 31, 2001.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Contributions to union sponsored, defined benefit, multiemployer pension
plans were $.7, $.8, and $.7 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These plans
are not administered by the Company and contributions are determined in
accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts. As of 2001, the
actuarially computed values of vested benefits for these plans were primarily
equal to or less than the net assets of the plans. Therefore, the Company would
have no material withdrawal liability. However, the Company has no present
intention of withdrawing from any of these plans, nor has the Company been
informed that there is any intention to terminate such plans.

   Net pension (income) expense, including Company sponsored defined benefit
plans, multiemployer plans and other plans, was $(.8), $2.2 and $4.3 in 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively.

   The Company has a contributory stock purchase/stock bonus plan (SPSB Plan),
a nonqualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an employees'
discount stock plan (DSP). The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax contributions
of 50% of the amount of employee contributions. The ESPP provides cash payments
of 50% of the employees' contributions, along with an additional payment to
assist employees in paying taxes on the cash payments. To the extent possible,
contributions to the ESPP are invested in the Company's common stock through
the DSP. In addition, the Company matches its contributions when certain
profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan and the ESPP, have been
attained. The Company's total contributions to the SPSB Plan and the ESPP were
$8.3, $9.7 and $8.5 for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Beginning January 1,
2002, the SPSB Plan was converted to an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
and the ESPP was replaced by an Employee Stock Unit Program (ESUP). These
changes will have no significant effect on the Company's total cost of the
plans.

   Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 19,000,000
shares of Company common stock. The purchase price per share is 85% of the
closing market price on the last business day of each month. Shares purchased
under the DSP were 1,052,938 in 2001, 1,287,437 in 2000, and 1,026,479 in 1999.
Purchase prices ranged from $13 to $24 per share. Since inception of the DSP in
1982, a total of 16,467,597 shares have been purchased by employees.




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


I--Income Taxes

   The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:



   Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:



   Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the
financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities. The major temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets or liabilities are as follows:



   Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance
sheets are as follows:






                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, differs
from the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:



J--Segment Information

   Reportable segments are primarily based upon the Company's management
organizational structure. This structure is generally focused on broad end-user
markets for the Company's diversified products. Residential Furnishings derives
its revenues from components for bedding, furniture and other furnishings, as
well as related consumer products. Commercial Furnishings derives its revenues
from retail store fixtures, displays, storage, material handling systems,
components for office and institutional furnishings, and plastic components.
The Aluminum Products revenues are derived from die castings, custom tooling,
secondary machining and coating, and smelting of aluminum ingot. Industrial
Materials derives its revenues from drawn steel wire, specialty wire products
and welded steel tubing sold to trade customers as well as other Leggett
segments. Specialized Products is a combination of non-reportable segments
which derive their revenues from machinery, manufacturing equipment, automotive
seating suspensions, control cable systems and lumbar supports for automotive,
office and residential applications.

   The accounting principles used in the preparation of the segment information
are the same as used for the consolidated financial statements, except that the
segment assets and income reflect the FIFO basis of accounting for inventory.
Certain inventories are accounted for using the LIFO basis in the consolidated
financial statements. The Company evaluates performance based on earnings from
operations before interest and income taxes (EBIT). Intersegment sales are made
primarily at prices that approximate market-based selling prices. Centrally
incurred costs are allocated to the segments based on estimates of services
used by the segment. Certain general and administrative costs of the Company
are allocated to the segments based on sales. Asset information for the
segments includes only inventory, trade receivables, net property, plant and
equipment and unamortized purchased intangibles. These segment assets are
reflected in the segment information at their estimated average for the year.
Long-lived assets as disclosed include property, plant and equipment, goodwill
and other intangibles, and long-term assets. Centrally incurred costs and
allocated general and administrative costs include depreciation and other costs
related to assets that are not allocated or otherwise included in the segment
assets.

   Summarized financial information concerning the Company's reportable
segments is shown in the following tables. Segment amounts for prior years have
been restated to conform to the 2001 presentation:




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)







                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)







                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Revenues from external customers, by product line, are as follows:



   The Company's operations outside of the United States are principally in
Canada, Europe and Mexico. The geographic information that follows regarding
sales is based on the area of manufacture.






                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


K--Contingencies

   The Company is involved in various legal proceedings including matters which
involve claims against the Company under employment, intellectual property,
environmental and other laws. When it appears probable in management's
judgement that the Company will incur monetary damages or other costs in
connection with claims and proceedings, and the costs can be reasonably
estimated, appropriate liabilities are recorded in the financial statements and
charges are made against earnings. No claim or proceeding has resulted in a
material charge against earnings, nor are the total liabilities recorded
material to the Company's financial position. While the results of any ultimate
resolution cannot be predicted, management believes the possibility of a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position,
results of operations and cash flows from claims and proceedings is remote.




                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

   To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 14(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statements schedules
listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statements schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statements schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
St. Louis, Missouri
January 30, 2002




                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         QUARTERLY SUMMARY OF EARNINGS

                                  (Unaudited)
              (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)






                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

          SCHEDULE II-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                             (Amounts in millions)

- --------
(A) Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recoveries




                                  SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED

                                                  /S/  FELIX E. WRIGHT
                                          By:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      Felix E. Wright
                                                       President and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 28, 2002

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

          Signature                       Title                  Date
          ---------                       -----                  ----

(a) Principal Executive
Officer:

    /S/  FELIX E. WRIGHT      Vice Chairman of the Board,   March 28, 2002
- -----------------------------   President & Chief Executive
       Felix E. Wright          Officer

(b) Principal Financial
Officer:

   /S/  MICHAEL A. GLAUBER    Senior Vice President,        March 28, 2002
- -----------------------------   Finance & Administration
     Michael A. Glauber

(c) Principal Accounting
Officer:

     /S/  ALLAN J. ROSS       Vice President--Accounting    March 28, 2002
- -----------------------------
        Allan J. Ross

(d) Directors:

   HARRY M. CORNELL, JR.*     Chairman
- -----------------------------
    Harry M. Cornell, Jr.

     RAYMOND F. BENTELE*      Director
- -----------------------------
     Raymond F. Bentele

       RALPH W. CLARK*        Director
- -----------------------------
       Ralph W. Clark





          Signature                       Title             Date
          ---------                       -----             ----

    ROBERT TED ENLOE, III*    Director
- -----------------------------
    Robert Ted Enloe, III

      RICHARD T. FISHER*      Director
- -----------------------------
      Richard T. Fisher

        BOB L. GADDY*         Director
- -----------------------------
        Bob L. Gaddy

      DAVID S. HAFFNER*       Director
- -----------------------------
      David S. Haffner

       THOMAS A. HAYS*        Director
- -----------------------------
       Thomas A. Hays

  ROBERT A. JEFFERIES, JR.*   Director
- -----------------------------
  Robert A. Jefferies, Jr.

     ALEXANDER M. LEVINE*     Director
- -----------------------------
     Alexander M. Levine

       DUANE W. POTTER*       Director
- -----------------------------
       Duane W. Potter

   MAURICE E. PURNELL, JR.*   Director
- -----------------------------
   Maurice E. Purnell, Jr.

       ALICE L. WALTON*       Director
- -----------------------------
       Alice L. Walton

       FELIX E. WRIGHT*       Vice-Chairman and Director
- -----------------------------
       Felix E. Wright


*By:   /S/  ERNEST C. JETT              March 28, 2002
     -----------------------
         Ernest C. Jett
        Attorney-in-Fact
     Under Power-of-Attorney
     dated February 13, 2002




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX












- --------
(1) Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




