
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
  [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
 
                                      OR
 
  [_]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                      For the Transition period from  to
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-7845
 
                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
               MISSOURI                              44-0324630
    (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF     (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)
    INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
 
          NO. 1 LEGGETT ROAD                            64836
          CARTHAGE, MISSOURI                         (ZIP CODE)
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
               OFFICES)
 
      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (417) 358-8131
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $4,184,896,482.
 
  There were 97,977,739 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding as
of February 27, 1998.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 13, 1998, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this report.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  The Company is a manufacturer. It was incorporated in 1901 as the successor
to a partnership formed in 1883 at Carthage, Missouri. That partnership was a
pioneer in the manufacture and sale of steel coil bedsprings. The Company
today serves markets for components and related products for bedding,
furniture and other furnishings including commercial fixtures, store displays,
shelving, and related products as well as materials, equipment and
technologies used by Company operations and other manufacturers in diverse
markets. The term "Company," unless the context requires otherwise, refers to
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its majority owned subsidiaries.
 
  General Development of Business. In 1997 and the first ten weeks of 1998 the
Company acquired 39 businesses with aggregate annualized sales of
approximately $560 million. Twenty-eight of the acquired operations produce
furnishings, components, commercial fixtures or related furnishings products.
Annualized sales of these operations total approximately $400 million. Also
acquired were three aluminum die casting companies with aggregate annualized
sales of approximately $80 million and eight businesses producing other
materials used by the Company to manufacture its products or which utilize
specialized product or manufacturing technologies with aggregate annualized
sales of approximately $80 million.
 
  Reference is also made to Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information about the Company's acquisitions in 1997.
 
  Products, Customers and Markets. The Company's products include a broad line
of components used by manufacturers to make finished products, finished
furnishings such as commercial fixtures and displays and a number of different
products outside the furnishings industry. Examples of furnishings components
manufactured by the Company include (i) innerspring and boxspring units for
mattresses and boxsprings; (ii) foam, textile, fiber and other cushioning
materials for bedding and furniture; (iii) springs and seating suspensions for
chairs, sofas and other furniture; (iv) steel mechanisms and hardware for
reclining chairs, sleeper sofas and other types of motion furniture; (v) chair
controls, bases and columns for office furniture; (vi) aluminum die cast
components for gas barbecue grills, outdoor lighting fixtures, clean room
flooring and furniture, (vii) molded plastic parts and seating constructions;
(viii) non-fashion construction fabrics; and (ix) other furniture supplies.
 
  The Company's diverse range of components gives its furnishings
manufacturer-customers access to a single source for many of their component
needs. For example, a manufacturer of bedding can come to the Company for
almost every component part of a mattress and boxspring, except the
upholstering material. This same principle holds true for manufacturers of
other furnishings such as upholstered recliner chairs, sofas and loveseats and
office chairs. Because the Company has the advantage of long production runs
and numerous production and assembly locations, it can generally produce
component products more efficiently than its customers. Therefore, components
customers can focus on the design, style and marketing of their various
furnishings products, rather than the production of components.
 
  The Company also manufactures and sells finished furnishings. These finished
products include metal and wooden shelving, point-of-purchase displays and
other commercial fixtures; bed frames; daybeds; bunk beds; headboards;
adjustable electric beds; fashion beds and carpet underlay.
 
  The Company's products are sold and distributed primarily through its own
sales personnel. The Company has several thousand customers, most of which are
manufacturers. The Company is not dependent upon any single customer or any
few customers. A large number of the Company's furnishings customers
manufacture finished bedding (mattresses and boxsprings) or upholstered and
non-upholstered furniture for home, office, institutions and commercial
applications. Customers for commercial furnishings include manufacturers of
packaged consumer products and retailers that use the Company's products to
display a wide variety of merchandise throughout their facilities and at
point-of-purchase. Some of the finished furniture produced by the Company is
sold to bedding and furniture manufacturers that resell the furniture under
their own labels to wholesalers or retailers. Certain finished furniture, such
as bed frames, fashion beds, daybeds and other select items, are also sold by
the Company directly to retailers.
 

 
  Outside the furnishings industry, the Company also produces and sells a
number of different products for various consumer and industrial markets.
These products require manufacturing technologies similar to those used in
making furnishings products. Materials which the Company produces for its own
use are sold to customers outside the Company as well. Examples of these
diverse products include: (i) aluminum die castings sold to manufacturers of
small to mid-size gasoline engines, large and mid-range diesel engines,
motorcycles, recreational boats, electric motors and telecommunications
equipment; (ii) non-fashion fabrics sold to apparel manufacturers; (iii) bale-
tie machinery and parts and galvanized wire and wire ties sold to customers
who compact and recycle solid waste or bale cotton or synthetic fibers; (iv)
seating components and systems, and other sound insulation materials sold to
automotive suppliers; (v) steel wire and welded steel tubing sold to
manufacturers of a wide range of industrial and consumer products; (vi)
aluminum ingot sold to manufacturers of aluminum products; (vii) motion
controls for manufacturing equipment; (viii) quilting machinery and materials
handling equipment sold to manufacturers of consumer products; and (ix)
injection molded plastic products.
 
  The Company's customers for these diverse products participate in a number
of different specialized or niche markets for consumer and industrial
products. These customers have requirements for various aluminum die castings,
components for automotive seating and sound insulation, various kinds and
sizes of steel wire and steel tubing, non-fashion fabrics, cushioning
materials, specialized production equipment and proprietary motion controls
for manufacturing machinery.
 
  The table below sets out further information concerning sales of each class
of the Company's products:
 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                               SUMMARY OF SALES
 

 
  Reference is also made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further segment information.
 
  Foreign sales are a minor portion of the Company's business. However,
foreign sales are growing and the Company is cautiously proceeding to expand
in foreign locations where opportunities present themselves.
 
  The Company has several operations in Canada producing primarily components
used by manufacturers of bedding and furniture products as well as commercial
fixtures. The Company's international operations outside Canada are primarily
located in Europe and Mexico and involve (i) the sale of machinery and
equipment designed to manufacture the Company's innersprings, certain other
spring products and bedding and other products manufactured by the Company's
customers, (ii) the licensing of patents owned and presently maintained by the
Company in foreign countries, (iii) aluminum die casting, and (iv) the
production of seating components, wire innerspring and boxspring units.
 
  Reference is made to Note J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning the Company's operations outside
of the United States.
 

 
  Raw Materials. The Company uses a variety of raw materials in manufacturing
its products. Some of the Company's most important raw materials include steel
rod from which steel wire is drawn, coil steel, woven and nonwoven fabrics,
aluminum, aluminum scrap, angle iron, sheet steel, dimension lumber, textile
scrap, foam chemicals, foam scrap, and plastic. Substantially all of the
Company's requirements for steel wire, an important material in many of the
Company's products, are supplied by Company-owned wire drawing mills. The
Company also produces, at various locations, for its own consumption and for
sale to customers not affiliated with the Company, slit coil steel, welded
steel tubing, textile fibers, dimension lumber and aluminum ingot from scrap
aluminum. Numerous supply sources for the raw materials used by the Company
are available. The Company did not experience any significant shortages of raw
materials during the past year.
 
  Patents and Trademarks. The Company holds numerous patents concerning its
various product lines. No single patent or group of patents is material to the
Company's business as a whole. Examples of the Company's more significant
trademarks include SEMI-FLEX(TM), LOK-Fast(TM) and DYNA-Lock(TM) (boxspring
components and foundations); Mira-Coil(R) and Lura-Flex(TM) (mattress
innersprings); Nova-Bond(R) and Flexnet(TM) (insulators for mattresses);
ADJUSTA-MAGIC (adjustable electric beds); Wallhugger(R) and Hi-Style(TM)
(recliner chairs); SUPER SAGLESS(R) (motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms); no-
sag(R) (sinuous wire); Matrex(R) (webbing seating systems); and Gribetz, Spuhl
and Cyclo-Index (machinery).
 
  Research and Development. The Company maintains research, engineering and
testing centers at Carthage, Missouri, and also does research and development
work at several of its other facilities. The Company is unable to precisely
calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved
in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in
other areas. However, the Company believes the cost of research and
development was approximately $10 million in 1997, $9 million in 1996 and $7
million in 1995.
 
  Employees. The Company has approximately 26,000 employees of whom
approximately 21,000 are engaged in production. Approximately 28% of the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions. The Company
did not experience any material work stoppage related to the negotiation of
contracts with labor unions during 1997. Management is not aware of any
circumstances which are likely to result in a material work stoppage related
to the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 1998.
 
  Competition. There are many companies offering products which compete with
those manufactured and sold by the Company. The markets for the Company's
products are highly competitive in all aspects. Given the diverse range of
components and other products produced by the Company, the number of other
companies competing with respect to any class or type of components or other
products varies over the Company's product range. There are also a number of
maker-users (vertically integrated manufacturers) of many of the products the
Company manufactures. The primary competitive factors in the Company's
business include price, product quality and customer service. To the best of
the Company's knowledge, it is the largest supplier in the United States of a
diverse range of components to the furnishings industry.
 
  Backlog. The Company's relationship with its customers and its manufacturing
and inventory practices do not provide for the traditional backlog associated
with some manufacturing entities and no backlog data is regularly prepared or
used by management.
 
  Government Regulation. The Company's various operations are subject to
federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of
the environment, worker safety, and other matters. Environmental regulations
include those relating to air and water emissions, underground storage tanks,
waste handling, and the like. While the Company cannot forecast policies that
may be adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that
compliance with these various laws and regulations will not have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of
operations of the Company.
 
  One of the Company's subsidiaries is performing an environmental
investigation at a Florida plant site pursuant to a negotiation with local and
Federal environmental authorities. The costs of the investigation and expected
remediation actions will be shared equally by the Company and a former joint
owner of the plant site.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's most important physical properties are its manufacturing
plants. These manufacturing plants include five wire drawing mills, three
welded steel tubing mills, two aluminum smelting operations and over 130 major
manufacturing facilities located in over 30 states, Canada and Mexico. Other
Company locations are engaged in assembly, warehousing, sales, administration
or research and development. In addition, the Company has several locations in
Europe and other foreign countries outside North America. Its corporate
headquarters are located in Carthage, Missouri.
 
  Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the Company.
The Company also conducts certain operations in leased premises. Terms of the
leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease. For additional information regarding lease obligations, reference is
made to Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  Properties of the Company include facilities which, in the opinion of
management, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of its products. These properties are located to allow quick and
efficient deliveries and necessary service to the Company's diverse customer
base.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The Company is a defendant in various workers' compensation, product
liability, vehicle accident, employment, intellectual property, labor
practices and other claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which
management believes will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company in
the ordinary course of business.
 
  The Company is party to a small number of proceedings in which a
governmental authority is a party and which involve laws regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment. These proceedings deal primarily
with waste disposal site remediation. Management believes that potential
monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or any
capital expenditures or operating expenses attributable to these proceedings,
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  Not Applicable.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET DATA FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
 
STOCK MARKET AND OWNERSHIP DATA
 
  The Company's common stock is listed on The New York and Pacific Stock
Exchanges with the trading symbol LEG. The table below highlights quarterly
and annual stock market information for the last two years.
 

- --------
Price and volume data reflect composite transactions and prices as reported
daily by The Wall Street Journal.
 
  The Company had 12,338 shareholders of record on March 11, 1998.
 
  During the fourth quarter of 1997 the Company issued 59,727 shares of its
common stock in transactions which qualified for exemption from registration
under the Securities Act by virtue of Regulation D and Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act. These securities were issued in connection with the
acquisition of two businesses. On October 6, 1997, 20,681 shares were issued
pursuant to Regulation D and Section 4(2) to acquire Syd-Ren Industries, Inc.
from its sole shareholder. On December 11, 1997, 39,046 shares were issued
pursuant to Regulation D and Section 4(2) to acquire Miller Manufacturing &
Lumber Sales, Inc. from its shareholders.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 
  Merger related costs of $16.4 after-tax or $.18 per basic and diluted share
are included in 1996 earnings from continuing operations.
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
 
  The Company's financial position reflects several important principles and
guidelines of management's capital policy. These include management's belief
that corporate liquidity must always be adequate to support the Company's
projected growth rate. At the same time, liquidity must assure management that
the Company will be able to withstand any amount of financial adversity that
can reasonably be anticipated. Management also intends to direct capital to
strategic acquisitions and other investments that provide additional
opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.
 
  Financial planning to meet these needs reflects management's belief that the
Company should never be forced to expand its capital resources, whether debt
or equity, at a time not of its choosing. Management also believes that
financial flexibility is more important than maximization of earnings per
share through excessive leverage. Therefore, management continuously provides
for available credit in excess of projected cash needs and has maintained a
guideline for long-term debt as a percentage of total capitalization in a
range of 30% to 40%.
 
 Total Capitalization
 
  The following table shows the Company's total capitalization at the end of
the three most recent years. The table also shows the amount of unused
committed credit available through the Company's revolving bank credit
agreements.
 

 
  Cash provided by operating activities totaled $714.2 million during the last
three years. Long-term debt outstanding was 27% of total capitalization at the
end of the last two years, which compares to 32% in 1995. As shown in the
table above, obligations having scheduled maturities are the base "layer" of
the Company's debt capital. At the end of 1997, these obligations consisted
primarily of the Company's privately placed medium-term notes and tax-exempt
industrial development bonds. In April 1997, the Company issued $100 million
in medium-term notes. Proceeds from the notes were used to repay commercial
paper outstanding.
 
  In June 1996, the Company also issued $100 million in medium-term notes.
Proceeds from these notes provided a majority of the funds required to redeem,
at 113% of par value, all of the Pace Holdings, Inc. (Pace) publicly owned
senior notes that were to mature in almost 7 years and had fixed interest
rates of 10.625%. Funds required to refinance the balance of the senior notes
and Pace's revolving credit initially were provided through the Company's
revolving credit/commercial paper arrangements. In August 1996, the Company
issued an additional $25 million in medium-term notes. Proceeds from these
notes were used to repay a portion of revolving credit/commercial paper
outstanding.
 

 
  In 1995, $25 million in 10-year notes were issued. Proceeds from these
medium-term notes were used to repay a portion of the Company's revolving
credit. The Company's senior debt ratings have been maintained at single A by
Standard & Poor's and single A2 by Moody's during each of the last three
years.
 
  The second "layer" of the Company's debt capital consists of revolving bank
credit agreements and commercial paper issuances. Over the years, management
has renegotiated the bank credit agreements and established a commercial paper
program to continuously support the Company's projected growth and to maintain
highly flexible sources of debt capital. The credit under these arrangements
has been a long-term obligation. If needed, however, the credit is available
for short-term borrowings and repayments. Pace also had $47.2 million in
revolving credit outstanding at the end of 1995, which was included in the
Company's total revolving credit/commercial paper outstanding. Additional
details of long-term debt, including scheduled maturities, revolving credit
and commercial paper are discussed in Note E of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
 Uses of Capital Resources
 
  The Company's internal investments to modernize and expand manufacturing
capacity totaled $322.4 million in the last three years. In 1998, management
anticipates internal investments will approximate $135 million. During the
last three years, the Company employed $289.9 million in cash (net of cash
acquired) and issued 11.8 million shares of common stock in acquisitions,
including 5.1 million shares to acquire Pace. During 1997, thirty businesses
were acquired for $171.6 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and 3.0
million shares of common stock. Additional details of acquisitions are
discussed in Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Company
purchases of its common stock totaled $5.7 million in 1997, $10.1 million in
1996, and $24.5 million in 1995. These purchases were made primarily for
employee stock plans, to replace shares issued in purchase acquisitions and to
satisfy contractual obligations. Cash dividends on the Company's common stock
in the last three years totaled $110.2 million.
 
  Future commitments under lease obligations are described in Note F and
contingencies are discussed in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
  The Company has substantial capital resources to support projected internal
cash needs and additional acquisitions consistent with management's goals and
objectives. In addition, the Company has the availability of short-term
uncommitted credit from several banks.
 
 Short-term Liquidity
 
  Working capital has increased $218.5 million in the last three years. To
gain additional flexibility in capital management and to improve the return on
shareholders' equity, the Company continuously seeks efficient use of working
capital. The following table shows the annual turnover on average year-end
working capital, trade receivables and inventories. The ratios may be affected
by the timing of the Company's acquisitions.
 

 
 "Year 2000" Computer Issue
 
  Computer programs used by the Company for financial and operational purposes
are being revised to be "Year 2000" compliant. The "Year 2000" issue refers to
older computer programs that used only two digits to represent the year,
rather than four digits. As a result, these older computer programs may not
process information properly when using the year 2000, since that year will be
indistinguishable from the year 1900. The revisions required to the Company's
computer programs for the "Year 2000" were identified in prior years.
 

 
These revisions are estimated to be over 50% complete as of December 31, 1997.
The Company believes it has sufficient internal resources and commitments from
external providers to have substantially all of its computer programs revised
by the end of 1998. No significant impact to the Company's business operations
is expected from the "Year 2000" issue, and the costs to revise the computer
programs are not material.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The results of operations during the last three years reflect various
elements of the Company's long-term growth strategy, along with general trends
in the domestic economy and the markets the Company serves. The Company's
growth strategy continues to include internal initiatives and acquisitions
which broaden product lines and provide for increased market penetration and
operating efficiencies. With a continuing emphasis on the development of new
and improved products and advancements in production technologies, the Company
is able to consistently offer high quality products, competitively priced.
 
  Trends in the general economy were favorable during the last three years. In
each year, acquisitions accounted for more of the Company's sales growth than
other factors. The balance of the Company's sales growth during this period
primarily reflected increases in unit volumes, as selling price increases were
only a minor factor.
 
  The following table shows various measures of earnings as a percentage of
sales for the last three years. It also shows the effective income tax rate
and the coverage of interest expense by pre-tax earnings plus interest.
 

 
  The Company's gross profit margins improved in the last two years. The
slight increase in 1997 reflected several favorable factors. These included
continued increases in production efficiencies, increased sales of products
with above average margins, and better manufacturing overhead absorption. The
pre-tax profit margin increased due to the factors noted, and a decrease in
interest expense as a percentage of sales. Other factors, including a more
favorable distribution of income among tax jurisdictions, resulted in a lower
effective income tax rate.
 
  In 1996, the gross profit margin reflected similar benefits from production
efficiencies, increased sales of products with above average margins, better
manufacturing overhead absorption, as well as reduced costs for raw materials.
The pre-tax profit margin, before non-recurring costs, increased due to these
favorable factors, but reflected a slight increase in total selling,
distribution and administrative expenses. The 1996 non-recurring costs were
associated with the Pace acquisition and are discussed in Note B of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  The slight increase in the 1995 gross profit margin primarily reflected the
Company's continuing growth in niche markets with above average margins,
increased production efficiencies and cost containment. The increase in the
gross profit margin was offset by slight increases in total selling,
distribution and administrative expenses and interest expense, as a percentage
of sales. Therefore, the pre-tax profit margin was unchanged from the previous
year.
 

 
NEW FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD STATEMENTS
 
  During 1997 and 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
new accounting standards on "Reporting Comprehensive Income" (FASB No. 130),
"Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" (FASB
No. 131) and "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement
Benefits" (FASB No. 132). These new accounting standards will become effective
for 1998 financial reporting. FASB No. 130 will require the Company to report
separately from net income a "comprehensive income" amount which includes
certain foreign currency translation gains and losses currently reflected in
the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders' equity. FASB
No. 131 will require the Company to reconsider and likely change its reported
industry segments in the 1998 annual report to conform to the new
requirements. FASB No. 132 will revise the disclosures about pension and other
postretirement benefit plans. The Company is analyzing these new accounting
standards to determine their impact on its financial reports.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
  This report and other public reports or statements made from time to time by
the Company or its management may contain "forward-looking" statements
concerning possible future events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.
Such statements are identified either by the context in which they appear or
by use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," or the
like.
 
  Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statement reflects only the
beliefs of the Company or its management at the time the statement is made. In
addition, readers should keep in mind that, because all forward-looking
statements deal with the future, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and
developments which might cause actual events or results to differ materially
from those envisioned or reflected in any forward-looking statement. Moreover,
the Company does not have and does not undertake any duty to update any
forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on
which the statement was made. For all of these reasons, forward-looking
statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future events,
objectives, strategies, trends or results.
 
  It is not possible to anticipate and list all of the risks, uncertainties
and developments which may affect the future operations or performance of the
Company, or which otherwise may cause actual events or results to differ from
forward-looking statements. However, some of these risks and uncertainties
include the following: general economic and market conditions and risks, such
as the rate of economic growth, inflation, government regulation, interest
rates, taxation, and the like; risks and uncertainties which could affect
industries or markets in which the Company participates, such as growth rates
and opportunities in those industries, or changes in demand for certain
products, etc.; and factors which could impact costs, including but not
limited to the availability and pricing of raw materials, the availability of
labor and wage rates, and fuel and energy costs.
 

 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY
 
  The table below provides information about the Company's debt obligations
sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has no other significant
financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has
not in the past used any derivative financial instruments to hedge its
exposure to interest rate changes. Substantially all of the debt shown in the
table below is denominated in United States dollars (U.S. $). The fair value
of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its recorded amount.
The fair value of the fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S. Treasury
Bond rate as of December 31, 1997 for similar remaining maturities, plus an
estimated "spread" over such Treasury securities representing the Company's
interest costs under its medium-term note program.
 

- --------
*  The 1998 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as the
   Company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either through
   reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving credit
   agreements.
 
EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY
 
  The Company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to
transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although
such transactions have not been material in the past. The Company does hedge
firm commitments for certain machinery purchases, and occasionally may hedge
amounts due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition program. The
decision by management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-
case basis. The amount of forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 1997
was approximately $1.5 million (pay U.S. $/receive Swiss Francs) and the
highest amount during 1997 was approximately $35 million (pay U.S. $/receive
Swiss Francs).
 
  The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term
commitment and does not hedge any translation exposures. The investment in a
foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The
Company's net investment (excluding goodwill) in foreign subsidiaries subject
to translation exposure at December 31, 1997 is as follows:
 

 

 
COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY
 
  The Company does not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its
exposures to changes in commodity prices. The principal commodity price
exposure is aluminum, of which the Company had an estimated 67 million pounds,
equivalent to $46 million at cost ($49 million fair value based on quoted
market prices for similar metal), in inventory at December 31, 1997. The
Company has purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate
its exposure to aluminum price changes. No other commodity exposures are
significant to the Company.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in
this Report begin on page 14.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Reference is made to the section entitled "Election of Directors" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 13, 1998, said sections being incorporated by
reference, for a description of the directors of the Company.
 
  The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of all
executive officers of the Company. Executive officers are elected annually by
the Board of Directors at the first meeting of directors following the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.
 

 
  Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements listed
as Exhibits to this Report, officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors.
 
 

 
  Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served as the Company's Chief Executive Officer,
Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board's Executive Committee for more
than the last five years.
 
  Felix E. Wright has served as the Company's President and Chief Operating
Officer for more than the last five years.
 
  Bob L. Gaddy joined the Company in May, 1996 with the Company's acquisition
of Pace Industries, Inc. At that time he was elected a Senior Vice President
of the Company. From 1984 to 1993, Mr. Gaddy was President and Chief Operating
Officer of Pace Industries, Inc. and since 1993 has served as Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pace Industries, Inc.
 
  Michael A. Glauber has served as the Company's Senior Vice President,
Finance and Administration for more than the last five years.
 
  David S. Haffner was elected Executive Vice President in 1995. He previously
served as Senior Vice President and President-Furniture and Automotive
Components Group from 1992 to 1995.
 
  Jerry H. Hudkins has served the Company as Vice President and President-Wire
Group for more than the last five years.
 
  Robert A. Jefferies, Jr. has served as the Company's Senior Vice President,
Mergers, Acquisitions and Strategic Planning for more than the last five
years.
 
  Ernest C. Jett was appointed General Counsel in 1997, and was elected Vice
President and Secretary in 1995. He previously served the Company as Assistant
General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal
Department from 1991 to 1997.
 
  Allan J. Ross has served the Company as Vice President, Accounting since
April, 1993. In May, 1996 Mr. Ross was designated by the Board of Directors as
the Company's Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to that time Mr. Ross served in
various accounting management positions with Monsanto Company, a chemical
manufacturing business.
 
  Duane W. Potter was elected Senior Vice President and President-Foam
Components Group in 1995. He previously served as Senior Vice President and
President-Bedding Components Group from 1983 to 1995.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The section entitled "Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 13, 1998, is incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's definitive
Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 13, 1998, is incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The subsection entitled "Related Transactions" of the section entitled
"Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May
13, 1998 is incorporated by reference.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE COVERED BY REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
  The Financial Statements listed below are included in this Report:
 
  . Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years in the three
    year period ended December 31, 1997
 
  . Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1997 and 1996
 
  . Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three
    year period ended December 31, 1997
 
  . Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of
    the years in the three year period ended December 31, 1997
 
  . Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
  . Schedule for each of the years in the three year period ended December
    31, 1997
    Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
 
  All other information schedules have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.
 
  2. EXHIBITS--See Exhibit Index.
 
  3. REPORTS ON FORM 8-K FILED DURING THE LAST QUARTER OF 1997: None.
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
 

 
 
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
 
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
A-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (Leggett & Platt) and its
majority-owned subsidiaries (the Company). All significant intercompany
transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
  Cash Equivalents: Cash equivalents include cash in excess of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with original
maturities of three months or less.
 
  Inventories: All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
includes materials, labor and production overhead. Cost is determined by the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 55% of the inventories at
December 31, 1997 and 1996. The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is
principally used for the remainder. The FIFO cost of inventories at December
31, 1997 and 1996 approximated replacement cost.
 
  Depreciation, Amortization and Asset Impairment: Property, plant and
equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method. The rates of
depreciation range from 6.7% to 25% for machinery and equipment, 2.5% to 6.7%
for buildings and 12.5% to 33% for other items. Accelerated methods are used
for tax purposes. The excess cost of purchased companies over net assets
acquired is amortized by the straight-line method over forty years. Other
intangibles are amortized by the straight-line method over their estimated
lives. Long-lived assets, including intangibles, are evaluated for probable
recovery of their carrying amount. Appropriate adjustment, using current
market prices, estimates of discounted future cash flows and other methods, is
made when recovery of the carrying amount is not reasonably assured.
 
  Computations of Earnings Per Share: The computation of earnings per share
has been restated for all periods in accordance with the requirements of FASB
Statement No. 128, "Earnings per Share".
 
  Concentration of Credit Risks, Exposures and Financial Instruments: The
Company specializes in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing components
and other related products for furnishings and diversified markets. The
Company's operations are principally in the United States, although the
Company also has manufacturing subsidiaries in Canada, Europe, Mexico and
China and marketing and distribution operations in other areas.
 
  The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
conditions and generally requires no collateral from its customers, some of
which are highly leveraged. The Company maintains allowances for potential
credit losses and such losses have generally been within management's
expectations.
 
  From time to time, the Company will enter into forward exchange contracts to
hedge equipment purchases and other transactions in foreign currencies. The
amounts outstanding under the forward contracts at any point in time are not
significant to the Company. The Company has minimal continuing exposures to
other foreign currency transactions and interest rate fluctuations.
 
  The carrying value of cash and short-term financial instruments approximates
fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. The fair value of
long-term debt exceeds the carrying value by approximately $10.
 
  Other Risks: The Company obtains insurance for workers' compensation,
automobile, product and general liability, property loss and medical claims.
However, the Company has elected to retain a significant portion of expected
losses through the use of deductibles. Provisions for losses expected under
these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the
aggregate liability for claims incurred. These estimates utilize the Company's
prior experience and actuarial assumptions that are provided by the Company's
insurance carriers.
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Income Taxes: The Company provides for taxes on undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries where appropriate. The tax effect of most distributions
would be significantly offset by available foreign tax credits.
 
  Stock-Based Compensation: The Company applies the intrinsic value based
method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations in accounting for stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly,
compensation cost for stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's stock at the date of grant over the
amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.
 
  Foreign Currency Translation: The functional currency for most foreign
operations is the local currency. The translation of foreign currencies into
U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet accounts using current exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for income and expense accounts
using monthly average exchange rates. The cumulative effects of translating
the functional currencies into the U.S. dollar are included in shareholders'
equity. Foreign entities whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar are not
significant.
 
  Reclassifications: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior
years' consolidated financial statements to conform to the 1997 presentation.
 
B-ACQUISITIONS
 
  During 1997, the Company acquired the assets of 28 companies in exchange for
$171.6 in cash, net of cash acquired, and 1,090,050 shares of common stock in
transactions accounted for as purchases. The Company also issued 1,868,480
shares to acquire two businesses in transactions accounted for as poolings of
interests. The Company elected not to restate its financial statements as the
effect of these poolings was not material. These acquired businesses
manufacture and distribute products to furnishings and diversified markets.
 
  The unaudited pro forma consolidated net sales for the years ended December
31, 1997 and 1996 as though the 1997 acquisitions had occurred on January 1 of
each year presented were $3,057.9 and $2,798.1, respectively. The unaudited
pro forma consolidated net earnings and earnings per share are not materially
different from the amounts reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
These pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of either results of
operations that would have occurred had the purchases been made on January 1
of each year or of future results of the combined companies.
 
  On May 13, 1996, the Company issued 5,134,092 shares of common stock to
acquire Pace Holdings, Inc. (Pace) in a transaction accounted for as a pooling
of interests. Pace is a leading manufacturer and marketer of non-automotive
aluminum die cast components. Previously issued financial statements were
restated to reflect the pooling.
 
  In connection with a 1993 leveraged buyout transaction, Pace adopted an
employee stock option/bonus plan that provided for the granting of options,
under certain conditions, at an exercise price of $.01 per Pace share. In May
1996, prior to the acquisition, options were granted and exercised under the
plan resulting in compensation expense of $12 before taxes. Other merger
expense, including costs for the accrual of commitments under contracts no
longer benefiting the Company and legal and environmental issues, was $14.6
before taxes in 1996.
 
  Following the acquisition, the Company issued a tender offer to all holders
of the Pace 10.625% senior notes. In June 1996, the notes were redeemed at
approximately 113% of par value, plus accrued interest. The
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
cash required for the redemption was provided through the issuance of medium-
term notes and the Company's revolving credit agreements. The Company
recognized an extraordinary charge, net of related tax benefits, of $12.5 from
the extinguishment of debt.
 
  Also during 1996, the Company acquired the assets of twelve companies in
transactions accounted for as purchases. These transactions required the use
of $89.7 in cash, net of cash acquired, and 2,128,124 shares of common stock
and common stock equivalents. In addition, the Company issued 562,429 shares
to acquire another business in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of
interests. The Company elected not to restate its financial statements as the
effect of this pooling was not material. These acquired businesses manufacture
and distribute products to furnishings and diversified markets.
 
  During 1995, the Company acquired the assets of nine companies that
primarily manufacture and distribute components to the furnishings industry.
These transactions, accounted for as purchases, resulted in the use of $28.6
in cash, net of cash acquired, and 642,441 shares of common stock. The Company
also issued 325,000 shares of common stock to acquire a business in a
transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company elected not
to restate its financial statements as the effect of the pooling was not
material. This company manufactures and distributes formed wire products to
the furnishings industry.
 
  The results of operations of the above acquired companies, except the 1996
Pace pooling, have been included in the consolidated financial statements
since the dates of acquisition.
 
C-EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
  Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:
 

 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
D--ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of the
following:
 

 
E--LONG-TERM DEBT
 
  Long-term debt, weighted average interest rates and due dates at December 31
are as follows:
 

 
  The current revolving credit agreements provide for a maximum line of credit
of $240. For any revolving credit agreement, the Company may elect to pay
interest based on 1) the bank's base lending rate, 2) LIBOR, 3) an adjusted
certificate of deposit rate, or 4) the money market rate, as specified in the
revolving agreements. The agreements will terminate during 2002, at which time
all outstanding balances will become due. Annual facility fees are 1/10 of 1%
of the total credit line, payable on a quarterly basis.
 
  Commercial paper and medium-term notes that mature in the current year are
classified as long-term debt since the Company intends to refinance them on a
long-term basis either through continued issuance or unused credit available
under the revolving credit agreements.
 
  The revolving credit agreements and certain other long-term debt contain
restrictive covenants which, among other restrictions, limit the amount of
additional debt and require net earnings to meet or exceed specified levels of
funded debt.
 
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 1997 are:
 

 
F-LEASE OBLIGATIONS
 
  The Company conducts certain operations in leased premises and also leases
most of its automotive and trucking equipment and some other assets. Terms of
the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary
by lease.
 
  Total rental expense entering into the determination of results of
operations was $27.3, $24.3 and $22.7 for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  Future minimum rental commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating
leases are as follows:
 

 
  The above lease obligations expire at various dates through 2010. Certain
leases contain renewal and/or purchase options. Aggregate rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to
renew the lease.
 
G-CAPITAL STOCK
 
  At December 31, 1997, the Company had 6,852,670 common shares authorized for
issuance under stock option plans. Generally, options become exercisable in
varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant, and
have a maximum term of 5-15 years. Options may be issued with exercise prices
at or below market price. Compensation cost charged against income related to
the Company's stock option grants for each of the years ending December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995 was $6.6, $13.7 and $2.4, respectively. Compensation cost
includes amounts for options granted under the deferred compensation plan for
certain executives, which allows the executive to elect stock options in lieu
of future salary and bonuses. Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-
based compensation plans been determined based on the estimated fair value of
the options at the grant dates, consistent with the method of FASB Statement
No. 123, the Company's net income and earnings per share would not be
significantly reduced. The Company does not anticipate that FASB Statement No.
123's method of determining compensation cost will have a significant impact
in future years.
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995, and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented
below:
 

 

 
  The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1997:
 

 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  The Company has also authorized shares for issuance in connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note H.
 
  In 1993, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's
Restated Articles of Incorporation reducing the par value of Common Stock to
$.01 from $1. The amendment provided that the stated capital of the Company
would not be affected as of the date of the amendment. Accordingly, stated
capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common stock in the
financial statements by approximately $39.
 
  In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock
purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock. The Rights are
attached to and traded with the Company's common stock. The Rights may only
become exercisable under certain circumstances involving actual or potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. Depending upon the circumstances,
if the Rights become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase
shares of Series A junior preferred stock of the Company, shares of the
Company's common stock or shares of common stock of the acquiring entity. The
Rights remain in existence until February 15, 1999, unless they are exercised,
exchanged or redeemed at an earlier date.
 
H--EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
  The Company sponsors contributory and non-contributory defined benefit
retirement plans. Substantially all U.S. employees, other than union employees
covered by multiemployer plans under collective bargaining agreements or non-
union employees participating in isolated defined contribution plans, are
eligible to participate in the Company sponsored benefit plans. Retirement
benefits under the contributory plans are based on career average earnings.
Retirement benefits under the non-contributory plan are based on years of
service, employees' average compensation and social security benefits. It is
the Company's policy to fund actuarially determined costs as accrued.
 
  Information at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 as to the funded status of
Company sponsored defined benefit plans, net pension income from the plans for
the years then ended and weighted average assumptions used in the calculations
are as follows:
 

 
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt and
government securities, including 588,000 shares of the Company's common stock
at December 31, 1997.
 
  Contributions to union sponsored, defined benefit, multiemployer pension
plans were $.2 in 1997, 1996 and 1995. These plans are not administered by the
Company and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of
negotiated labor contracts. As of 1997, the actuarially computed values of
vested benefits for these plans were primarily equal to or less than the net
assets of the plans. Therefore, the Company would have no material withdrawal
liability. However, the Company has no present intention of withdrawing from
any of these plans, nor has the Company been informed that there is any
intention to terminate such plans.
 
  Net pension (expense) income, including Company sponsored defined benefit
plans, multiemployer plans and other plans, was $(.8), $(.4) and $.2 in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  The Company also has a contributory stock purchase/stock bonus plan (SPSB
Plan), a non-qualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an
employees' discount stock plan (DSP). The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax
contributions of 50% of the amount of employee contributions. The ESPP
provides cash payments of 50% of the employees' contributions, along with an
additional payment to assist employees in paying taxes on the cash payments.
To the extent possible, contributions to the ESPP are invested in the
Company's common stock through the DSP. In addition, the Company matches its
contributions when certain profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan
and the ESPP, have been attained. The Company's total contributions to the
SPSB Plan and the ESPP were $5.8, $4.7 and $4.3 for 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
  Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 8,000,000 shares
of Company common stock. The purchase price per share is 85% of the closing
market price on the last business day of each month. Shares purchased under
the DSP were 435,697, 504,605 and 506,613 during 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Purchase prices ranged from $15 to $39 per share. Since
inception of the DSP in 1982, a total of 6,103,149 shares have been purchased
by employees.
 
I--INCOME TAXES
 
  The components of earnings before income taxes and extraordinary item are as
follows:
 

 
  Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:
 

 
  In addition to the above income tax expense, the Company recognized a
current benefit from an extraordinary item of $7.7 in 1996.
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the
financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities. The major temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets or liabilities are as follows:
 

 
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance
sheet are as follows:
 

 
  Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and
extraordinary item, differs from the statutory federal income tax rate as
follows:
 

 
J--SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
  The Company's operations principally consist of manufacturing and marketing
components and related finished products for the furnishings industry. In
addition, the Company supplies a diversified group of industries with products
which are similar in manufacturing technology to its furnishings operations.
Other than furnishings, no industry segment is significant.
 
  Operating profit is determined by deducting from net sales the cost of goods
sold and the selling, distribution, administrative and other expenses
attributable to the segment operations. Operating profit was reduced in the
furnishings segment by $18.8 and the diversified group by $7.8 because of non-
recurring merger costs for the Pace acquisition in 1996. Corporate expenses
not allocated to the segments include corporate general and administrative
expenses, interest expense and certain other income and deduction items which
are incidental to the Company's operations. Capital expenditures, as defined
herein, include property, plant and equipment of acquired businesses as well
as existing operations. The identifiable assets of industry segments are those
used in
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
the Company's operations of each segment. Corporate identifiable assets
include cash, land, buildings and equipment used in conjunction with corporate
activities and sundry assets. Financial information by segment is as follows:
 

 
  The Company's areas of operation outside of the United States principally
include Canada, Europe and Mexico, none of which are significant to
consolidated operations. Prior to 1996, net sales and identifiable assets were
not significant. Information about the Company's operations in different
geographic locations is as follows:
 

 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
K--CONTINGENCIES
 
  The Company is involved in various legal proceedings including matters which
involve claims against the Company under employment, intellectual property,
environmental and other laws. When it appears probable in management's
judgement that the Company will incur monetary damages or other costs in
connection with such claims and proceedings, and the costs can be reasonably
estimated, appropriate liabilities are recorded in the financial statements
and charges are made against earnings. No claim or proceeding has resulted in
a material charge against earnings, nor are the total liabilities recorded
material to the Company's financial position. While the results of any
ultimate resolution cannot be predicted, management believes the possibility
of a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position,
results of operations and cash flows from these claims and proceedings is
remote. The more significant claims and proceedings are briefly described in
the following paragraphs.
 
  One of the Company's subsidiaries is performing an environmental
investigation at a Florida plant site pursuant to a negotiation with local and
Federal environmental authorities. The costs of the investigation and any
remediation actions will be shared equally by the Company and a former joint
owner of the plant site.
 
  In connection with an acquisition, one of the Company's subsidiaries is
involved in an unfair labor complaint filed by the National Labor Relations
Board. An administrative decision has been rendered against the subsidiary,
which was recently upheld by the appellate court. The Company is currently
pursuing additional legal and other actions to resolve this matter.
 

 
                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 14 on page 13 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997 in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
 
/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP
 
St. Louis, Missouri
February 4, 1998
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                         QUARTERLY SUMMARY OF EARNINGS
 
                                  (UNAUDITED)
              (DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
  Merger related costs of $26.6 pre-tax and $16.4 after-tax, or $.18 per basic
and diluted share are included in 1996 second quarter net earnings before
extraordinary item.
 

 
                 LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
          SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                             (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS)
 

- --------
(A) Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recoveries.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Leggett & Platt, Incorporated
 
                                                /s/ Harry M. Cornell, Jr.
                                          By:__________________________________
                                                   Harry M. Cornell, Jr.
                                              Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                                     Executive Officer
 
Dated: March 30, 1998
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 

 
  Felix E. Wright
 
 
     /s/ Ernest C. Jett                                           March 30, 1998
*By ___________________________
          Ernest C. Jett
   Attorney-in-Fact pursuant to
             Power of
   Attorney dated March 11, 1998
 
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

- --------
(1) Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

