
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(Mark One)
 
  [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
 
                                      OR
 
  [_]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                      For the Transition period from  to
 
                         Commission File Number 1-7845
 
                         LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
               Missouri                              44-0324630
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. employer identification no.)
    incorporation or organization)
 
          No. 1 Leggett Road                            64836
          Carthage, Missouri                         (Zip code)
    (Address of principal executive
               offices)
 
      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (417) 358-8131
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No [_]
 
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $3,989,690,000 on March 10, 1999.
 
   There were 197,803,977 shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding
as of March 10, 1999.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
   Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 12, 1999, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this report.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I


Item 1.    Business.


     The Company is a manufacturer of a wide range of engineered products.  It
was incorporated in 1901 as the successor to a partnership formed in 1883 at
Carthage, Missouri.  That partnership was a pioneer in the development of steel
coil bedsprings.  The Company today serves markets for:


   . Residential Furnishings - components for bedding, furniture and other
     residential furnishings and related consumer products.
    
   . Commercial Furnishings - office and institutional furnishings components,
     retail store fixtures, displays and other commercial furnishings products
     and systems.
    
   . Aluminum Products - die castings, custom tooling and dies, machining,
     coating and other value added processes and aluminum raw materials.
    
   . Industrial Materials - drawn wire, specialty wire products and welded steel
      tubing.
    
   . Specialized Products - automotive seating suspension, lumbar support and
     control cable systems, specialized machinery and manufacturing equipment.


     The term "Company," unless the context requires otherwise, refers to
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and its majority owned subsidiaries.

     General Development of Business.  In 1998 the Company acquired seventeen
businesses with aggregate annualized sales of approximately $300 million.  Three
additional businesses were acquired in the first two months of 1999.  Eight
businesses producing residential furnishings were acquired by the Company in
1998 and the first two months of 1999  with annualized sales of approximately
$140 million.  Over the same period, the Company acquired five companies
producing commercial furnishings which also have annualized sales of
approximately $140 million.  During this same period, three businesses were
acquired producing aluminum products with annualized sales of approximately $35
million, one business producing industrial materials was acquired with
approximately $25 million in annualized sales and three businesses producing
specialized products were acquired with annualized sales of approximately $30
million.

     Reference is also made to Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information about the Company's acquisitions.

     Residential Furnishings. The Company's residential furnishings products
include a broad line of components used by manufacturers to make finished
bedding and residential furniture products.  Examples of residential furnishings
components manufactured by the Company include (i) innerspring and boxspring
units for mattresses and boxsprings; (ii) foam, textile, fiber, 


 
non-woven fabrics and other cushioning materials for bedding, furniture and
industrial applications; (iii) springs and seating suspensions for chairs, sofas
and other residential furniture; (iv) steel mechanisms and hardware for
reclining chairs, sleeper sofas and other types of motion furniture; and (v)
other furniture supplies.

     The Company also manufactures or distributes finished residential
furnishings.  These finished products include bed frames; daybeds; bunk beds;
headboards; adjustable electric beds; fashion beds, carpet underlay and non-slip
products.

     Most of the Company's customers for residential furnishings manufacture
finished bedding (mattresses and boxsprings) or upholstered and non-upholstered
furniture for residential use.  Finished residential furnishings are sold to
bedding and furniture manufacturers for resale or directly to retailers.

     The Company's diverse range of components gives its residential furnishings
manufacturer-customers access to a single source for most of their component
needs.  For example, a manufacturer of bedding can come to the Company for
almost every component part of a mattress and boxspring, except the upholstering
material.  This same principle holds true for manufacturers of other residential
furnishings such as upholstered recliner chairs, sofas and loveseats.  Because
the Company has the advantage of long production runs and numerous production
and assembly locations, it can generally produce component products more
efficiently than its customers.  Therefore, components customers can focus on
the design, style and marketing of their various residential furnishings
products, rather than the production of components.

          Commercial Furnishings. The Company manufactures a number of
commercial furnishings products, including both finished products and
components.

     Finished commercial furnishings include point of purchase displays, store
fixtures and shelving, racking, counters and carts used to store and handle
materials.   Point of purchase displays and store fixtures, made of wood, metal,
wire and plastics, are used by customers including a wide variety of branded
product manufacturers, distributors and retailers to display merchandise.  The
Company has the ability to provide custom designed full store fixture packages
as well as more generic shelving used by large retailers, grocery stores,
discount chains and the like.  Commercial storage products provide for the
efficient storage, organization and handling of materials used in food handling,
health care and other applications.  Customers for these products include
restaurants, hospitals, and other businesses which have storage and handling
needs.

     Commercial furnishings components include chair controls (devices which 
allow office chairs to be adjusted as to height, tilt and swivel), chair bases,
columns, backrests, casters and other components used by customers which
manufacture office, institutional and other commercial furnishings.

          Aluminum Products.  The Company is engaged in die casting component
parts used by a number of different industries.  The die castings are primarily
aluminum.  Some zinc die castings are also produced.


 
          The Company's die casting products are sold in a diverse group of
industrial and consumer markets.  Examples of significant aluminum product types
include components of outdoor gas barbecue grills; outdoor lighting fixtures;
cable and telecommunication products, covers, housings and other items used by
computer and electronics manufacturers; end shields and other components used in
the construction of electric motors; various components of consumer appliances
such as waffle grids and blender bases; components of power tools; clean room
flooring tiles; and parts for motorcycles, snowmobiles, ATVs, trucks and
automobiles.  The Company's larger customers for aluminum products include those
manufacturing gas barbecue grills, electric motors, outdoor lights, cable line
amplifiers, wireless communication systems, electronic devices, automobiles,
motorcycles, trucks and outdoor furnishings products.  The business of the
Company's gas barbecue grill customers is somewhat seasonal with the bulk of
shipments to these customers normally occurring during the first two quarters of
the year.

          The Company also manufactures and refurbishes dies (also known as
molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines.  These dies are
sold to the Company's customers for die castings and others.

          In addition, the Company operates two smelting locations where
aluminum ingot and other forms of raw aluminum are produced from aluminum scrap.
This aluminum is used by the Company's die casting operations and sold to
unaffiliated customers.
 
          Industrial Materials.  The Company produces drawn steel wire and steel
tubing as well as certain finished wire products.  Drawn wire and tubing are
important raw materials used widely in manufacturing the Company's products.
Wire is used to make innersprings and box springs for the Company's bedding
customers, different types of springs and seating constructions used by the
Company's residential furniture manufacturer-customers, finished commercial
furnishings products such as racks and displays and automotive products.

          Steel tubing is used in many of the Company's products including
motion furniture mechanisms, displays, shelving and storage products, and
finished residential furnishings.

          In addition to supplying the Company's needs for these materials, the
Company sells drawn wire and tubing products to a diverse group of industrial
customers such as manufacturers of automobiles, yard and garden equipment,
recreational equipment, construction related products, mechanical springs and
other formed wire consumer products.

          Finished wire products using wire drawn by the Company include wire
ties used to secure cotton bales and baling wire used to bale waste materials.
Customers for these products include cotton gins, textile companies, recyclers
and waste removal concerns.  The Company also manufactures and sells tying heads
of various types which tie wire used to secure baled material in various
applications.

          Specialized Products.  Two smaller business units are engaged in
manufacturing products for the automotive industry and manufacturing machinery
used primarily by bedding manufacturers.  In the automotive area the Company
manufactures seating suspension, lumbar support and control cable systems.  In
the machinery area the Company manufactures machinery 


 
that quilts fabrics used to cover mattresses and other furniture, coilers used
to fabricate springs of various types, sewing machines specifically designed for
the assembly of bedding, material handling systems and other related products.
Subcontractors to automobile manufacturers as well as the manufacturers
themselves are the primary customers for the Company's automotive products.
Manufacturers of bedding are the primary customers for the Company's machinery.

     The Company's products are sold and distributed primarily through its own
sales personnel.

     Reference is made to Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning sales of each of the Company's
business segments.


     Foreign Operations.  Foreign sales are a small portion of the Company's
business.  However, foreign sales are growing and the Company is cautiously
proceeding to expand in foreign locations where opportunities present
themselves.

     The Company has several operations in Canada producing primarily components
used by manufacturers of residential bedding and furniture as well as commercial
furnishings.  The Company's international operations outside Canada are
primarily located in Europe and Mexico and involve (i) the sale of machinery and
equipment designed to manufacture the Company's innersprings, certain other
spring products and bedding and other products manufactured by the Company's
customers, (ii) the licensing of patents owned and presently maintained by the
Company in foreign countries, (iii) aluminum die casting, and (iv) the
production of seating components, wire innersprings and boxspring units.
 
     Reference is made to Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information concerning the Company's operations outside
of the United States.

     Raw Materials.    The Company uses a variety of raw materials in
manufacturing its products.  Some of the Company's most important raw materials
include steel rod from which steel wire is drawn, woven and nonwoven fabrics,
aluminum ingot, aluminum scrap, angle iron, coil and sheet steel, dimension
lumber, textile scrap, foam chemicals, foam scrap, and plastic.  Substantially
all of the Company's requirements for steel wire, an important material in many
of the Company's products are supplied by Company-owned wire drawing mills.
Examples of products produced using steel wire include residential furnishings
such as innersprings and box springs, commercial furnishings such as displays,
shelving and racks and automotive seating systems.   The Company also produces,
at various locations, for its own consumption and for sale to customers not
affiliated with the Company slit coil steel, welded steel tubing, textile
fibers, dimension lumber and aluminum ingot from scrap aluminum.  Numerous
supply sources for the raw materials used by the Company are available.  The
Company did not experience any significant shortages of raw materials during the
past year.

     Patents and Trademarks.  The Company holds numerous patents concerning its
various product lines.  No single patent or group of patents is material to the
Company's business as a whole.  Examples of the Company's more significant
trademarks include SEMI-FLEX(TM), LOK-Fast(TM) and DYNA-Lock(TM) (boxspring
components and foundations); Mira-Coil(R) and Lura-


 
Flex(TM) (mattress innersprings); Nova-Bond(R) and Flexnet(TM) (insulators for
mattresses); ADJUSTA-MAGIC (adjustable electric beds); Wallhugger(R) and Hi-
Style(TM) (recliner chairs); SUPER SAGLESS(R) (motion and sofa sleeper
mechanisms) and No-Sag(R) (sinuous wire).

     Research and Development.  The Company maintains research, engineering and
testing centers at Carthage, Missouri, and also does research and development
work at several of its other facilities.  The Company is unable to precisely
calculate the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in
product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other
areas.  However, the Company believes the cost of research and development was
approximately $12 million in 1998, $10 million in 1997 and $9 million in 1996.

     Employees.  The Company has approximately 27,000 employees of whom
approximately 21,000 are engaged in production.  Approximately 28% of the
Company's production employees are represented by labor unions.  The Company did
not experience any material work stoppage related to the negotiation of
contracts with labor unions during 1998.  Management is not aware of any
circumstances which are likely to result in a material work stoppage related to
the negotiations of any contracts expiring during 1999.

     One of the Company's subsidiaries is involved in an unfair labor complaint
filed by the National Labor Relations Board prior to the Company's acquisition
of the subsidiary.  An administrative decision has been rendered against the
subsidiary, which has been upheld by the courts.  The Company is currently
pursuing actions to resolve this matter.

     Competition.  There are many companies offering products which compete with
those manufactured and sold by the Company.  The markets for the Company's
products are highly competitive in all aspects.  Given the diverse range of
components and other products produced by the Company, the number of the
companies competing with respect to any class or type of  product varies over
the Company's product range.  There are also a number of maker-users (vertically
integrated manufacturers) of many of the products the Company manufactures.  The
primary competitive factors in the Company's business include price, product
quality and customer service.

     To the best of the Company's knowledge, it is the largest supplier in the
United States of a diverse range of components to the residential furnishings
industry.

     Backlog.  The Company's relationship with its customers and its
manufacturing and inventory practices do not provide for the traditional backlog
associated with some manufacturing entities and no backlog data is regularly
prepared or used by management.

     Government Regulation.  The Company's various operations are subject to
federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the
environment, worker safety, and other matters.  Environmental regulations
include those relating to air and water emissions, underground storage tanks,
waste handling, and the like.  While the Company cannot forecast policies that
may be adopted by various regulatory agencies, management believes that
compliance with these various laws and regulations will not have a material
adverse effect on the 


 
consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 

Item 2.   Properties.

     The Company's most important physical properties are its manufacturing
plants. Facilities manufacturing, assembling or distributing residential
furnishings products are located in approximately thirty states as well as
Canada, Europe, Asia and Mexico. Commercial furnishings manufacturing plants and
distribution facilities are located in California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia,
Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, North Carolina, Ontario, Texas, Wisconsin
and the United Kingdom. Fifteen die casting facilities are located in Arkansas,
California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Tennessee,
Washington, Wisconsin and Mexico, three die and tooling production facilities in
Alabama, Minnesota and Missouri and two smelting operations in Alabama.
Industrial Materials are produced at six wire drawing mills and three welded
steel tubing mills. Automotive products and machinery are produced in facilities
in the United States and Europe.

     Most of the Company's major manufacturing plants are owned by the Company.
The Company also conducts certain operations in leased premises.  Terms of the
leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease.   For additional information regarding lease obligations, reference is
made to Note G of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Properties of the Company include facilities which, in the opinion of
management, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of its products.  These properties are located to allow quick and
efficient deliveries and necessary service to the Company's diverse customer
base.


Item 3.   Legal  Proceedings.

     The Company is a defendant in various workers' compensation, product
liability, vehicle accident, employment, intellectual property, labor practices
and other claims and legal proceedings, the resolution of which management
believes will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
condition or results of operations of the Company in the ordinary course of
business.

     The Company is party to a small number of proceedings in which a
governmental authority is a party and which involve laws regulating the
discharge of materials into the environment.  These proceedings deal primarily
with waste disposal site remediation.  Management believes that potential
monetary sanctions, if imposed in any or all of these proceedings, or any
capital expenditures or operating expenses attributable to these proceedings,
will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.


 
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     Not Applicable.



                                    PART II
                                        


Item 5.   Market For the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder 
          Matters.


STOCK MARKET AND OWNERSHIP DATA

     The Company's common stock is listed on the New York and Pacific stock
exchanges with the trading symbol LEG.  The table below highlights quarterly and
annual stock market information for the last two years.


____________________

Price and volume data reflect composite transactions and prices as reported
daily by The Wall Street Journal.

     Restatements have been made to reflect a two-for-one stock split 
distributed on June 15, 1998.

     The Company had 14,879 shareholders of record on March 10, 1999.

     During the fourth quarter of 1998 the Company issued no shares of its
common stock in transactions which qualified for exemption from registration
under the Securities Act by virtue of Regulation D and Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act.


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.


 
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                                        
Selected Financial Data
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries



(Unaudited)
(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)



Merger related costs of $16.4 after-tax, or $.09 per basic and diluted share are
included in 1996 earnings from continuing operations. Previously reported per
share data have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split distributed
on June 15, 1998.

Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.

Previously reported share and per share amounts have been restated for a
June 15, 1998 two-for-one stock split.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

     The Company's financial position reflects management's capital policy
guidelines. These guidelines are intended to ensure that corporate liquidity is
adequate to support the Company's projected growth rate. Also, liquidity is
necessary so that financing of the Company's ongoing operations will be adequate
in periods of economic adversity. In a normal operating environment, management
intends to direct capital to strategic acquisitions and other investments that
provide opportunities for expansion and enhanced profitability.

     The expansion of capital resources -- debt and equity -- is planned to
allow the Company to take advantage of favorable capital market conditions,
rather than respond to short-term needs. Such financial flexibility is
considered more important than short-term maximization of earnings per share
through excessive leverage. Therefore, management continuously provides for
available credit in excess of near-term projected cash needs and has maintained
a guideline for long-term debt as a percentage of total capitalization in a
range of 30% to 40%.

Total Capitalization

     The following table shows the Company's total capitalization at the end of
the three most recent years. Also, the table shows the amount of unused
committed credit available through the Company's revolving bank credit
agreements and the amount of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the three
most recent years.


     Cash provided by operating activities was $354.9 million, $288.3 million
and $238.1 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, or a three year total
of $881.3 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities
principally reflects earnings improvements.

     Long-term debt outstanding was 26.9% of total capitalization at the end of
1998 and 1997 and 27.4% at the end of 1996. As shown in the table above,
obligations having scheduled maturities are the base "layer" of the Company's
debt capital. At the end of 1998, these obligations consisted primarily of the
Company's privately placed medium-term notes and tax-exempt industrial
development bonds. In the first and second quarters of 1998, the Company issued
a total of $176 million in medium-term notes. Proceeds from the notes were used
to repay commercial paper outstanding and to provide financing for future growth
at favorable rates. A portion of the financing for future growth is temporarily
held in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 1998. In the second quarter of
1998, the Company's senior debt rating was upgraded to single A+ from single A
by Standard & Poor's.

     In the second quarter of 1997, the Company issued $100 million of medium-
term notes to repay commercial paper outstanding. In June 1996, the Company also
issued $100 million in medium-term notes. Proceeds from these notes provided a
majority of the funds required to redeem, at 113% of par value, all of the Pace
Holdings, Inc. (Pace) publicly owned senior notes that were to mature in almost
seven years and had fixed interest rates of 10.625%. Funds required to refinance
the balance of the senior notes and Pace's revolving credit initially were
provided through the Company's revolving credit/commercial paper arrangements.
In August 1996, the Company issued $25 million in medium-term notes to repay a
portion of revolving credit/commercial paper outstanding.

     The second "layer" of the Company's debt capital consists of revolving bank
credit agreements and commercial paper issuances. Management has negotiated bank
credit agreements and established commercial paper programs to continuously
support the Company's projected growth and to maintain highly flexible sources
of debt capital. The credit under these arrangements has been a long-term
obligation. If needed, however, the credit is available for short-term
borrowings and repayments. At the end of 1998, the Company had no revolving
credit or commercial paper outstanding. Additional details of long-term debt,
including scheduled maturities, revolving credit and commercial paper are
discussed in Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Uses of Capital Resources

     The Company's internal investments to modernize and expand manufacturing
capacity totaled $363.2 million in the last three years. In 1999, management
anticipates internal investments will approximate $155 million. During the last
three years, the Company employed $378.4 million in cash (net of cash acquired)
and issued 24.5 million shares of common stock in acquisitions, including 10.3
million shares in 1996 to acquire Pace. During 1998, seventeen businesses were
acquired for $117.1 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and 2.9 million
shares of common stock. About one-half of the 1998 acquisition investments (cash
and stock) were made in the Commercial Furnishings segment. Additional details
of acquisitions are discussed in Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Additions, by segment, to property, plant and equipment and
purchases of long-lived assets are shown in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     Company purchases of its common stock totaled $13.5 million in 1998, $5.7
million in 1997, and $10.1 million in 1996. These purchases were made primarily
for employee stock plans, to replace shares issued in purchase acquisitions and
to satisfy contractual obligations. In 1998, the Company's Board of Directors
authorized management, at its discretion, to buy up to 500,000 shares of Leggett
stock for use in employee benefit plans. The authorization is continuously
replenished as shares acquired are reissued for these benefit plans. In
addition, management is authorized, again at its discretion, to repurchase any
shares issued in acquisitions accounted for as purchases.

     Cash dividends on the Company's common stock in the last three years
totaled $138.2 million.

     Future commitments under lease obligations are described in Note G and
contingencies are discussed in Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Short-term Liquidity

     Working capital increased $324.2 million in the last three years. To gain
additional flexibility in capital management and to improve the return on
shareholders' equity, the Company continuously seeks efficient use of working
capital. The following table shows the annual turnover on average year-end
working capital, trade receivables and inventories. The ratios may be affected
by the timing of the Company's acquisitions. 



     No segment's working capital requirements vary significantly from the
consolidated ratios, except Aluminum Products. Aluminum Products' receivables
turnover is lower than the other segments due principally to the seasonal nature
of its gas barbecue grill business.

Results of Operations

Discussion of Consolidated Results

     The results of operations during the last three years reflect various
elements of the Company's long-term growth strategy, along with general economic
trends and the specific market conditions. The Company's growth strategy
continues to include internal initiatives and acquisitions which broaden product
lines and provide for increased market penetration and operating efficiencies.
With a continuing emphasis on the development of new and improved products and
advancements in production technologies, the Company is able to consistently
offer high quality products, competitively priced.

     Trends in the general economy were very favorable during the last three
years. In each year, acquisitions accounted for more of the Company's sales
growth than other factors. The balance of the Company's sales growth during this
period primarily reflected increases in unit volumes. Aluminum prices decreased
in 1998 and during the latter part of 1998, certain product lines in Residential
Furnishings and Industrial Materials were experiencing selling price declines.
Residential Furnishings accounted for 39.7% of the 1998 increase in consolidated
sales, and Commercial Furnishings accounted for 34.4% of the 1998 increase. In
1997, Residential Furnishings accounted for 42.7% of the consolidated sales
increase over 1996 and Commercial Furnishings accounted for 26.3% of the
increase.

     The following table shows various measures of earnings as a percentage of
sales for the last three years. It also shows the effective income tax rate and
the coverage of interest expense by pre-tax earnings plus interest.



     
     The Company's gross profit margins improved in each of the last two years.
The increase in 1998 reflected several favorable factors. These included
continued increases in production efficiencies, increased sales of products with
above average margins, lower material and other costs and better manufacturing
overhead absorption. The EBIT margin also increased due to these factors, offset
somewhat by higher selling costs in acquired companies as a percentage of sales.
The slight increase in the 1997 gross profit and EBIT margins versus 1996,
primarily reflected the Company's continuing sales growth in products with above
average margins, increased production efficiencies and better manufacturing
overhead absorption. The segment results discussion below identifies specific
reasons by segment for changes in margins. Other factors, including a more
favorable distribution of income, resulted in a lower effective income tax rate
in 1997 compared to the prior year, improving net profit margin.

     In 1996, non-recurring costs were associated with the Pace acquisition
(Aluminum Products segment) and are discussed in Note C of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Discussion of Segment Results

     A description of the products included in each segment, segment sales,
segment earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and other segment data appear
in Note K of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Following is a
comparison of EBIT margins (Segment EBIT divided by Total Segment Sales):



     Residential Furnishings sales increased 11.6% in 1998, principally from
acquisitions, although volume growth was also a significant factor. EBIT
increased 15.6% in 1998 versus 1997, and EBIT margin increased slightly as
higher volume improved operating efficiencies and raw material costs were lower.
For 1997, Residential Furnishings sales were up 13.3% due primarily to
acquisitions. EBIT improved in 1997 by 11.6%, while EBIT margin declined
slightly. Integration of certain bedding components' acquisitions had a negative
impact on 1997 EBIT margin.

     Commercial Furnishings sales in 1998 increased 34.5% over the prior year
due primarily to acquisition activity. EBIT improved 30.2% in 1998, but EBIT
margin declined due to product mix and the fact that the Company has not yet
fully realized the integration benefits of the substantial acquisition activity
in this segment. In 1997, Commercial Furnishings sales improved 33.4%,
principally from significant acquisition activity. EBIT in 1997 was 30.6% higher
than 1996, but EBIT margin declined somewhat. Product mix, integration issues
related to new acquisitions and lower results in certain store display and
fixture markets impacted EBIT margin.
    
     In 1998, Aluminum Products sales increased 13.5%, principally from
acquisitions. A major die casting customer's restructuring and inventory
reduction, and reduced production in smelting facilities due to lower prices of
aluminum and availability of aluminum scrap, lowered the sales improvement.
Segment EBIT declined 26.9% and EBIT margin was reduced as the impact of
acquisitions was more than offset by the die cast customer and smelting
production issues referred to above, and production inefficiences in certain die
cast facilities. Aluminum Products sales in 1997 improved 27.6% over 1996, as a
result of acquisitions and increased volume. EBIT improved 47.7% and EBIT margin
increased in 1997, reflecting the acquisitions, improved volume and production
efficiencies.

     In 1998, Industrial Materials sales were 1.1% higher than 1997, reflecting
acquisition-related sales and improved steel tubing volume. These factors were
substantially offset by selling price declines on drawn wire and lower specialty
wire product sales in the cotton industry. EBIT improved 19.3% in 1998 and EBIT
margin was better principally reflecting lower raw material prices and improved
operating efficiencies, partially offset by selling price declines. Industrial
Materials sales in 1997 increased 9.5% over 1996 due primarily to volume
improvement. EBIT improved 13.6% in 1997, and EBIT margins were somewhat higher
as the increased volume resulted in production efficiencies and better overhead
absorption.

     Specialized Products sales increased 39.5% in 1998 due primarily to
acquisitions. EBIT improved 42.6%, reflecting acquisition growth and higher
machinery sales. EBIT margin was up slightly from improved efficiencies in both
automotive and machinery operations. In 1997, Specialized Products sales
increased 23.5% reflecting acquisitions. EBIT grew 64.5% in 1997 versus 1996
reflecting the acquisitions and improved automotive operations. Also, EBIT
margin was higher in 1997 due to improved automotive operations, particularly in
Europe.

New Financial Accounting Standards Board Statements

     During 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new
accounting standard on "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" (FASB No. 133). This new accounting standard will become effective
for 2000 financial reporting. FASB No. 133 is not expected to have a major
effect on the Company's financial statements since the Company has not engaged
in significant hedging or other activities involving derivative instruments in
the past and has no current plans to use such instruments extensively in the
future.

Year 2000 Readiness Disclosure

     The "Year 2000" issue refers to older computer programs that used only two
digits to represent the year, rather than four digits. As a result, these older
computer programs may not process information or otherwise function properly
when using the year "2000", since that year will be indistinguishable from the
year "1900". These computer programs are found in information processing
applications and in timing devices for certain machinery and equipment.

     To monitor Year 2000 issues, the Company implemented a Corporate level Year
2000 Steering Committee (the Steering Committee). The Steering Committee meets
regularly to review the Company's progress, and to consider other actions that
may be necessary for Year 2000 issues.

     In addition, the Company has engaged a large, reputable consulting firm to
perform certain procedures to review the Company's planning, implementation and
readiness for the Year 2000 issues at certain major locations. The results of
the consulting firm's preliminary and follow-up studies have been reviewed with
the Company's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company has
responded, or is in the process of responding, to issues raised by the
consulting firm's studies.

     The Company recognized the Year 2000 issue several years ago, and has been
working since to correct this problem in its computer systems. The majority of
the Company's information processing is centralized at its Corporate Offices.
All of these critical central systems have been converted to Year 2000 compliant
software, and individual system testing is substantially complete.

     Many of the Company's international and certain domestic operations do not
use some or any of the Corporate Offices' centralized systems. All of these non-
central system locations have active projects underway to convert their systems
to Year 2000 compliant software by no later than the Third Quarter 1999. Also,
adequate testing of these non-central system conversions is expected to be
completed by that date.

     In total, combining both central system and non-central system locations,
management estimates that the Year 2000 systems conversion effort is over 80%
complete as of December 31, 1998.

     All locations of the Company have been instructed to review their
facilities for Year 2000 issues. Potential internal and third-party risks were
identified for the operating locations to consider. Inventories of computer
equipment, communications with key suppliers, correspondence with customers,
obtaining machinery and equipment compliance certificates and other facility
testing related to Year 2000 issues are in various stages of completion at the
Company's approximately 300 locations around the world. These efforts are
expected to be complete at all significant locations prior to the year 2000.

     Since the Company has been working on Year 2000 issues for several years,
the costs of mitigating these issues, which costs have not been material in the
past, were expensed in ongoing operations. No material costs are expected from
the remaining Year 2000 compliance efforts. Costs of all the Company's system
conversion and implementation efforts, which include those efforts related to
the Year 2000 issue, were less than $6 million in 1998. It is not practical to
segregate past or anticipated capital expenditures between Year 2000 compliance
and expenditures which occur normally to keep operations technologically
competitive. However, management believes that past or expected future capital
requirements related to Year 2000 compliance issues are not significant to its
operations.

     The Company manufactures a broad line of products in over 150 major
manufacturing sites around the world. Raw materials and critical outside
services are generally available from numerous supply sources including, in some
cases, the Company's own vertically integrated operations. The Company's
revenues are not dependent upon any single customer or any few customers.
Therefore, the impact to the Company of any individual operating location or
third-party risk involving Year 2000 is relatively small. It is reasonable to
assume that the Company will experience a few, hopefully isolated, disturbances
to its operations early in the year 2000. While reasonable actions have been
taken, and will continue to be taken in the future, to mitigate such disruption,
the magnitude of all Year 2000 disturbances cannot be predicted. In addition,
any widespread Year 2000 failures, particularly in North America, in industries
such as financial services, communications, transportation and electrical or
other utilities could significantly and adversely impact the Company's
operations.

     Efforts to date have been concentrated on mitigating Year 2000
disturbances. The Steering Committee plans in 1999 to discuss and evaluate the
reasonable potential risks, and determine the extent of contingency planning and
resources that are appropriate. Any such contingency actions and resources would
be planned to be in place in sufficient time for the year 2000.

Forward-Looking Statements

     This report and other public reports or statements made from time to time
by the Company or its management may contain "forward-looking" statements
concerning possible future events, objectives, strategies, trends or results.
Such statements are identified either by the context in which they appear or by
use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," or the like.

     Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statement reflects only the
beliefs of the Company or its management at the time the statement is made. In
addition, readers should keep in mind that, because all forward-looking
statements deal with the future, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and
developments which might cause actual events or results to differ materially
from those envisioned or reflected in any forward-looking statement. Moreover,
the Company does not have and does not undertake any duty to update any forward-
looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the
statement was made. For all of these reasons, forward-looking statements should
not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future events, objectives,
strategies, trends or results.

     It is not possible to anticipate and list all of the risks, uncertainties
and developments which may affect the future operations or performance of the
Company, or which otherwise may cause actual events or results to differ from
forward-looking statements. However, some of these risks and uncertainties
include the following: general economic and market conditions and risks, such as
the rate of economic growth in the United States, inflation, government
regulation, interest rates, taxation, and the like; risks and uncertainties
which could affect industries or markets in which the Company participates, such
as growth rates and opportunities in those industries, or changes in demand for
certain products, etc.; and factors which could impact costs, including but not
limited to the availability and pricing of raw materials, the availability of
labor and wage rates, and fuel and energy costs. As indicated above, the
consequences of the Year 2000 issues cannot be accurately predicted; therefore,
actual consequences will remain at least to some extent uncertain.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Disclosures About Market Risk
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

(Unaudited)
(Dollar amounts in millions)

Interest Rate

     The table below provides information about the Company's debt obligations
sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has no other significant
financial instruments sensitive to changes in interest rates. The Company has
not in the past used any derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure
to interest rate changes. Substantially all of the debt shown in the table below
is denominated in United States dollars (U.S. $). The fair value of fixed rate
debt exceeded its carrying value by $23 and $10 at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The fair value of fixed rate debt was calculated using the U.S.
Treasury Bond rate as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 for similar remaining
maturities, plus an estimated "spread" over such Treasury securities
representing the Company's interest costs under its medium-term note program.
The fair value of variable rate debt is not significantly different from its
recorded amount.


      *  The 1999 scheduled maturity is not included in current maturities, as
         the Company intends to refinance this note on a long-term basis either
         through reissuance or unused credit available under its revolving
         credit agreements.


Exchange Rate

     The Company has not typically hedged foreign currency exposures related to
transactions denominated in other than its functional currencies, although such
transactions have not been material in the past. The Company does hedge firm
commitments for certain machinery purchases, and occasionally may hedge amounts
due in foreign currencies related to its acquisition program. The decision by
management to hedge any such transactions is made on a case-by-case basis. The
amount of forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 1998 was approximately
$3 (pay U.S. $/receive Canadian Dollars) and the highest amount during 1998 was
approximately $4.5 ($3 pay U.S. $/receive Canadian Dollars and $1.5 pay U.S.
$/receive Swiss Francs).

     The Company views its investment in foreign subsidiaries as a long-term
commitment and does not hedge any translation exposures. The investment in a
foreign subsidiary may take the form of either permanent capital or notes. The
Company's net investment (excluding goodwill) in foreign subsidiaries subject to
translation exposure at December 31 is as follows:

Commodity Price

     The Company does not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its
exposures to changes in commodity prices. The principal commodity price exposure
is aluminum, of which the Company had an estimated $48 and $46 (at cost) in
inventory at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company has
purchasing procedures and arrangements with customers to mitigate its exposure
to aluminum price changes. No other commodity exposures are significant to the
Company.

Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data.

     The Consolidated Financial Statements and supplementary data included in
this Report are listed in Item 14 and begin immediately after Item 14.

Item  9.  Changes  In  And  Disagreements  With  Accountants On  Accounting  And
          Financial  Disclosure.

     Not applicable.

                                   PART  III

Item 10.  Directors  And  Executive  Officers  Of  The  Registrant.

     Reference is made to the section entitled "Election of Directors" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 12, 1999, said sections being incorporated by
reference, for a description of the directors of the Company.

     The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of all
executive officers of the Company.  Executive officers are normally elected
annually by the Board of Directors at the Meeting of Shareholders.

 


 
 

     Subject to the employment agreements and severance benefit agreements
listed as Exhibits to this Report, officers serve at the pleasure of the Board
of Directors.

     Harry M. Cornell, Jr. has served as the Company's Chief Executive Officer,
Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board's Executive Committee for more
than the last five years.

     Felix E. Wright has served as the Company's President and Chief Operating
Officer for more than the last five years.

     David S. Haffner was elected Executive Vice President in 1995.  He
previously served as Senior Vice President and President-Furniture and
Automotive Components Group from 1992 to 1995.

     Bob L. Gaddy joined the Company in May, 1996 with the Company's acquisition
of Pace Industries, Inc.  At that time he was elected a Senior Vice President of
the Company.  From 1984 to 1993, Mr. Gaddy was President and Chief Operating
Officer of Pace Industries, Inc. and since 1993 has served as Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pace Industries, Inc. Mr. Gaddy 
presently serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of all the Company's
aluminum products operations.

     Karl G. Glassman has been employed by the Company for more than the last
five years, became Vice President and President - Bedding Components in 1995 and
became a Senior Vice President - President Residential Furnishings in 1999.

     Michael A. Glauber has served as the Company's Senior Vice President,
Finance and Administration for more than the last five years.


 
     Robert G. Griffin has been employed by the Company for more than the last
five years, was named Vice President and Director of Mergers, Acquisitions and
Strategic Planning in 1995, President - Commercial Fixtures and Display Group in
1998 and Senior Vice President in 1999.

     Robert A. Jefferies, Jr. has served as the Company's Senior Vice President,
Mergers, Acquisitions and Strategic Planning for more than the last five years.

     Jack D. Crusa has served the Company as Vice President and President -
Automotive Components for the last five years and became President - Industrial
Materials in 1999.

     Ernest C. Jett was appointed General Counsel in 1997, and was elected Vice
President and Secretary in 1995.  He previously served the Company as Assistant
General Counsel from 1979 to 1995 and as Managing Director of the Legal
Department from 1991 to 1997.

     Allan J. Ross has served the Company as Vice President, Accounting since
April, 1993.   In May, 1996 Mr. Ross was designated by the Board of Directors as
the Company's Principal Accounting Officer.
 

Item  11. Executive  Compensation.

     The section entitled "Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 12, 1999, is incorporated by reference.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     The section entitled "Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 12, 1999, is incorporated by reference.


Item 13.  Certain  Relationships  And  Related  Transactions.

          The subsection entitled "Related Transactions" of the section entitled
"Executive Compensation and Related Matters" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May
12, 1999 is incorporated by reference.



                                 PART  IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.


 

     1.   Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule Covered by
Report of Independent Accountants.

     The Financial Statements listed below are included in this Report:

     .    Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years in the three
          year period ended December 31, 1998

     .    Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997

     .    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the
          three year period ended December 31, 1998

     .    Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for each of
          the years in the three year period ended December 31, 1998

     .    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     .    Schedule for each of the years in the three year period ended December
          31, 1998


                Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves


          All other information schedules have been omitted as the required
information is inapplicable, not required, or the information is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

     2.      Exhibits - See Exhibit Index.

     3.      Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of 1998:

             Form 8-K filed as of December 1, 1998 regarding adoption of 
             Shareholder Protection Rights Plan



Consolidated Statements of Earnings
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries


(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)






The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

 
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries
                                

(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)


December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996



A-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated (Leggett & Platt) and its 
majority-owned subsidiaries (the Company). All significant intercompany
transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.

     CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash equivalents include cash in excess of daily
requirements which is invested in various financial instruments with original
maturities of three months or less.

     INVENTORIES: All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost includes materials, labor and production overhead. Cost is determined by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately 50% and 55% of the
inventories at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method is principally used for the remainder. The FIFO cost of
inventories at December 31, 1998 and 1997 approximated replacement cost.

     DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND ASSET IMPAIRMENT: Property, plant and
equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method. The rates of depreciation
range from 7% to 25% for machinery and equipment, 3% to 7% for buildings and 12%
to 33% for other items. Accelerated methods are used for tax purposes. The
excess cost of purchased companies over net assets acquired is amortized by the
straight-line method over forty years. Other intangibles are amortized by the
straight-line method over their estimated lives. The rates of amortization range
from 5% to 33%. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 121, long-lived assets,
including intangibles, are evaluated for probable recovery of their carrying
amount. Appropriate adjustment, using current market values, estimates of
discounted future cash flows and other methods, is made when recovery of the
carrying amount is not reasonably assured.

     CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISKS, EXPOSURES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The
Company engages in manufacturing, marketing, and distributing engineered
products for markets served by the Company as described in Note K. The Company's
operations are principally in the United States, although the Company also has
manufacturing subsidiaries in Canada, Europe, Mexico and China and marketing and
distribution operations in other areas.

     The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
conditions and generally requires no collateral from its customers, some of
which are highly leveraged. The Company maintains allowances for potential
credit losses and such losses have generally been within management's
expectations.

     From time to time, the Company will enter into forward exchange contracts
to hedge equipment purchases and other transactions in foreign currencies. The
amounts outstanding under the forward contracts at any point in time are not
significant to the Company. The Company has minimal continuing exposures to
other foreign currency transactions and interest rate fluctuations.

     The carrying value of cash and short-term financial instruments
approximates fair value due to the short maturity of those instruments. The fair
value of long-term debt exceeds the carrying value by approximately $23.

     OTHER RISKS: The Company obtains insurance for workers' compensation,
automobile, product and general liability, property loss and medical claims.
However, the Company has elected to retain a significant portion of expected
losses through the use of deductibles. Provisions for losses expected under
these programs are recorded based upon the Company's estimates of the aggregate
liability for claims incurred. These estimates utilize the Company's prior
experience and actuarial assumptions that are provided by the Company's
insurance carriers.

     ESTIMATES: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     INCOME TAXES: The Company provides for taxes on undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries where appropriate. The tax effect of most distributions
would be significantly offset by available foreign tax credits.

     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION: The Company applies the intrinsic value based
method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations in accounting for stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly,
compensation cost for stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's stock at the date of grant over the amount
an employee must pay to acquire the stock.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION: The functional currency for most foreign
operations is the local currency. The translation of foreign currencies into
U.S. dollars is performed for balance sheet accounts using current exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for income and expense accounts
using monthly average exchange rates. The cumulative effects of translating the
functional currencies into the U.S. dollar are included in comprehensive income.
Foreign entities whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar are not
significant.

 
B-Stock Split

     On June 15, 1998, the Company distributed a two-for-one stock split in the
form of a stock dividend. This resulted in the issuances of 98,289,297
additional shares of common stock and 34,096 shares held in treasury. All share
and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the split.

 
C-Acquisitions

     During 1998, the Company acquired sixteen businesses in transactions
accounted for as purchases. These transactions required the use of $117.1 in
cash, net of cash acquired, and 2,741,480 shares of common stock valued at
$59.8. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets
acquired increased goodwill by $121.8. The Company also issued 183,892 shares to
acquire one business in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests.
The Company elected not to restate its financial statements as the effect of
this pooling was not material. These acquired businesses manufacture and
distribute products primarily to the commercial furnishings and residential
furnishings markets, as well as the other markets the Company serves.

     The unaudited pro forma consolidated net sales for the years ended December
31, 1998 and 1997 as though the 1998 acquisitions had occurred on January 1 of
each year presented were $3,440.2 and $3,189.9, respectively. The unaudited pro
forma consolidated net earnings and earnings per share are not materially
different from the amounts reflected in the accompanying financial statements.
These pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of either results of
operations that would have occurred had the purchases been made on January 1 of
each year or of future results of the combined companies.

     During 1997, the Company acquired the assets of 28 companies in exchange
for $171.6 in cash, net of cash acquired, and 2,180,100 shares of common stock
valued at $38.7 in transactions accounted for as purchases. The excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired increased goodwill
by $116.0. These companies manufacture and distribute products to residential
furnishings, commercial furnishings and other markets. The Company also issued
3,736,960 shares to acquire two businesses in transactions accounted for as
poolings of interests. The Company elected not to restate its financial
statements as the effect of these poolings was not material. These businesses
manufacture and distribute products to aluminum products markets.

     On May 13, 1996, the Company issued 10,268,184 shares of common stock to
acquire Pace Holdings, Inc. (Pace) in a transaction accounted for as a pooling
of interests. Pace is a leading manufacturer and marketer of non-automotive
aluminum die cast components. Previously issued financial statements were
restated to reflect the pooling.

     In connection with a 1993 leveraged buyout transaction, Pace adopted an
employee stock option/bonus plan that provided for the granting of options,
under certain conditions, at an exercise price of $.01 per Pace share. In May
1996, prior to the acquisition, options were granted and exercised under the
plan resulting in compensation expense of $12 before taxes. Other merger
expense, including costs for the accrual of commitments under contracts no
longer benefiting the Company and legal and environmental issues, was $14.6
before taxes in 1996.

     Following the acquisition, the Company issued a tender offer to all holders
of the Pace 10.625% senior notes. In June 1996, the notes were redeemed at
approximately 113% of par value, plus accrued interest. The cash required for
the redemption was provided through the issuance of medium-term notes and the
Company's revolving credit agreements. The Company recognized an extraordinary
charge, net of related tax benefits, of $12.5 from the extinguishment of debt.

     Also during 1996, the Company acquired the assets of twelve companies in
transactions accounted for as purchases. These transactions required the use of
$89.7 in cash, net of cash acquired, and 4,256,248 shares of common stock and
common stock equivalents valued at $54.5. The excess of the purchase price over
the fair value of the net assets acquired increased goodwill by $86.6. In
addition, the Company issued 1,124,858 shares to acquire another business in a
transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Company elected not to
restate its financial statements as the effect of this pooling was not material.
These acquired businesses manufacture and distribute products to residential
furnishings, commercial furnishings and other markets.

     The results of operations of the above acquired companies, except the 1996
Pace pooling, have been included in the consolidated financial statements since
the dates of acquisition.

     The terms of certain of the Company's acquisition agreements provide for
additional consideration to be paid if the acquired company's results of
operations exceed certain targeted levels. Such additional consideration may be
paid in cash or shares of the Company's common stock, and is recorded when
earned as additional purchase price. The maximum amount of additional
consideration remaining at December 31, 1998 is approximately $50 and will be
payable, if earned, through 2002.

 

D - Earnings Per Share

     Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:



 
E-Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities

     Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31 consist of
the following:



 
F-Long-Term Debt

     Long-term debt, weighted average interest rates and due dates at December
31 are as follows:



     The current revolving credit agreements provide for a maximum line of
credit of $300. For any revolving credit agreement, the Company may elect to pay
interest based on 1) the bank's base lending rate, 2) LIBOR, 3) an adjusted
certificate of deposit rate, or 4) the money market rate, as specified in the
revolving credit agreements. Agreement amounts of $217.5 and $82.5 will
terminate at July 31, 2002 and August 31, 1999, respectively, at which time all
outstanding balances will become due.

     Medium-term notes that mature in the current year are classified as long-
term debt since the Company intends to refinance them on a long-term basis
either through continued issuance or unused credit available under the revolving
credit agreements.

     The revolving credit agreements and certain other long-term debt contain
restrictive covenants which, among other restrictions, limit the amount of
additional debt and require net earnings to meet or exceed specified levels of
funded debt.

     Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following 1998 are:

                              

 
G-Lease Obligations

     The Company conducts certain operations in leased premises and also leases
most of its automotive and trucking equipment and some other assets. Terms of
the leases, including purchase options, renewals and maintenance costs, vary by
lease.

     Total rental expense entering into the determination of results of
operations was $29.6, $27.3 and $24.3 for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Future minimum rental commitments for all long-term noncancelable operating
leases are as follows:



     The above lease obligations expire at various dates through 2010. Certain
leases contain renewal and/or purchase options. Aggregate rental commitments
above include renewal amounts where it is the intention of the Company to renew
the lease.



 
H-Capital Stock

STOCK ACTIVITY

     Activity in the Company's stock accounts for each of the three years ended
December 31 is as follows:



     The Company issues shares for employee stock plans and acquisitions.  The
Company purchases its common stock to meet the requirements of the employee
stock purchase and incentive plans, to replace shares issued in purchase
acquisitions and to satisfy contractual obligations.  The Company will also
receive shares in stock-for-stock option exercises.

STOCK OPTIONS

     At December 31, 1998, the Company had 13,836,912 common shares authorized 
for issuance under stock option plans.  Generally, options become exercisable in
varying installments, beginning 6 to 18 months after the date of grant, and have
a maximum term of 5-15 years.  Options may be issued with exercise prices at or
below market price.  Compensation cost charged against income related to the
Company's stock option grants for each of the years ending December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 was $8.9, $6.6 and $13.7, respectively.  Compensation cost
includes amounts for options granted under the deferred compensation plan for
certain executives, which allows the executive to elect stock options in lieu of
future salary and bonuses.  Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-based
compensation plans been determined based on the estimated fair value of the
options at the grant dates, consistent with the method of FASB Statement No.
123, the Company's net income and earnings per share would not be significantly
reduced.

     A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996, and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below:





     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1998:



     The Company also has authorized shares for issuance in connection with
certain employee stock benefit plans discussed in Note I.

PAR VALUE AMENDMENT

     In 1993, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's
Restated Articles of Incorporation reducing the par value of Common Stock to
$.01 from $1.  The amendment provided that the stated capital of the Company
would not be affected as of the date of the amendment.  Accordingly, stated
capital of the Company exceeds the amount reported as common stock in the
financial statements by approximately $39.

SHAREHOLDER PROTECTION RIGHTS PLAN

     In 1989, the Company declared a dividend distribution of one preferred
stock purchase right (a Right) for each share of common stock.  The Rights were
attached to and traded with the Company's common stock.  The Rights became
exercisable only under certain circumstances involving actual or potential
acquisitions of the Company's common stock. The Rights expired in February 1999.
The Company simultaneously issued substantially identical rights, which remain
in existence until February 2009, unless they are exercised, exchanged or
redeemed at an earlier date. Depending upon the circumstances, if these Rights
become exercisable, the holder may be entitled to purchase shares of Series A
junior preferred stock of the Company, shares of the Company's common stock or
shares of common stock of the acquiring entity.

 
I-Employee Benefit Plans

     The following table provides information at December 31 as to the Company
sponsored defined benefit pension plans:



     Plan assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity, debt and
government securities, including 1,176,000 shares of the Company's common stock
at December 31, 1998.

 
     Contributions to union sponsored, defined benefit, multiemployer pension
plans were $.2 in 1998, 1997 and 1996. These plans are not administered by the
Company and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of
negotiated labor contracts. As of 1998, the actuarially computed values of
vested benefits for these plans were primarily equal to or less than the net
assets of the plans. Therefore, the Company would have no material withdrawal
liability. However, the Company has no present intention of withdrawing from any
of these plans, nor has the Company been informed that there is any intention to
terminate such plans.

     Net pension expense, including Company sponsored defined benefit plans,
multiemployer plans and other plans, was $.4, $.8 and $.4 in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

     The Company has a contributory stock purchase/stock bonus plan (SPSB Plan),
a non-qualified executive stock purchase program (ESPP) and an employees'
discount stock plan (DSP). The SPSB Plan provides Company pre-tax contributions
of 50% of the amount of employee contributions. The ESPP provides cash payments
of 50% of the employees' contributions, along with an additional payment to
assist employees in paying taxes on the cash payments. To the extent possible,
contributions to the ESPP are invested in the Company's common stock through the
DSP. In addition, the Company matches its contributions when certain
profitability levels, as defined in the SPSB Plan and the ESPP, have been
attained. The Company's total contributions to the SPSB Plan and the ESPP were
$6.9, $5.8 and $4.7 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Under the DSP, eligible employees may purchase a maximum of 16,000,000
shares of Company common stock. The purchase price per share is 85% of the
closing market price on the last business day of each month. Shares purchased
under the DSP were 894,445, 871,394 and 1,009,210 during 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Purchase prices ranged from $10 to $23 per share. Since inception
of the DSP in 1982, a total of 13,100,743 shares have been purchased by
employees.

 
J-Income Taxes

     The components of earnings before income taxes and extraordinary item are
as follows:



      Income tax expense is comprised of the following components:


     In addition to the above income tax expense, the Company recognized a
current benefit from an extraordinary item of $7.7 in 1996.
     Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between
the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities.  The major temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets or liabilities are as follows:


     Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance 
sheet are as follows:



     A valuation allowance has not been provided for the deferred tax asset as
the Company believes it will be realized through future taxable income and
reversal of other timing differences.

 
     Income tax expense, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes and
extraordinary item, differs from the statutory federal income tax rate as
follows:



 
K-Segment Information

     The Company has primarily determined its reportable segments based upon the
internal organization, which is generally focused on broad end-user markets for
its diversified products. Residential Furnishings derives its revenues from
bedding, furniture and other furnishings components and related consumer
products. Commercial Furnishings derives its revenues from office and
institutional furnishings components, retail store fixtures, displays and other
commercial products and systems. The Aluminum Products segment derives its
revenues from die castings, custom tooling and dies, machining and coating and
aluminum raw materials (ingot). Industrial Materials derives its revenues from
drawn wire, specialty wire products and welded steel tubing materials.
Specialized Products is a combination of segments which derive their revenues
from machinery and manufacturing equipment and automotive seating suspension,
lumbar support and control cable systems.

     The accounting principles used in the preparation of the segment
information are the same as used for the consolidated financial statements,
except that the segment assets and income reflect the FIFO basis of accounting
for inventory. Certain inventories are accounted for using the LIFO basis in the
consolidated financial statements. The Company evaluates performance based on
earnings from operations before interest and income taxes (EBIT). Intersegment
sales are made primarily at prices that approximate market-based selling prices.
Centrally incurred costs are allocated to the segments based on estimates of
services used by the segment. Certain general and administrative costs of the
Company are allocated to the segments based on sales. Asset information for the
segments includes only inventory, trade receivables, net property, plant and
equipment and purchased intangibles. These segment assets are reflected in the
segment information at their estimated average for the year. Long-lived assets
as disclosed below include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other
intangibles, and long-term assets. Centrally incurred costs and allocated
general and administrative costs include depreciation and other costs related to
assets that are not allocated or otherwise included in the segment assets.

     Summarized financial information concerning the Company's reportable
segments is shown in the following tables:



 



 

 

Revenues from external customers, by product line, are as follows:





The Company's operations outside of the United States are principally in Canada,
Europe and Mexico, none of which are individually material to its consolidated
operations. The geographic information that follows regarding sales is based on
the area of manufacture.





L-Contingencies

     The Company is involved in various legal proceedings including matters
which involve claims against the Company under employment, intellectual
property, environmental and other laws. One of the Company's subsidiaries is
involved in an unfair labor complaint filed by the National Labor Relations
Board prior to the Company's acquisition of the subsidiary. An administrative
decision has been rendered against the subsidiary, which has been upheld by the
courts. The Company is currently pursuing actions to resolve this matter.

     When it appears probable in management's judgement that the Company will
incur monetary damages or other costs in connection with claims and proceedings,
and the costs can be reasonably estimated, appropriate liabilities are recorded
in the financial statements and charges are made against earnings. No claim or
proceeding has resulted in a material charge against earnings, nor are the total
liabilities recorded material to the Company's financial position. While the
results of any ultimate resolution cannot be predicted, management believes the
possibility of a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial
position, results of operations and cash flows from claims and proceedings is
remote.

 

                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated:

     In our opinion, the financial statements listed in the index appearing
under Item 14 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1998 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP

St. Louis, Missouri
February 3, 1999

 
Quarterly Summary of Earnings
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

(Unaudited)
(Dollar amounts in millions, except per share data)



Previously reported per share data have been restated to reflect a two-for-one
stock split distributed on June 15, 1998.



                LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
         SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                             (Amounts in millions)


__________________
(A) Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recoveries


 
                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       LEGGETT & PLATT, INCORPORATED


                                             /s/ HARRY M. CORNELL, JR.
                                       By: ___________________________
                                            Harry M. Cornell, Jr.
                                            Chairman of the Board and
                                            Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 30, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and 
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

 


 
 


 
 


 

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX




 


- -----------------
(1)  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

