
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
================================================================================
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
    [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                      OR
    [_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                        Commission File Number: 1-7933
                                Aon Corporation
            (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

                             ____________________

               DELAWARE
    (State or Other Jurisdiction of                             36-3051915
    Incorporation or Organization)                           (I.R.S. Employer
        123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                             Identification No.)
            CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                      60606
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                         (Zip Code)
             (312) 701-3000
           (Telephone Number)

                              --------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:




       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
*The Common Stock of the Registrant is also listed for trading on the Chicago
          Stock Exchange and The International Stock Exchange London.

                             --------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  [X]      NO  [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements,
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.   [X]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28, 1995 was $3,008,185,977.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock outstanding as of February 28,
1995:  108,305,662.

         Documents From Which Information Is Incorporated By Reference:
      Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 1994 
                             (Parts I, II and IV)
           Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and 
                              Series C Preferred
Stock and Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 20, 1995
                         of the Registrant (Part III)

================================================================================

 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.


     The Registrant is an insurance holding company.  Incorporated in 1979, it
is the parent corporation of long established and more recently formed
companies.  Rollins Hudig Hall Holdings b.v., the Registrant's principal
European commercial insurance brokerage subsidiary, traces its origin back to
1688.  The Life Insurance Company of Virginia, another of Registrant's principal
subsidiaries, was incorporated in 1871.  It, along with subsidiaries Combined
Insurance Company of America and Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company/1/ engage
in the marketing of life and accident and health insurance products.  Virginia
Surety Company, Inc., Dearborn Insurance Company and London General Insurance
Company, Ltd., also subsidiaries, offer specialty property and casualty
insurance products.  Aon Risk Services, Inc., Aon Specialty Group, Inc., Rollins
Hudig Hall Holdings b.v., Godwins International, Inc., Nicholson Leslie Group,
Limited and Rollins Hudig Hall Co., subsidiaries of Registrant's wholly-owned
subsidiary, Rollins Hudig Hall Group, Inc., provide reinsurance intermediary
services, benefits consulting and commercial insurance brokerage services.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference pages 15 through 19 and 21
through 25 of the Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the year
1994 ("Annual Report").

Competition and Industry Position


(1) INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND CONSULTING SERVICES


     Rollins Hudig Hall Co. ("RHH"), Rollins Hudig Hall Holdings b.v. ("Hudig"),
Aon Risk Services, Inc. ("ARS"), Aon Specialty Group, Inc. ("ASG"), Godwins
International, Inc. ("Godwins") and Nicholson Leslie Group, Limited ("NL").


     Rollins Hudig Hall Group, Inc., ("RHH Group"), is a holding company for the
Registrant's commercial brokerage and consulting operation.  RHH Group is the
third largest brokerage and consulting services firm in the world.  In early
1993, the Registrant completed the acquisition of the remaining outstanding
interest in its London-based wholesale broker, Nicholson Leslie Group, Limited
(formerly Nicholson Chamberlain Colls Limited.)  The RHH Group companies have
offices around the world and employ more than 13,000 professionals and support
personnel who serve the diverse needs of the Registrant's growing multinational
client base.


     RHH is ranked second among commercial insurance brokerage firms in the
United States in terms of gross revenues (Business Insurance, July 18, 1994).
Its subsidiaries operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with a
large number of insurance brokerage and agency firms as well as individual
brokers and agents and direct writers of insurance coverage.  RHH subsidiaries
offer comprehensive services to clients which range from small businesses to
major corporations, including placement of all lines of insurance, actuarial

------------
/1/The Registrant's Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company subsidiary and its The
Credit Life Insurance Company subsidiary merged in 1993 and all lines of
business conducted by the separate companies prior to the merger are now
conducted by Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company.




 
services, proprietary risk management information systems, captive management,
and risk management and loss control consulting. It has also developed certain
specialist niche areas such as marine, aviation, directors and officers
liability, financial institutions, construction, energy, public entities,
leisure, entertainment and fine art. Hudig traces its commercial broking roots
to 1688 and is one of the premier brokers in Continental Europe with some 70
European offices and approximately 2,100 employees. Hudig has subsidiaries in
more than thirty countries and, together with an unaffiliated English broker, is
part of a joint venture that owns a network of insurance broking offices in
Southeast Asia.

     RHH and Hudig operate through subsidiaries with owned offices in North
America and Europe, as well as in the Far East, the Middle East, Central and
Latin America, and Australia. RHH is actively pursuing expansion in Latin
America and the far East. During 1994, Hudig subsidiaries opened offices in
Russia, Finland, Turkey, Portugal and Slovakia, and expanded its rapidly growing
European art brokerage business, operating under the name ArtScope, with
acquisitions of specialized art brokers in France and Germany. Together with its
Huntington T. Block operation in Washington, D.C. RHH is now one of the leading
art brokerage specialists in the world. RHH also acquired an Australian broker
specializing in group programs, making RHH one of the largest such brokers in
that part of the world.
 
     ARS offers creative, flexible and economical solutions to clients requiring
alternative risk services.  ARS subsidiaries, Aon Re Inc., formerly Aon
Reinsurance Agency, Inc. ("Aon Re") and Aon Risk Consultants, Inc., specialize
in providing reinsurance brokerage and consulting services. Aon Re ranked second
in 1993 among United States reinsurance intermediaries in terms of gross
revenues as published in Business Insurance (October 31, 1994).
 
     Aon Re Worldwide, formed in 1993 to bring together all the reinsurance
operations of ARS, has become one of the top reinsurance intermediaries in the
world.  The captive management and alternative market services in Europe were
combined under the name Aon Risk Services (Europe).  In 1994, new offices were
opened in Luxembourg and The Netherlands.  Agricultural Risk Management in
London, specializing in the evaluation of agricultural risk, was acquired in
early 1995.  Through Aon Risk Consultants, ARS offers actuarial expertise,
catastrophe modeling and alternative risk financing products to the global
marketplace.  SLE Worldwide is a leading managing general underwriter in the
sports, leisure and entertainment industries, both domestically and abroad.

     ASG addresses the highly specialized product development, consulting and
administrative needs of associations, affinity groups and financial services
companies nationwide.  ASG operating subsidiaries market and broker both the
primary and reinsurance risks of these programs.  Go Pro, Inc. acts as an
underwriting manager for property and liability programs for government
entities, public officials, school boards and law enforcement agencies.  Aon
Direct Group is ASG's direct marketer of specialty insurance products for
associations and affinity groups.
 
     Media/Professional Insurance (M/PI), a division of Aon Direct Group, is one
of the largest providers of libel and other insurance to the broadcast and print
media in the United States.  Its Bankers Insurance Service Corp. subsidiary is
an underwriting manager that serves the mortgage banking industry.  Its
Scarborough & Co. subsidiary provides similar underwriting services to community
banks, mortgage and savings institutions.

     ASG formed the Aon Alliance in 1993 to bring together expertise from
throughout the Registrant's operating subsidiaries to deliver value-added
service to the health-care industry, especially hospitals.  The Aon Alliance
provides professional liability insurance, software systems, reinsurance,
benefits, risk management, claims investigation, workers' compensation, retail
brokerage services and underwriting management.  As part of its overall health-
care strategy, ASG, in 1994, acquired OUM & Associates, an underwriting manager
and program administrator with a specialization in medical malpractice
coverages.


 
     Employee training has long been an area of expertise for Aon companies, and
the 1994 acquisition of Pecos River Learning Centers, Inc. extends that
expertise into a broad range of industries, including some of the largest
multinational corporations.  Further, it builds upon a tradition of nationally
recognized customer-satisfaction consulting and training programs developed for
the automobile industry by Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. subsidiaries.

     The Registrant serves the employee benefits needs of clients around the
world through subsidiaries of Godwins and through the European benefits
operations of Hudig.  Godwins and its affiliated subsidiaries do business as
Godwins Booke and Dickenson ("GBD"), and serve the United States and Latin
America.  GBD was formed after the July 1, 1993 merger with Booke & Company
Inc., an actuarial and employee benefits consulting firm.
 
     In the United States, the benefits environment continues to change as
companies look for ways to manage their benefits costs while increasing the
choices offered to their employees.  GBD, with its expertise in all areas of
benefits and compensation, and its access to the Registrant's other
subsidiaries, is well-positioned to serve this market.  Existing business
continued to be influenced by a sluggish benefits consulting environment in the
United States.  Benefits issues in foreign countries are becoming more
complicated, and Hudig and Godwins anticipates increased demand for their
services in these markets. 

     The late-1994 acquisition of HRStrategies Inc. marks an important expansion
for GBD.  HRStrategies specializes in human resources strategy development,
employee selection, and identification and development of employee skill and
skills assessment systems.  As employers contend with a steadily shrinking
skilled labor pool, the ability to identify, motivate and compensate the skilled
worker becomes increasingly important.

     NL is a London based Lloyd's broker that was formed as a result of
Nicholson Chamberlain & Coll's 1993 acquisitions of the assets of Leslie &
Godwins and the remaining outstanding shares of Nicholson Chamberlain & Colls.
It places wholesale and reinsurance business in the London and international
markets, serving the needs of a wide range of clients around the world.  A
significant majority of NL's revenue is derived from sources unaffiliated with
Aon.

     During 1994, Aon acquired Lloyd's broker Jenner Fenton Slade Group Limited
(JFS), a premier energy insurance and reinsurance brokerage firm.  The
acquisition of JFS expands the expertise of Aon in this important and growing
area.  The energy brokerage operations of NL will be integrated into JFS.


(2) LIFE INSURANCE


     The Life Insurance Company of Virginia ("LOV"), Combined Insurance Company
of America ("Combined Insurance"), Combined Life Insurance Company of New York
("CLICNY"), Globe Life Insurance Company ("Globe") and Union Fidelity Life
Insurance Company ("Union Fidelity").
 
     The Registrant's life insurance subsidiaries are part of a highly
competitive industry.  LOV is the Registrant's principal life company.  LOV and 
its broker-dealer subsidiary conducts operations through a combination of branch
offices, independent broker arrangements, national and regional stock brokerage
houses and financial institutions.  Collectively, LOV operates through 150
career and independent agencies with approximately 386 field representatives and
has contracts with approximately 17,000 independent brokers.  LOV also operates
through 159 national and regional stock brokerage houses and 7 financial
institutions and has contracts with some 17,000 stockbrokers and representatives
in financial institutions.  LOV's franchise distribution system, the Forth
Financial Network, operates through 28 franchises supporting approximately 400
agents


 
marketing capital accumulation and traditional life products underwritten by
LOV and unrelated insurers. Business written by LOV includes a complete
portfolio of regular ordinary life insurance, individual and group annuities,
group life and group disability, variable life, variable annuities and universal
life coverages. In 1993 (the most recent year for which comparative tables are
available), LOV ranked 50th in terms of total life premiums and annuity premiums
written. In terms of total ordinary life insurance in force, LOV ranked 71st.

     Combined Insurance and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CLICNY (which operates
exclusively in the state of New York) market primarily whole life products
through direct sales career agents in the United States.  Unit-linked products
are sold in the United Kingdom by Combined Life Assurance Company Limited, an
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Registrant.  Life insurance business is
conducted in 49 states, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Australia
and New Zealand, by the Registrant's life insurance subsidiaries.  Combined
Insurance ranked among the top 100 life insurance companies in the United States
in terms of total life premiums in 1993.

     Union Fidelity focuses on third-party and affinity clients in marketing
life products, while the Group Division of Combined Insurance concentrates on
the small-employer group market offering products underwritten by Combined
Insurance.


(3) ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE

     Combined Insurance, CLICNY, Union Fidelity, Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.
("Ryan"), Globe, and LOV.


     Through its various operating subsidiaries, the Registrant's accident and
health operations serve individuals, businesses, affinity groups and
associations in North America, Europe and the Pacific.  The accident and health
distribution network encompasses the agents of Combined Insurance, the direct-
response marketing capabilities of Union Fidelity, the agents and brokers of the
Group Division of Combined Insurance, and the automobile dealers and financial
institutions that market the products of Ryan.

     Combined Insurance, the Registrant's principal accident and health insurer,
has a direct sales force of more than 9,000 career agents calling on individuals
to sell a broad spectrum of accident and health products.  It is one of the few
companies with agents that call on customers every six months to renew and to
sell additional coverage.  Combined Insurance offers a wide range of accident
only and sickness only insurance products including short term disability,
cancer aid, Medicare supplement and disability income coverage.  Combined
Insurance's products are primarily fixed indemnity disability based, thereby not
subject to exposure to escalating medical costs.  Combined Insurance offers a
simplified accident and sickness long-term disability policy.   In 1993,
Combined Insurance was ranked among the top 10 companies in the United States
in terms of individual non-cancelable and guaranteed renewable accident and
health insurance premiums written and ranked 24th among all United States
companies in terms of total accident and health insurance premiums written.

     Operating in the United States in the highly competitive direct response
marketing segment of the  industry, Union Fidelity and the Group Division of
Combined Insurance serve different markets with different products.  Through
emphasis on service to sponsored and affiliated groups, Union Fidelity continues
to capture a stable share of the direct response market.


 
     The Group Division of Combined Insurance operates in the small-group
market, with life, long-and short-term disability, and dental insurance products
sold through managing general agents, brokers and LOV's career agent system and
agents of endorsed companies.  The group life and disability products are
underwritten by Combined Insurance and administered through the Trevose,
Pennsylvania facility.  These products are generally targeted at businesses with
fewer than 500 lives.  In particular, the Group Division of Combined Insurance
offers a portfolio of products designed for small companies desiring a flexible
benefits package for employees.

     Ryan (with policies underwritten by Globe and Union Fidelity) is the
largest independent marketer of credit life and disability products sold through
automobile dealers.  Union Fidelity sells short and long-term credit related
insurance products to qualified borrowers from financial institutions and
mortgage companies through a captive sales force and select brokers and general
agents.  In terms of direct premiums written with respect to credit life
insurance, Globe ranked third among all companies in 1993. In January 1995,
Globe merged with Combined Insurance.  Ryan subsidiaries operate in a highly
competitive industry, competing against numerous insurers and insurance agents
engaged in selling credit life and disability insurance, including some which
also provide finance and consulting services to automobile dealers.  Ryan also
is in direct competition with lending institutions which operate on a national
basis, some of which have working arrangements with insurance companies writing
credit insurance. Substantially all of the credit insurance sold by Ryan
subsidiaries is generated through dealers or financial institutions who have no
legal obligation or commitment to continue as agents for Ryan and are free to
terminate such relationships and act as agents for, and place insurance with,
Ryan's competitors.


(4) SPECIALTY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE
 

     Ryan, Virginia Surety Company, Inc. ("VSC"), London General Insurance
Company, Ltd. ("London General"), and Dearborn Insurance Company ("Dearborn").


     The Registrant's specialty property and casualty insurance business,
conducted by subsidiaries VSC, Dearborn & London General, has traditionally been
composed primarily of extended warranty insurance products, professional
liability insurance coverages, workers' compensation and specialty financial
institution coverages.  During 1994, VSC continued its withdrawal from the
direct risk-taking and underwriting of certain lines of property and casualty
business except extended warranty and the reinsurance of various liability
programs.  VSC and London General continue to be the largest independent
providers of automobile extended warranties worldwide.  Ryan's automobile
warranty products are sold in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, the
Netherlands, Belgium and Spain.

     During 1994, Aon Warranty Group was created to handle certain extended
warranty products on automobiles, electronic goods, personal computers and
appliances.  In addition, the company acquired Independent Dealer Services Inc.
(IDS) of St. Louis, a major extended warranty marketing and administration
company for electronic goods, personal computers and appliances.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

     Insurance companies must comply with laws and regulations of the
jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed
to ensure financial solvency of insurance companies and to require fair and
adequate service and treatment for policyholders. They are enforced by the
states in the United States, by industry self-regulating agencies in the United
Kingdom, and by various regulatory agencies in other countries through the
granting and revoking of licenses to do business, licensing of agents,
monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, minimum loss ratio
requirements, limits on premium and commission rates, and minimum reserve and
capital requirements. Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments
through periodic regulatory reporting procedures and periodic


 
examinations. The quarterly and annual financial reports to the regulators in
the United States utilize accounting principles which are different from the
generally accepted accounting principles used in stockholders' reports. The
statutory accounting principles, in keeping with the intent to assure the
protection of policyholders, are based, in general, on a liquidation concept
while generally accepted accounting principles are based on a going concern
concept.

     The state insurance regulators are members of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). This Association seeks to promote uniformity
of and to enhance the state regulation of insurance. Both the NAIC and the
individual states have significantly increased their focus on the solvency of
insurance companies. This focus is reflected in additional regulatory oversight
by the states and emphasis on the enactment or adoption of a series of NAIC
model laws and regulations designed to promote solvency. The increase in any
solvency related oversight by the states will not have any significant impact on
the insurance business of the Registrant.

     In addition, the NAIC has developed a formula for analyzing insurers called
risk based capital ("RBC"). RBC is intended to establish "minimum" capital
threshold levels that vary with the size and mix of business of a company. It is
designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may require
regulatory attention. RBC does not have any significant impact on the insurance
business of the Registrant.

     Insurance companies are generally not subject to any federal regulation of
their insurance business because of the existence of a federal law commonly
known as the McCarran-Ferguson Act. McCarran-Ferguson provides the insurance
industry with immunity from certain aspects of the federal anti-trust law and
exempts the business of insurance from federal regulation. In the past several
years there have been a number of recommendations that McCarran-Ferguson be
repealed entirely or modified to remove the industry's anti-trust exemption and
subject it to federal regulation. If McCarran-Ferguson were to be repealed or
modified, state regulation of the insurance business would continue. The result
could be an additional layer of federal regulation. The Registrant expects that
any repeal of anti-trust exemptions available to insurers under the McCarran-
Ferguson Act would not have a significant impact on its operations.

     The state insurance holding company laws require prior notice to and
approval of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate transfers
of assets within the holding company structure, including the payment of
dividends by insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, sales of credit
insurance by Ryan's agents and premium finance loans by Cananwill, Inc., an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrant, are subject to one or more
of truth-in-lending and credit regulations, insurance premium finance acts,
retail installment sales acts and other similar consumer legislation. Failure to
comply with such laws or regulations can result in the temporary suspension or
permanent loss of the right to engage in business in a particular jurisdiction
as well as other penalties.

     Regulatory authorities in the states in which the operating subsidiaries of
RHH Group conduct business may require individual or company licensing to act as
brokers, agents, third party administrators, managing general agents,
reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most states,
regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to
granting, renewing and revoking brokers' and agents' licenses to transact
business in the state. The manner of operating in particular states may vary
according to the licensing requirements of the particular state, which may
require, among other things, that a firm operate in the state through a local
corporation. In a few states, licenses are issued only to individual residents
or locally-owned business entities. In such cases, RHH Group subsidiaries have
arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the state.

     If their sales activities so require, employees of some of the Registrants
are registered with one of the Registrant's three broker-dealer subsidiaries. 
These broker-dealers and employees registered therewith are subject to the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to rules and regulations promulgated thereunder
by the SEC and to state securities laws and regulations.

     There continues to be activity in the area of health care reform at the
state levels in the United States. Numerous states have had legislation
introduced to reform the health care system and such legislation has passed in
several states. While it is impossible to forecast the precise nature of future
state health care changes, the Registrant does not expect a major impact on its
operations because of the 


 
supplemental nature of most of the policies issued by its insurance subsidiaries
and because the coverages are primarily purchased to provide financial
protection through loss of time or disability benefits.  If health care reform
does not provide for a significant role for insurance companies currently
writing primary medical coverage, the Registrant expects that some of those
companies would increase their participation in other segments of the accident
and health insurance business, perhaps heightening the competition with Combined
Insurance.  Combined Insurance and its subsidiaries currently operate
successfully in several foreign countries which have national health plans in
effect.


MORTGAGE LOAN AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS

     Mortgage loans and real estate investments held by the Registrants'
subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 were $567.5 million and $35.6 million,
respectively.  Commercial mortgage loans represent over 98% of total mortgage
loans at December 31, 1994.  Mortgage loans and real estate in the South
Atlantic region totalled $307.6 million and $26.8 million, respectively, at
December 31, 1994.  The five states carrying the highest concentrations of these
mortgage loans and real estate investments are listed below by each category.



CAPITAL ACCUMULATION INVESTMENT TYPE CONTRACTS

     The capital accumulation products sold by the Registrant's insurance
subsidiaries in 1994 and 1993 had the earned revenue composition presented in
the following table:


     Among these product types, those that are investment type contracts (as
defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97) are annuities
(approximately 87% are single premium deferred annuities) and guaranteed
investment contracts.  Significant terms and conditions of these contracts are
described below.




     SINGLE PREMIUM DEFERRED ANNUITIES (SPDAS):   The Registrant's insurance
subsidiaries had approximately $2 billion of SPDA reserves in force at December
31, 1994.  SPDAs are single premium accumulation vehicles with one, three or
five year interest rate guarantees, after which declared one year guaranteed
renewal rates are set based on prevailing economic conditions.  There is a
minimum guaranteed interest rate of 4% on most policies.  Policies contain
decreasing surrender charges for either a five or seven year period, and contain
several guaranteed income options at maturity.  Approximately 13% of the in
force SPDA policyholder funds have a bailout option where, if the declared
renewal interest rate is less than the initial rate, the policyowner may
surrender the policy without a surrender charge.  The policyowner has a 30 to 
60-day time period in which to exercise this option.

     GUARANTEED INVESTMENT CONTRACTS (GICS):  The Registrant's insurance
subsidiaries had approximately $1.6 billion in GIC contracts outstanding at
December 31, 1994.  Of these, 65% are fixed rate contracts originally written
with a maturity from two to six years.  The average maturity of the fixed rate
GIC pool was 2.4 years at December 31, 1994.  Most of these contracts either
cannot be liquidated prior to maturity, or if they can be liquidated by the
contractholder, they are subject to a market value adjustment calculated to
provide a significant penalty to the contractholder.  The remaining 35% of the
GICs are variable rate contracts which have rates that float monthly based on an
index relating to money market yields.  These contracts have no fixed maturities
but may be liquidated in seven days to one year, depending on the contract, at
the contractholder's request.  The  Registrant's insurance subsidiaries may, at
their option, change the index, but if they do so, the contractholder would have
a right to liquidate the contract.

     Most of the GICs are benefit sensitive to varying degrees.  As of December
31, 1994, most GIC contracts were for the benefit of qualified retirement plans.
The terms of these investment type contracts are typical of similar products
sold by competitors.


CLIENTELE

     No significant part of the Registrant's or its subsidiaries' business is
dependent upon a single client or on a few clients, the loss of any one of which
would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

     The Registrant's subsidiaries, at the end of 1994, had more than 18,000
salaried and hourly employees and approximately 9,000 sales representatives who
are generally compensated wholly or primarily by commission.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     The Registrants' subsidiaries own and occupy office buildings in seven
states, Puerto Rico and certain foreign countries, and lease office space
elsewhere in the United States and in various foreign cities.  Loss of the use
of any owned or leased property, while potentially disruptive, would have no
material impact on the Registrant.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 11 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 48 of the Annual Report.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     None.


 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board of
Directors at the annual meeting of the Board which is held following each annual
meeting of the stockholders of the Registrant.  The executive officers of the
Registrant were elected to their current positions on April 15, 1994 to serve
until the meeting of the Board following the annual meeting of stockholders on
April 20, 1995.  Ages shown are as of March 15, 1995.

     For information concerning certain executive officers of the Registrant,
see item 10, below.  As of March 15, 1995, the following are also executive
officers of the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f):


 
 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
MATTERS.

     The Registrant's $1.00 par value common shares ("Common Shares") are traded
on the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges.  The Registrant hereby
incorporates by reference the "Dividends paid per share" and "Price range" data
on page 51 of the Annual Report.

     The Registrant had approximately 14,000 holders of record of its Common
Shares as of February 28, 1995.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 7 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 43 and 44 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the "Selected Financial
Data" table on page 50 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference "Management's Analysis of
Operating Results and Financial Condition" on pages 27 through 32 of the Annual
Report.


 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the following statements, 
notes and data from the Annual Report.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENT WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    Not Applicable.


 
                                   PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information on pages 3
and 6 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C
Preferred Stock and Proxy Statement For Annual Meeting of the Stockholders on
April 20, 1995, of the Registrant ("Proxy Statement") concerning the following
Directors of the Registrant, each of whom also serves as an executive officer of
the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f): Patrick G. Ryan and Raymond I.
Skilling.  Information concerning additional executive officers of the
Registrant is contained in Part I hereof, pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information under the
headings "Executive Compensation," "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal
Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Option Grants in 1994 Fiscal Year" and
"Pension Plan Table" on pages 11 through 13 of the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the share ownership data
contained on pages 2, 7 and 8 of the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information under the
heading "Transactions with Management" on page 17 of the Proxy Statement.


 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A)(1) AND (2). The Registrant has incorporated by reference from the Annual
Report (see Item 8) the following consolidated financial statements of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:



Financial statement schedules of the Registrant and consolidated 
subsidiaries not included in the Annual Report but filed herewith:
     Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules--
 
                                                                        Schedule
                                                                        --------
       Summary of Investments-Other than Investments in Related Parties      I
       Parent Company Condensed Financial Statements                        II
       Supplementary Insurance Information                                 III
       Reinsurance                                                          IV
       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                                     V
       Schedule VI is omitted as it is immaterial


 
(A)(3).  EXHIBITS

   (a) Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant--
       incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant's Annual
       Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K for the
       year ending December 31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

   (b) Certificate of Amendment of the Registrant's Second Restated
       Certificate of Incorporation--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to
       the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending
       March 31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q").

   (c) Bylaws of the Registrant--incorporated by reference to Exhibit (d) to
       the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
       on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 1982 (the "1982 Form 
       10-K").

   (d) Indenture dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant and
       Continental Bank Corporation (now known as Bank of America Illinois), as
       Trustee--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Registrant's
       Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 23, 1992.


 
   (e) Resolutions establishing terms of 6.875% Notes Due 1999 and 7.40% Notes
       Due 2002--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's
       Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K for
       the year ending December 31, 1992.

   (f) Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and 6.30%
       Notes Due 2004--incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4(c) and 4(d) of 
       the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
       on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.

   (g) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 8% Cumulative Perpetual
       Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value--incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       4(a) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
       ended September 30, 1992 (the "Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q").

   (h) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 6 1/4% Cumulative
       Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value--incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.
       
   (i) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's Series C Cumulative
       Preferred Stock--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
       Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

   (j) Registration Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between the
       Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc.--incorporated by reference to
       exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

   (k) Registration rights agreement by and among the Registrant and certain
       affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. (including Patrick G. Ryan and
       Andrew J. McKenna)--incorporated by reference to Exhibit (f) to the 1982
       Form 10-K.

   (l) Deferred Compensation Agreement by and among the Registrant and
       Registrant's directors who are not salaried employees of Registrant or
       Registrant's affiliates--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
       the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
       on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 1987 ("1987 Form 10-K").

   (m) Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of November 4, 1991 among the
       Registrant and each of Patrick G. Ryan, Shirley Ryan, Ryan Enterprises
       Corporation and Harvey N. Medvin--incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

   (n) Statement regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings.

   (o) Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

   (p) Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed
       Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

   (q) Aon Corporation 1994 Amended and Restated Outside Director Stock Award
       Plan--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter
       1994 Form 10-Q.

   (r) Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the year ended
       December 31, 1994 (for information, and not to be deemed filed, except
       for those portions specifically incorporated by reference herein).

   (s) List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.

   (t) Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by reference into
       Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of their report included in the 1994
       Annual Report to Stockholders and into Aon's Registration Statement Nos.
       2-79114, 2-82791, 33-27984, 33-42575, and 33-57562.


 
   (u) Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 11-K
       for the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December 31, 1994--to be
       filed by amendment as provided in Rule 15d-21(b).

   (v) Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

       (A) Aon Stock Option Plan--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of
           the 1990 Form 10-K.

       (B) First Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan--incorporated by reference
           to the Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
           for the quarter ending June 30, 1994 (the "Second Quarter 1994 Form
           10-Q").

       (C) Second Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan--incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 10(c) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

       (D) 1994 Restatement of Aon Savings Plan.

       (E) 1994 Restatement of Aon Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

       (F) Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. Stock Option Plan together with Stock
           Option Assumption Agreement providing for amendment of the plan--
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement
           No. 2-79114 on Form S-8.

       (G) Aon Stock Award Plan, as amended--incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 10(a) to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

       (H) First Amendment to the Aon Stock Award Plan--incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

       (I) Second Amendment to Aon Stock Award Plan--incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 10(d) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

       (J) 1994 Restatement of Aon Pension Plan.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     The Registrant filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter
of the Registrant's year ended December 31, 1994.


 
                                   SIGNATURES


     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 17TH DAY OF
MARCH, 1995.

                                         Aon Corporation

 

                                         By        /s/PATRICK G. RYAN     
                                           --------------------------------   
                                           Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman, President
                                           and Chief Executive Officer

 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.


        SIGNATURE                        TITLE                        DATE
        ---------                        -----                        ----


   /s/PATRICK G. RYAN         Chairman, President, Chief          March 17, 1995
------------------------      Executive Officer and Director
     Patrick G. Ryan          (Principal Executive Officer)



  /s/DANIEL T. CARROLL        Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
     Daniel T. Carroll



  /s/FRANKLIN A. COLE         Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
     Franklin A. Cole


   /s/PERRY J. LEWIS          Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
      Perry J. Lewis


   /s/JOAN D. MANLEY          Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
      Joan D. Manley
 

  /s/ANDREW J. MCKENNA        Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
    Andrew J. McKenna


 
  /s/NEWTON N. MINOW          Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
     Newton N. Minow



   /s/PEER PEDERSEN           Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
     Peer Pedersen



  /s/DONALD S. PERKINS        Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
    Donald S. Perkins


 /s/JOHN W. ROGERS, JR.       Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
   John W. Rogers, Jr.


 /s/GEORGE A. SCHAEFER        Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
   George A. Schaefer


 /s/RAYMOND I. SKILLING       Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
   Raymond I. Skilling


 /s/JOHN E. SWEARINGEN        Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
   John E. Swearingen


   /s/FRED L. TURNER          Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
     Fred L. Turner


  /s/ARNOLD R. WEBER          Director                            March 17, 1995
------------------------
    Arnold R. Weber



  /s/HARVEY N. MEDVIN         Executive Vice President,           March 17, 1995
-----------------------       Chief Financial Officer and 
   Harvey N. Medvin           Treasurer (Principal Financial 
                              and Accounting Officer)


 

                                                                  SCHEDULE I

                       Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries

                  CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS - OTHER
                      THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                            AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1994

 

*Differences between amortized cost and amounts shown in Statement of Financial
 Position result from certain valuation allowances.


 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                  CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

 

                 See notes to condensed financial statements.



                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                                                                     (Continued)
                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                        CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

 
================================================================================

(1) Operating and administrative expenses include employee benefit plan credits 
    of $3.4 million and a tax credit of $9.3 million in 1992.


                 See notes to condensed financial statements.



 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                                                                     (Continued)

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                      CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

 

                 See notes to condensed financial statements.



                                                                    SCHEDULE II
                                                                    (Continued)

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(1)  See notes to consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference
     from the Annual Report.


(2)  Payments made as assessments by state guaranty funds to cover losses to
     policyholders of insurance companies under regulatory supervision for the
     years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 were $6.9 million, $5.8
     million and $3.6 million, respectively. In addition, Aon's reserve for the
     recognition of probable assessments for known industry insolvencies was
     $9.9 million and $12.7 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.


(3)  Generally, the net assets of Aon's insurance subsidiaries available for
     transfer to the parent company are limited to the amounts that the
     insurance subsidiaries' statutory net assets exceed minimum statutory
     capital requirements; however, payment of the amounts as dividends in
     excess of $286 million may be subject to approval by regulatory
     authorities.


(4)  During 1993, Aon Corporation (Parent Company) reclassified $269 million of
     investments in subsidiaries to notes receivable--subsidiaries related to
     the finalization of the purchase price allocation for the 1992 acquisition
     of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Frank B. Hall,
     Inc.





                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                                                                     (Continued)

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATMENTS

    (5)  Below is a reconciliation of the combined statutory stockholders'
         equity of Aon's insurance subsidiaries to the consolidated
         stockholders' equity on a basis in accordance with generally accepted
         accounting principles (GAAP):
 
 
 
* net of intercompany dividends




                                                                    SCHEDULE III

                       Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries

                      SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION


 
----------------
(1) Includes cost of insurance purchased.

(2) The above results reflect allocations of investment income and certain
    expense elements considered reasonable under the circumstances.

(3) Net of reinsurance ceded.

(4) Net of reinsurance ceded in 1992.

(5) Interest expense incurred on investment-type policies for the years ended
    December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 amounted to $248.2 million, $248.5
    million, and $256.3 million, respectively.


                                                                     SCHEDULE IV

                       Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
                                  REINSURANCE

 

 

 

(1)  Includes credit life insurance.

(2)  Includes mechanical repair insurance sold through automobile dealers,
     appliance warranty insurance and property liability insurance.





                                                                      SCHEDULE V
                                Aon CORPORATION
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                 Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

 

(1)  Accounts deemed to be uncollectible.
(2)  Amounts shown in additions charged to other accounts represent realized
     investment losses.
(3)  Amounts shown in additions charged to other accounts represent reserves
     related to acquired business.



 
                        Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                          to General Instruction G(4)



       (3) Articles of incorporation and bylaws:


 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
-------------                                                     --------------

           (a) Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant--
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

           (b) Certificate of Amendment of the Registrant's Second Restated
               Certificate of Incorporation - incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ending March 31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form
               10-Q).


           (c) Bylaws of the Registrant--incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               (d) to the 1982 Form 10-K.

           (d) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 8% Cumulative
               Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value -- incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Registrants Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1992 (the "Third
               Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q").

           (e) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 6 1/4%
               Cumulative Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par
               value -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Third
               Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

           (f) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's Series C
               Cumulative Preferred Stock - incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
               February 9, 1994.

     (4) Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
         indentures:
 
           (a) Indenture dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant and
               Continental Bank Corporation (now known as Bank of America
               Illinois), as Trustee--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)
               of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
               September 23, 1992.

           (b) Resolutions establishing terms of 6.875% Notes Due 1999 and
               7.40% Notes Due 2002 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d)
               to the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange
               Commission on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 1992.
 
           (c) Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Registrant's
               Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form
               10-K for the year ending December 31, 1993 (the "1993 Form 
               10-K").

           (d) Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.30% Notes Due 2004
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the 1993 Form 10-K.


 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
-------------                                                     --------------

 
     (10)  Material Contracts:

           (a) Aon Stock Option Plan-incorporated by reference to 
               Exhibit 10(a) to the 1990 Form 10-K.

           (b) First Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan - 
               incorporated by reference to the Exhibit 10(a) to 
               Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
               quarter ending June 30, 1994 (the "Second Quarter 
               1994 Form 10-Q").

           (c) Second Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan - 
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the 
               Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.


           (d) Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. Stock Option Plan 
               together with Stock Option Assumption Agreement 
               providing for amendment of the plan--incorporated 
               by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Registration 
               Statement No. 2-79114 on Form S-8.

           (e) Registration Rights Agreement by and among the 
               Registrant and certain affiliates of Ryan Insurance 
               Group, Inc. (including Patrick G. Ryan and Andrew J. 
               McKenna)--incorporated by reference to Exhibit (f) 
               to the 1982 Form 10-K.

           (f) 1994 Restatement of Aon Savings Plan.                     32

           (g) 1994 Restatement of Aon Employee Stock Ownership Plan.   124

           (h) 1994 Restatement of Aon Pension Plan.                    192

           (i) Deferred Compensation Agreement by and among 
               Registrant and Registrant's directors who are not 
               salaried employees of Registrant or Registrant's 
               affiliates--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
               10(i) to the 1987 Form 10-K.

           (j) Aon Stock Award Plan, as amended - incorporated by 
               reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the First Quarter 1994 
               Form 10-Q.

           (k) Amendment and Waiver Agreement Dated as of November 4, 
               1991 among the Registrant and each of Patrick G. 
               Ryan, Shirley Ryan, Ryan Enterprises Corporation and 
               Harvey N. Medvin -- incorporated by reference to 
               Exhibit 10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

           (l) Registration Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 
               by and between the Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co.
               Inc. -- incorporated by reference to exhibit 4(c) to
               the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Number                                                    Page Number of
Regulation                                                        Sequentially
S-K, Item 601                                                     Numbered Copy
-------------                                                     --------------
 
            (m) Aon Corporation 1994 Amended and Restated Outside 
                Director Stock Award Plan - incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter 
                1994 Form 10-Q.
 

      (11) Statement regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings.       283


      (12) Statements regarding Computation of Ratios.

           (a)  Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings
                to Fixed Charges.                                       284

           (b)  Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings
                to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock 
                Dividends.                                              285
 

      (13) Annual Report of Stockholders of the Registrant for the 
           year ended December 31, 1994 (for information, and not 
           to be deemed filed, except for those portions specifically
           incorporated by reference herein).     

      (21) List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.                      286

      (23) Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by 
           reference into Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
           their report included in the 1994 Annual Report to 
           Stockholders and into Aon's Registration Statement
           Nos. 2-79114, 2-82791, 33-27984, 33-42575 and 33-57562.      297

      (99) Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
           on Form 11-K for the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended
           December 31, 1994 -- to be filed by amendment as provided 
           in Rule 15d-21(b).


