
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
  [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                      OR
  [_]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-7933

                                Aon CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
            
                             ---------------------

                DELAWARE                                      36-3051915    
    (State or Other Jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer 
     Incorporation or Organization)                      Identification No.) 
        123 NORTH WACKER DRIVE,                                 60606       
           CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                  (Zip Code)     
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
             (312) 701-3000
           (Telephone Number)
                                                                          
                             --------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                     NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
           TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        ON WHICH REGISTERED
- ------------------------------------------          ------------------------
        Common Stock, $1 par value                  New York Stock Exchange*
 8% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock            New York Stock Exchange
6-1/4% Cumulative Convertible Exchangeable
             Preferred Stock                        New York Stock Exchange
          6.875% Notes Due 1999                     New York Stock Exchange
           7.40% Notes Due 2002                     New York Stock Exchange
 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE
 *The Common Stock of the Registrant is also listed for trading on the Chicago
         Stock Exchange and The International Stock Exchange London.

                             --------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  YES  [X]   NO  [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements,
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28, 1996 was $4,575,244,569.

Number of shares of $1.00 par value Common Stock outstanding as of February 28,
1996: 108,413,284.

         DOCUMENTS FROM WHICH INFORMATION IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

 Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 1995 (Parts I, II
                                    and IV)
  Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C Cumulative
                                   Preferred
 Stock and Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 19, 1996
                          of the Registrant (Part III)

================================================================================

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.


  The Registrant is an insurance holding company. Incorporated in 1979, it is
the parent corporation of long established and more recently formed companies.
In early 1996, one of the Registrant's wholly-owned subsidiaries, Rollins Hudig
Hall Group, Inc. changed its name to Aon Group, Inc. ("Aon Group"). Several of
Aon Group's subsidiaries also changed their names in early 1996 including Aon
Risk Services Companies, Inc. (formerly Rollins Hudig Hall Co.); Aon Holdings bv
(formerly Rollins Hudig Hall Holdings bv); and Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc.
(formerly Godwins International, Inc.). These newly named corporations join Aon
Specialty Group, Inc.; Aon Re Worldwide, Inc.; and Nicholson Leslie Group
Limited to comprise Aon Group. Aon Group and its subsidiaries provide
reinsurance intermediary services, benefits consulting and commercial insurance
brokerage services.

  In fourth quarter 1995, the Registrant and Combined Insurance Company of
America ("Combined Insurance") executed definitive agreements to sell two of
Combined Insurance's insurance subsidiaries, Union Fidelity Life Insurance
Company ("UFLIC") and The Life Insurance Company of Virginia ("LOV"). The
parties have received the necessary regulatory consents, and the sales of these
two subsidiaries are expected to close on or around April 1,1996.

  Combined Insurance and Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. engage in the marketing of
life and accident and health insurance products. Ryan Insurance Group, Inc.;
Virginia Surety Company, Inc.; and London General Insurance Company Limited,
also subsidiaries of the Registrant, offer extended warranty and specialty
insurance products. Beginning in fourth quarter 1995, all insurance underwriting
operations are presented as one segment and primarily include life, accident and
health insurance and extended warranty products.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the four inside cover pages
and pages 6 and 7 of the Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the
Year 1995 ("Annual Report").


COMPETITION AND INDUSTRY POSITION


(1) INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND CONSULTING SERVICES

  Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc. ("Aon Risk Services Companies"); Aon
Holdings bv ("Aon Holdings"); Aon Specialty Group, Inc. ("Aon Specialty Group");
Aon Consulting Worldwide, Inc. ("Aon Consulting"); Aon Re Worldwide, Inc. ("Aon
Re"); and Nicholson Leslie Group Limited ("Nicholson Leslie").


  Aon Group, Inc. ("Aon Group"), formerly Rollins Hudig Hall Group, Inc., is the
holding company for the Registrant's commercial brokerage and consulting
operation. Aon Group is the second largest brokerage and consulting services
firm in the world. The Aon Group companies have more than 350 offices around the
world and employ approximately 14,000 professionals and support personnel who
serve the diverse needs of clients.

  Aon Risk Services Companies' (formerly Rollins Hudig Hall Co.) subsidiaries
operate in a highly competitive industry and compete with a large number of
retail insurance brokerage and agency firms as well as individual brokers and
agents and direct writers of insurance coverage. Aon Risk Services Companies'
subsidiaries offer comprehensive services to clients including insurance
placement, specialized brokerage services, program development and
administration, premium financing services, risk management and loss control
consulting. It has also developed certain specialist niche areas such as marine,
aviation, directors and officers liability, financial institutions,
construction, energy, municipalities, media, entertainment and fine art.



 
  Aon Holdings (formerly Rollins Hudig Hall Holdings bv) traces its commercial
broking roots to 1688 and is one of the premier brokers in Continental Europe
with more than 90 offices and approximately 3,000 employees. Aon Holdings has
subsidiaries in more than 30 countries and, in 1995, acquired the remaining
interest in a joint venture that owns a network of insurance broking offices in
Southeast Asia.

  Subsidiaries of Aon Risk Services Companies and Aon Holdings operate through
owned offices in North America and Europe, as well as in Latin America and
Asia/Pacific. In 1995, Aon Holdings subsidiaries opened offices in Australia,
Germany, France, Denmark, Belgium, Ireland, Sweden, Spain, Portugal, The
Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The Registrant became the latest insurance
organization licensed to open a representative office in Beijing, China, in
1995.

  Aon Specialty Group addresses the highly specialized product development,
consulting and administrative needs of professional groups, service businesses,
governments, health care providers and commercial organizations nationwide. It
also provides specialized managing general underwriting and wholesale brokerage
services for insurance organizations. Aon Specialty Group operating
subsidiaries' market and broker both the primary and reinsurance risks of these
programs. Aon Direct Group is Aon Specialty Group's primary direct marketer of
specialty insurance products for associations and affinity groups.

  Media/Professional (MPI), a subsidiary of Aon Specialty Group, is one of the
largest brokers of libel and other insurance to the broadcast and print media in
the United States. Its Bankers Insurance Service Corp. subsidiary is an
underwriting manager that serves the mortgage banking industry. Its Scarborough
& Co. subsidiary provides similar underwriting services to community banks,
mortgage and savings institutions.

  Subsidiaries of Aon Consulting (formerly Godwins International, Inc.) and the
European benefits operations of Aon Holdings serve the employee benefit needs
of clients around the world. Aon Consulting is one of the world's largest
integrated human resources consulting organizations.

  In the United States, the benefits environment continues to change as
companies look for ways to manage their benefits costs while increasing the
choices offered to their employees. Aon Consulting, with its expertise in all
areas of benefits and compensation, and its access to the Registrant's other
subsidiaries, is well-positioned to serve this market. Existing business
continues to be influenced by a sluggish benefits consulting environment in the
United States. Benefits issues in foreign countries are becoming more
complicated, and Aon Holdings and Aon Consulting anticipate increased demand for
their services in these markets.

  The late-1994 acquisition of HRStrategies Inc. marked an important expansion
for Aon Consulting. HRStrategies specializes in human resources strategy
development, employee selection, and identification and development of employee
skills and skills assessment systems. In 1995, Aon Consulting acquired Hutchison
& Associates, Inc. This acquisition strengthens the nationwide capabilities,
client base and service range of Aon Consulting and also integrates the various
aspects of the benefits consulting and human resource fields. As employers
contend with increased competition for skilled workers, the ability to identify,
motivate and compensate those workers becomes increasingly important.

  Aon Re is the second largest reinsurance intermediary in the world. Aon Re
serves the alternative market with reinsurance placement, alternative risk
services, captive management services and catastrophe information forecasting.
In 1993, Aon Re was formed as a holding company to coordinate all reinsurance
operations. Agricultural Risk Management Limited in London, specializing in the
evaluation of agricultural risk, was acquired in early 1995.

  Nicholson Leslie is a London-based Lloyd's broker that places wholesale and
reinsurance business in the London and international markets and serves the
needs of a wide range of clients around the world. A majority of Nicholson
Leslie's revenue is derived from sources unaffiliated with Aon. The late-1994
acquisition of Lloyd's broker Jenner Fenton Slade Group Limited (JFS) expanded
the Registrant's expertise in the area of energy insurance.


 
(2) INSURANCE UNDERWRITING


  Combined Insurance Company of America ("Combined Insurance"); Combined Life
Insurance Company of New York ("CLICNY"); Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. ("Ryan");
Virginia Surety Company, Inc. ("VSC"); and London General Insurance Company
Limited ("London General").
 

  Following the Registrant's and Combined Insurance's execution in late 1995 of
definitive agreements to sell Combined Insurance's direct response life and
health subsidiary, Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company ("UFLIC") and Combined
Insurance's capital accumulation insurance subsidiary, The Life Insurance
Company of Virginia ("LOV"), the Registrant reclassified its operating segments
to reflect the focus of its continuing operations. Beginning in fourth quarter
1995, all insurance underwriting operations are presented as one segment based
on the related nature, distribution channels and markets of the continuing
products.

  The Registrant's insurance underwriting subsidiaries are part of a highly
competitive industry that serves individual consumers in North America, Europe,
Latin America and Asia/Pacific by providing accident and health coverage,
traditional life insurance, extended warranties and credit insurance through
global distribution networks that are directly owned by the Registrant's
subsidiaries.

  The accident and health distribution network encompasses the agents of
Combined Insurance and the automobile dealers that market the products of Ryan.
With more than five million policyholders, Combined Insurance has more
individual accident and health policies in force than any other United States
company. Combined Insurance, the Registrant's principal accident and health
insurer, has a direct sales force of several thousand career agents calling on
individuals to sell a broad spectrum of accident and health products. It is one
of the few companies with agents that call on customers every six months to
renew coverage and to sell additional coverage. Combined Insurance offers a wide
range of accident-only and sickness-only insurance products, including short-
term disability, cancer aid, Medicare supplement and disability income coverage.
Combined Insurance's products are primarily fixed indemnity obligations, thereby
not subject to escalating medical costs. Combined Insurance offers a simplified
accident and sickness long-term disability policy.

  Combined Insurance and its wholly-owned subsidiary CLICNY (which operates
exclusively in the State of New York) market whole life products through direct
sales career agents in the United States. Combined Insurance ranked among the
top 100 life insurance companies in the United States in terms of total life
premiums in 1994. Life insurance business is conducted by the Registrant's life
insurance subsidiaries in 49 states, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland,
Germany, Australia and New Zealand.

  Ryan is a major marketer of extended warranties and credit-related life and
disability products for the automotive industry. In January 1995, Globe Life
Insurance Company was merged with Combined Insurance. Ryan subsidiaries operate
in a highly competitive industry, competing against numerous insurers and
insurance agents engaged in selling credit life and disability insurance,
including some which also provide finance and consulting services to automobile
dealers. Substantially all of the credit insurance sold by Ryan subsidiaries is
generated through dealers who have no legal obligation or commitment to continue
as agents for Ryan and are free to terminate such relationships and act as
agents for, and place insurance with, Ryan's competitors.

  The Registrant's extended warranty and specialty insurance business, conducted
by subsidiaries VSC in North America and London General in Europe, is composed
primarily of extended warranty insurance products, professional liability
insurance coverages, workers' compensation and specialty financial institution
coverages. VSC and London General continue to be one of the world's largest
underwriters of consumer extended warranties. Ryan's automobile warranty
products are sold in the United Kingdom,



 
Ireland, France, The Netherlands, Belgium and Spain. Aon Warranty Group handles
the administration of certain extended warranty products on automobiles,
electronic goods, personal computers and appliances. It serves manufacturers,
distributors and wholesalers in North America and in Europe.



(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

  The Life Insurance Company of Virginia ("LOV") and Union Fidelity Life
Insurance Company ("UFLIC").


  In fourth quarter 1995, the Registrant and Combined Insurance executed
definitive agreements to sell Combined Insurance's insurance subsidiaries, LOV
and UFLIC. The parties have received the necessary regulatory consents, and the
sales of these two subsidiaries are expected to close on or around April 1,
1996. Their results are therefore classified in the consolidated statements of
income in the Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the Year 1995
as discontinued operations.
 
  The business written by LOV primarily includes capital accumulation products
and some other life products. UFLIC operates in the United States in the highly
competitive direct response life and health marketing segment of the industry.


LICENSING AND REGULATION

  Insurance companies must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions
in which they do business. These laws and regulations are designed to ensure
financial solvency of insurance companies and to require fair and adequate
service and treatment for policyholders. They are enforced by the states in the
United States, by industry self-regulating agencies in the United Kingdom, and
by various regulatory agencies in other countries through the granting and
revoking of licenses to do business, licensing of agents, monitoring of trade
practices, policy form approval, minimum loss ratio requirements, limits on
premium and commission rates, and minimum reserve and capital requirements.
Compliance is monitored by the state insurance departments through periodic
regulatory reporting procedures and periodic examinations. The quarterly and
annual financial reports to the regulators in the United States utilize
accounting principles which are different from the generally accepted accounting
principles used in stockholders' reports. The statutory accounting principles,
in keeping with the intent to assure the protection of policyholders, are based,
in general, on a liquidation concept while generally accepted accounting
principles are based on a going-concern concept.

  The state insurance regulators are members of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). This Association seeks to promote uniformity
of, and to enhance the state regulation of, insurance. Both the NAIC and the
individual states continue to focus on the solvency of insurance companies. This
focus is reflected in additional regulatory oversight by the states and emphasis
on the enactment or adoption of a series of NAIC model laws and regulations
designed to promote solvency. The increase in any solvency-related oversight by
the states will not have any significant impact on the insurance business of the
Registrant.

  Several years ago, the NAIC developed a formula for analyzing insurers called
risk based capital ("RBC"). RBC is intended to establish "minimum" capital
threshold levels that vary with the size and mix of a company's business. It is
designed to identify companies with the capital levels that may require
regulatory attention. RBC does not have any significant impact on the insurance
business of the Registrant.


 
  Insurance companies are generally not subject to any federal regulation of
their insurance business because of the existence of a federal law commonly
known as the McCarran-Ferguson Act. McCarran-Ferguson provides the insurance
industry with immunity from certain aspects of the federal anti-trust law and
exempts the business of insurance from federal regulation. In the past several
years there have been a number of recommendations that McCarran-Ferguson be
repealed entirely or modified to remove the industry's anti-trust exemption and
subject it to federal regulation. If McCarran-Ferguson were to be repealed or
modified, state regulation of the insurance business would continue. The result
could be an additional layer of federal regulation. The Registrant expects that
any repeal of anti-trust exemptions available to insurers under the McCarran-
Ferguson Act would not have a significant impact on its operations.

  The state insurance holding company laws require prior notice to and approval
of the domestic state insurance department of intracorporate transfers of assets
within the holding company structure, including the payment of dividends by
insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, sales of credit insurance by Ryan's
agents and premium finance loans by Cananwill, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Registrant, are subject to one or more of truth-in-lending and
credit regulations, insurance premium finance acts, retail installment sales
acts and other similar consumer protection legislation. Failure to comply with
such laws or regulations can result in the temporary suspension or permanent
loss of the right to engage in business in a particular jurisdiction as well as
other penalties.

  Regulatory authorities in the states in which the operating subsidiaries of
Aon Group conduct business may require individual or company licensing to act as
brokers, agents, third party administrators, managing general agents,
reinsurance intermediaries or adjusters. Under the laws of most states,
regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to
granting, renewing and revoking brokers' and agents' licenses to transact
business in the state. The manner of operating in particular states may vary
according to the licensing requirements of the particular state, which may
require, among other things, that a firm operate in the state through a local
corporation. In a few states, licenses are issued only to individual residents
or locally-owned business entities. In such cases, Aon Group subsidiaries have
arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the state.

  There continues to be activity in the area of health care reform at the state
levels in the United States. Numerous states have had legislation introduced to
reform the health care system and such legislation has passed in several states.
While it is impossible to forecast the precise nature of future state health
care changes, the Registrant does not expect a major impact on its operations
because of the supplemental nature of most of the policies issued by its
insurance subsidiaries and because the coverages are primarily purchased to
provide, on a fixed-indemnity basis, protection against loss-of-time or
disability benefits. If health care reform does not provide for a significant
role for insurance companies currently writing primary medical coverage, the
Registrant expects that some of those companies would increase their
participation in other segments of the insurance underwriting business, perhaps
heightening the competition with Combined Insurance. Combined Insurance and its
subsidiaries currently operate successfully in several foreign countries which
have national health plans in effect.


MORTGAGE LOANS AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS

  Mortgage loans and real estate investments held by the Registrants'
subsidiaries at December 31, 1995 were $632 million and $36.5 million,
respectively. Approximately 95% of these mortgage loans and substantially all of
the real estate investments at December 31, 1995 are held by LOV. Commercial
mortgage loans represent over 98% of total mortgage loans at December 31, 1995.
Mortgage loans and real estate in the South Atlantic region totaled $320 million
and $25.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 1995. The five states carrying
the highest concentrations of these mortgage loans and real estate investments
are listed below by each category.



 
(millions)



CAPITAL ACCUMULATION INVESTMENT TYPE CONTRACTS

  Investment-type contracts (as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 97) are annuities (approximately 77% are single premium deferred
annuities) and guaranteed investment contracts. These investment-type contracts
primarily relate to discontinued operations. Significant terms and conditions of
these contracts are described below.

  SINGLE PREMIUM DEFERRED ANNUITIES (SPDAS): The Registrant's insurance
subsidiaries had approximately $1.7 billion of SPDA reserves in force at
December 31, 1995. SPDAs are single premium accumulation vehicles with one,
three or five year interest rate guarantees, after which declared one year
guaranteed renewal rates are set based on prevailing economic conditions. There
is a minimum guaranteed interest rate of 4% on most policies.

  GUARANTEED INVESTMENT CONTRACTS (GICS): The Registrant's insurance
subsidiaries had approximately $1.7 billion in GIC contracts outstanding at
December 31, 1995. Of these, 76% are fixed rate contracts originally written
with a maturity from two to six years. The average maturity of the fixed rate
GIC pool was 2.2 years at December 31, 1995. The remaining 24% of the GICs are
variable rate contracts which have rates that float monthly based on an index
relating to money market yields.

  Most of the GICs are benefit sensitive to varying degrees. As of December 31,
1995, most GIC contracts were for the benefit of qualified retirement plans. The
terms of these investment type contracts are typical of similar products sold by
competitors.


CLIENTELE

  No significant part of the Registrant's or its subsidiaries' business is
dependent upon a single client or on a few clients, the loss of any one of which
would have a material adverse effect on the Registrant.


EMPLOYEES

  The Registrant's subsidiaries had approximately 27,000 employees at the end of
1995 of whom approximately two-thirds are salaried and hourly employees and the
remaining one-third are sales representatives who are generally compensated
wholly or primarily by commission. Employees included in the Registrant's
discontinued operations represent less than 10% of the total at the end of 1995.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

  The Registrant's subsidiaries own and occupy office buildings in nine states
and certain foreign countries, and lease office space elsewhere in the United
States and in various foreign cities. Loss of the



 
use of any owned or leased property, while potentially disruptive, would have no
material impact on the Registrant.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 12 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 32 of the Annual Report.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

  None.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Executive officers of the Registrant are regularly elected by its Board of
Directors at the annual meeting of the Board which is held following each annual
meeting of the stockholders of the Registrant. The executive officers of the
Registrant were elected to their current positions on April 20, 1995 to serve
until the meeting of the Board following the annual meeting of stockholders on
April 19, 1996. Ages shown are as of December 31, 1995.

  For information concerning certain executive officers of the Registrant, see
item 10 below. As of March 29, 1996, the following individuals are also
executive officers of the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f):


 


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS.

  The Registrant's $1.00 par value common shares ("Common Shares") are traded on
the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges.  The Registrant hereby
incorporates by reference the "Dividends paid per share" and "Price range" data
on page 35 of the Annual Report.

  The Registrant had approximately 13,400 holders of record of its Common Shares
as of February 28, 1996.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference note 8 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 27 and 28 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the "Selected Financial Data"
table on page 34 of the Annual Report.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference "Management's Analysis of
Operating Results and Financial Condition" on pages 9 through 15 of the Annual
Report.


 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the following statements, 
notes and data from the Annual Report.



ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENT WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

  Not Applicable.


 
                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information on pages 3 and
7 of the Notice of Annual Meeting of Holders of Common Stock and Series C
Preferred Stock and Proxy Statement For Annual Meeting of the Stockholders on
April 19, 1996, of the Registrant ("Proxy Statement") concerning the following
Directors of the Registrant, each of whom also serves as an executive officer of
the Registrant as defined in Rule 16a-1(f): Patrick G. Ryan and Raymond I.
Skilling.  Information concerning additional executive officers of the
Registrant is contained in Part I hereof, pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information under the
headings "Executive Compensation," "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal
Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Option Grants in 1995 Fiscal Year" and
"Pension Plan Table" on pages 13 through 15 of the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the share ownership data
contained on pages 2, 8 and 9 of the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
  
  The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference the information under the
heading "Transactions With Management" on page 20 of the Proxy Statement.
  

 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)(1) AND (2). The Registrant has incorporated by reference from the Annual
Report (see Item 8) the following consolidated financial statements of the
Registrant and subsidiaries:
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
(a)(3). Exhibits

    (a) Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant --
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Registrant's Annual
        Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K for the
        year ended December 31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

    (b) Certificate of Amendment of the Registrant's Second Restated Certificate
        of Incorporation--incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the
        Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
        31, 1994 (the "First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q").

    (c) Bylaws of the Registrant -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit (d) to
        the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 (the "1982 Form 
        10-K").


 
    (d) Indenture dated September 15, 1992 between the Registrant and
        Continental Bank Corporation (now known as Bank of America Illinois), as
        Trustee -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Registrant's
        Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 23, 1992.

    (e) Resolutions establishing terms of 6.875% Notes Due 1999 and 7.40% Notes
        Due 2002 -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the
        Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 (the "1992 Form 10-K").

    (f) Resolutions establishing the terms of 6.70% Notes Due 2003 and 6.30%
        Notes Due 2004 incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4(c) and 4(d) of
        the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (the "1993 Form 
        10-K").

    (g) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 8% Cumulative Perpetual
        Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        4(a) to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended September 30, 1992 (the "Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q").

    (h) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's 6 1/4% Cumulative
        Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value -- 
        incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form
        10-Q.
 
    (i) Certificate of Designation for the Registrant's Series C Cumulative
        Preferred Stock -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
        Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 1994.

    (j) Registration Rights Agreement dated November 2, 1992 by and between the
        Registrant and Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. -- incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4(c) to the Third Quarter 1992 Form 10-Q.

    (k) Registration rights agreement by and among the Registrant and certain
        affiliates of Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. (including Patrick G. Ryan and
        Andrew J. McKenna) -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit (f) to the
        1982 Form 10-K.

    (l) Deferred Compensation Agreement by and among the Registrant and
        Registrant's directors who are not salaried employees of Registrant or
        Registrant's affiliates -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to
        the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission
        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987 (the "1987 Form 
        10-K").

    (m) Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of November 4, 1991 among the
        Registrant and each of Patrick G. Ryan, Shirley Ryan, Ryan Enterprises
        Corporation and Harvey N. Medvin -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10(j) to the 1991 Form 10-K.

    (n) Statement regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings.

    (o) Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    (p) Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed
        Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.

    (q) Aon Corporation 1994 Amended and Restated Outside Director Stock Award
        Plan -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the First Quarter
        1994 Form 10-Q.

    (r) Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for the year ended
        December 31, 1995 (for information, and not to be deemed filed, except
        for those portions specifically incorporated by reference herein).


 
    (s) List of subsidiaries of the Registrant.

    (t) Consent of Ernst & Young LLP to the incorporation by reference into
        Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K of its report included in the 1995
        Annual Report to Stockholders and into Aon's Registration Statement Nos.
        2-79114, 2-82791, 33-27984, 33-42575, 33-57562, and 33-59037.

    (u) Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 11-K for
        the Aon Savings Plan for the year ended December 31, 1995 -- to be filed
        by amendment as provided in Rule 15d-21(b).

    (v) Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

        (A) Aon Stock Option Plan -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
            to the Registrant's Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange
            Commission on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 (the
            "1990 Form 10-K").

        (B) First Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan -- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 (the "Second Quarter 1994
            Form 10-Q").

        (C) Second Amendment to Aon Stock Option Plan -- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

        (D) 1994 Restatement of Aon Savings Plan -- incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(f) of the 1994 Form 10-K.

        (E) 1994 Restatement of Aon Employee Stock Ownership Plan -- 
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of the 1994 Form 10-K.

        (F) Ryan Insurance Group, Inc. Stock Option Plan together with Stock
            Option Assumption Agreement providing for amendment of the plan --
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement
            No. 2-79114 on Form S-8.

        (G) Aon Stock Award Plan, as amended -- incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(a) to the First Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

        (H) First Amendment to the Aon Stock Award Plan -- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

        (I) Second Amendment to Aon Stock Award Plan -- incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Second Quarter 1994 Form 10-Q.

        (J) 1994 Restatement of Aon Pension Plan -- incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(h) of the 1994 Form 10-K.

        (K) Aon Corporation 1995 Senior Officer Incentive Compensation Plan.

        (L) Aon Deferred Compensation Plan and First Amendment to the Aon 
            Deferred Compensation Plan.

    (w) Asset Purchase Agreement dated July 24, 1992 between the Registrant and
        Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc. -- incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
        to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
        June 30, 1992.



 
    (x) Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant, Combined Insurance
        Company of America, Union Fidelity Life Insurance Company and General
        Electric Capital Corporation dated as of November 11, 1995.

    (y) Stock Purchase Agreement by and among the Registrant; Combined Insurance
        Company of America; The Life Insurance Company of Virginia; Forth
        Financial Resources, Ltd.; Newco Properties, Inc.; and General Electric
        Capital Corporation dated as of December 22, 1995.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

    The Registrant filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K during the last
quarter of the Registrant's year ended December 31, 1995.



 
                                   SIGNATURES


          PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 29TH DAY OF
MARCH, 1996.

                                       Aon Corporation

 

                                       By  /s/PATRICK G. RYAN
                                         --------------------------------
                                         Patrick G. Ryan, Chairman, President
                                         and Chief Executive Officer

 
          PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.

 



 

 

                                                              SCHEDULE I
    
                       Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
    
                  CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS - OTHER
                      THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                            AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1995
 

* The fair value for fixed maturity and equity securities relating to the
  discontinued operations are based on the underlying purchase agreements.
  Differences between amortized costs and amounts shown in Statements of
  Financial Position for investments other than fixed maturity and equity
  securities result from certain valuation allowances.
    


                                                         SCHEDULE II

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                  CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
 

                  See notes to condensed financial statements.


 
                                                                SCHEDULE II
                                                                (Continued)
                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                        CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  See notes to condensed financial statements

(1) Interest expense - other allocated to discontinued operations was $18
    million, $14 million and $13 million for the years ended December 31, 1995,
    1994 and 1993, respectively.


 

                                                                    SCHEDULE II
                                                                    (Continued)


                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                      CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

 
                                                  

                   See notes to condensed financial statements.



 
                                                                    SCHEDULE II
                                                                    (Continued)

                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                   NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
    
(1) See notes to consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference
    from the Annual Report.
    
    
(2) Payments made as assessments by state guaranty funds to cover losses to
    policyholders of insurance companies under regulatory supervision for the
    years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 were $5 million, $6.9 million
    and $5.8 million, respectively. In addition, Aon's reserve for the
    recognition of probable assessments for known industry insolvencies was $7
    million and $9.9 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
    

(3) Generally, the net assets of Aon's insurance subsidiaries available for
    transfer to the parent company are limited to the amounts that the insurance
    subsidiaries' statutory net assets exceed minimum statutory capital
    requirements; however, payments of the amounts as dividends in excess of
    $297 million may be subject to approval by regulatory authorities.
    

 
    
                                Aon Corporation
                               (Parent Company)
                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    
    (4)  Below is a reconciliation of the combined statutory stockholders'
         equity and net income of Aon's insurance subsidiaries to the
         consolidated stockholders' equity and net income on a basis in
         accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):
    
                    (millions)
 
  
 


 
                                                                    SCHEDULE III

                       Aon Corporation and Subsidiaries
                      SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

 

(1) Income statement data has been reclassified to reflect continuing
    operations.

(2) Includes cost of insurance purchased.

(3) The above results reflect allocations of investment income and certain
    expense elements considered reasonable under the circumstances.

(4) Net of reinsurance ceded.



 

(1) Includes credit life insurance.
(2) Includes mechanical repair insurance sold through automobile dealers,
    appliance warranty insurance and property liability insurance.
(3) Income statement data has been reclassified to reflect continuing
    operations.


 
 



 
                        Cross Reference Sheet, Pursuant
                          to General Instruction G(4)



 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

 


 


 


