
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                        FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

            |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                             -----------------

                                       OR

          |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from _________ to _________

                         Commission File Number 0-24206
                                                -------

                           PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)




         Registrant's telephone number, including area code 610-373-2400
                                                            ------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                      None
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                      Common stock par value .01 per share
                      ------------------------------------
                                 Title of Class

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X   No 
                                        ---    ---





Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

            Aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by
                         nonaffiliates of the Registrant
              as of March 20, 1998 was approximately $156,302,075.

 Number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 20, 1998 - 15,155,830

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement with respect to Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 20, 1998.

THIS REPORT INCLUDES "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS" WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION
27A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, AS AMENDED. ALL STATEMENTS OTHER THAN STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FACTS
INCLUDED IN THIS REPORT LOCATED ELSEWHERE HEREIN REGARDING THE COMPANY'S
OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND BUSINESS STRATEGY, MAY CONSTITUTE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. IN ADDITION, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS GENERALLY
CAN BE IDENTIFIED BY THE USE OF FORWARD-LOOKING TERMINOLOGY SUCH AS "MAY,"
"WILL," "EXPECT," "INTEND," "ESTIMATE," "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE," OR "CONTINUE"
OR THE NEGATIVE THEREOF OR VARIATIONS THEREON OR SIMILAR TERMINOLOGY. ALTHOUGH
THE COMPANY BELIEVES THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE AT THIS TIME, IT CAN GIVE NO ASSURANCE THAT SUCH
EXPECTATIONS WILL PROVE TO HAVE BEEN CORRECT. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE
ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THE COMPANY'S EXPECTATIONS ("CAUTIONARY
STATEMENTS") ARE DISCLOSED IN THIS REPORT AND IN OTHER MATERIALS FILED WITH THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION. ALL SUBSEQUENT WRITTEN AND ORAL
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE COMPANY OR PERSONS ACTING ON ITS
BEHALF ARE EXPRESSLY QUALIFIED IN THEIR ENTIRETY BY THE CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS.

References to "Penn National Gaming" or the "Company" include Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and its subsidiaries.





                                     PART 1

ITEM 1  BUSINESS

GENERAL

         The Company, which began operations in 1972, is a diversified gaming
and pari-mutuel wagering company that owns and operates two racetracks and eight
off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs") in Pennsylvania, as well as an 89%
interest in an entertainment complex that includes a thoroughbred racetrack and
video gaming machines ("Gaming Machines") in Charles Town, West Virginia. The
Company's Pennsylvania racetracks include the Penn National Race Course, located
outside Harrisburg, one of two thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania, and
Pocono Downs, located outside Wilkes-Barre, one of two harness racetracks in
Pennsylvania. The Company intends to develop the three additional OTWs that have
been allocated to it under Pennsylvania law, after which it would operate 11 of
the 23 OTWs currently authorized in Pennsylvania. Between 1993 and 1996, the
Company increased total wagers at a compound annual growth rate of 21.1% by
expanding its simulcast and OTW operations. In contrast, during the same period,
total industry wagers increased at a compound annual growth rate of 3.0% based
upon industry data.

         The Company developed the Charles Town Entertainment Complex in order
to operate and market a facility that integrates Gaming Machines with the
Company's core business strengths of live racing and simulcast wagering. The
Charles Town Entertainment Complex is an approximately 60-minute drive from
Baltimore, Maryland and an approximately 70-minute drive from Washington, DC.
Through December 31, 1997, the Company has invested a total of approximately
$45.2 million to acquire and develop the Charles Town Entertainment Complex,
which includes $18.2 million in acquisition costs and $27.0 million for
substantial renovations and refurbishments. In developing the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, the Company preserved the California mission-style
architecture of the original Charles Town Races facility and incorporated
extensive internal renovations including a 1930s art deco Hollywood theater
theme within the Silver Screen Gaming area. After having been closed for
approximately six months, the thoroughbred racing and simulcasting operations at
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex were reopened in April 1997. Gaming
Machine operations commenced in September 1997.

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

         Pari-mutuel wagering on thoroughbred or harness racing is pooled
wagering, in which a pari-mutuel wagering system totals the amounts wagered and
adjusts the payouts to reflect the relative amounts bet on different horses and
various possible outcomes. The pooled wagers are (i) paid out to bettors as
winnings in accordance with the payoffs determined by the pari-mutuel wagering
system, (ii) paid to the applicable regulatory or taxing authorities and (iii)
distributed to the track's horsemen in the form of "purses" which encourage
owners and trainers to enter their horses in that track's live races. The
balance of the pooled wagers is retained by the wagering facility. Pari-mutuel
wagering is currently authorized in more than 40 states in the United States,
all provinces in Canada and approximately 100 other countries around the world.

         Gaming and wagering companies, such as the Company, that focus on
pari-mutuel horse race wagering derive revenue through wagers placed at their
own tracks, at their OTWs and on their own races at the tracks and OTWs of
others. While some states, such as New York, operate off-track betting locations
that are independent of racetracks, in other states (such as Pennsylvania)
racetrack ownership and operation is a precondition to OTW ownership and
operation. A racetrack in such a state, then, is akin to an "admission ticket"
to the OTW business.

         Over the past several years, attendance at live racing has generally
declined. Prior to the inception of OTWs, declining live racing attendance at a
track translated directly into lower purses at that track. As the size of the
purses declined, the quality of live racing at the track would suffer, leading
in turn to further reductions in attendance. The Company believes that increased
contributions to the purse pool from wagers placed at OTWs affiliated with
racetracks have significantly offset the effects of declining live racing






attendance on race quality, and thereby improved the marketability of many
tracks' export simulcast products. Indeed, despite declining live racing
attendance, total pari-mutuel wagering on horse races in the United States has
remained relatively constant in recent years, increasing from approximately
$13.7 billion in 1993 to approximately $15.0 billion in 1996, according to
industry data; an increase in simulcast, inter-track and off-track wagering from
approximately $7.6 billion to approximately $11.0 billion during that period has
offset declining wagering at tracks on live races. Given that many pari-mutuel
wagering companies, such as the Company, face the necessary precondition of
conducting live racing operations as their entree into the industry, the Company
believes that its opportunities for success can be maximized through OTW
operations, import and export simulcasting and the operation of Gaming Machines,
to the extent permitted.

         A number of states have recently begun to authorize the installation of
slot machines, video lottery terminals or other gaming machines ("Gaming
Wagering") at live racing venues such as thoroughbred horse tracks, harness
tracks and dog tracks. The revenue from these gaming opportunities and from the
higher volume of wagers placed at these venues has not only increased total
revenues for the tracks at which they are installed, but has generally further
increased purse size and thereby resulted in higher quality races that can
command higher simulcast revenues. The Company has taken advantage of this
development by acquiring Charles Town Races shortly after West Virginia
authorized the operation of Gaming Machines at Charles Town Races. Since
pari-mutuel wagering companies, such as the Company, possess the necessary
precondition of conducting live racing operations to offer OTW wagering
opportunities and Gaming Wagering (where permitted by law), the Company believes
that its opportunities for success can be maximized through OTW operations,
import simulcasting and export simulcasting and the operation of Gaming
Machines, to the extent permitted. At present, more than 40 states authorize
inter-state and/or intra-state pari-mutuel wagering, which may involve the
simulcasting of such races.

STRATEGY

         The Company intends to be a leading operator in the gaming and
pari-mutuel wagering industry by capitalizing on its horse racing expertise and
its numerous wagering locations. The Company plans to increase revenue by using
the following strategies:

         Focus on Gaming Machine Operations. The Company's primary focus at the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex is on Gaming Machine operations. The Company
commenced Gaming Machine operations with a soft opening of 223 Gaming Machines
on September 10, 1997. The Company's grand opening of Gaming Machine operations
at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex occurred on October 17, 1997 with 400
Gaming Machines in operation. As of March 1998, the Company had 609 Gaming
Machines in operation. The Company intends to increase the number of Gaming
Machines in operation at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex to 799 in 1998,
and if demand warrants, to 1,000 thereafter, the maximum number the Company is
currently approved to operate at this complex. The Charles Town Entertainment
Complex's Gaming Machines are dollar bill-fed video gaming machines that
replicate traditional spinning reel slot machines and also feature video card
games, such as blackjack and poker. Marketing efforts, which include print and
radio advertising, commenced in October 1997 and are focused on the Washington,
DC, Baltimore, Maryland, Northern Virginia, Eastern West Virginia and Southern
Pennsylvania markets. The Company intends to enhance these marketing efforts by
installing and operating a computerized player tracking system, in order to
identify preferred players and encourage repeat Gaming Machine patronage at the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex.

         Open Additional OTWs. The Company operates eight of the 19 OTWs now
open in Pennsylvania and has the right to operate three of the four remaining
OTWs that have been authorized in Pennsylvania. The Company's OTWs are located
in Allentown, Chambersburg, Erie, Lancaster, Reading, Williamsport, York and
Hazelton, Pennsylvania. At OTWs, customers can place wagers on thoroughbred and
harness races simulcast from the Company's racetracks and on import simulcast
races from other tracks around the country. Under the Pennsylvania Race Horse
Industry Reform Act ("Pennsylvania Racing Act"), only licensed thoroughbred and
harness racing associations, such as the Company, can operate OTWs or accept
customer wagers on simulcast races at Pennsylvania racetracks. The Company will
open an OTW in Carbondale, Pennsylvania (on or about March 31, 1998) and plans
(subject to the receipt of remaining regulatory approvals, including site
approvals) to open and operate additional OTWs in Stroudsburg and Altoona,
Pennsylvania, which would give the Company a total of 11 of the 23 OTWs
currently authorized by Pennsylvania law.





         Expand Simulcasting Operations. Simulcasting involves the transmission
to, or the receipt of, the audio and/or video signals of a live racing event
through a satellite for re-transmission at a different wagering location. The
Company transmits simulcasts of Company races to other wagering locations
year-round and receives simulcasts of races from other locations for wagering by
its customers at the Company's facilities year-round. During the past five
years, the Company expanded its simulcasting operations and took advantage of
favorable changes in pari-mutuel wagering and simulcasting laws in various
states and the expanded use of simulcasting technology. Import simulcasting
generates revenue for the Company by maximizing the number of events available
to a patron for wagering at the Company's facilities by utilizing idle time
between races at Company racetracks and OTWs. When customers place wagers on
import simulcast races, of the amount not returned to bettors as winning wagers,
a portion is paid to the state in which the Company's wagering facility is
located, a portion is paid to the "purse" fund for the horse owners and trainers
of the Company's racetrack with which the wagering facility is associated, a
portion is paid as a simulcast fee to the originating track and the balance is
retained by the wagering facility and/or track. In order to promote wagering,
the Company has increased and expects to continue to increase full-card import
simulcasts from premier racetracks. The Company currently receives import
simulcasts from approximately 75 racetracks, including premier racetracks such
as Belmont Park, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and Saratoga. The
Company believes that "full-card" import simulcasting, in which all of the races
at a non-Company track are import simulcast to a Company wagering facility, has
improved the wagering opportunities for its customers and thereby increased the
amount wagered at Company facilities. Export simulcasting generates revenue for
the Company by increasing the consumer base for Company races beyond Company
racetracks and OTWs. The Company transmits export simulcasts of Company races to
approximately 98 locations and receives a flat percentage of the amounts wagered
on Company races at non-Company locations, while incurring minimal additional
expense. The Company intends to increase export simulcasting of races from
Company-owned tracks to out-of-state racetracks, OTWs, casinos and other gaming
facilities. The Company also seeks to improve the quality of its export
simulcast products by increasing purse sizes where practicable.

         Capitalize on Other Gaming and Pari-Mutuel Wagering Opportunities. The
Company intends to continue identifying opportunities in the gaming and
pari-mutuel wagering industries which complement the Company's core operations
and leverage its pari-mutuel management and operating strengths. Management also
intends to explore other opportunities to capitalize upon changes in gaming
legislation, including legislation relating to Gaming Machines.

ACQUISITIONS

Pocono Downs Acquisition

         On November 27, 1996, the Company acquired Pocono Downs for an
aggregate purchase price of $48.2 million plus approximately $730,000 in
acquisition-related fees and expenses. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the
purchase agreement, the Company will be required to pay the sellers of Pocono
Downs an additional $10.0 million if, within five years after the consummation
of the acquisition of Pocono Downs, Pennsylvania authorizes any additional form
of gaming in which the Company may participate. The $10.0 million payment is
payable in annual installments of $2.0 million a year for five years, beginning
on the date that the Company first offers such additional form of gaming. As of
March 20, 1998, no such additional form of gaming in Pennsylvania has been
adopted, and therefore, no such payment is due at this time.


         Prior to the Company's acquisition, Pocono Downs conducted (a) harness
racing at Pocono Downs, located outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, (b) export
simulcasting of Pocono Downs races to locations throughout the United States,
(c) pari-mutuel wagering at Pocono Downs and at OTWs in Allentown and Erie,
Pennsylvania on Pocono Downs races and on import simulcast races from other
racetracks, and (d) telephone account wagering on live and import simulcast
races.



Charles Town Acquisition

         On January 15, 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture acquired
substantially all of the assets of Charles Town Races for an aggregate net
purchase price of approximately $16.0 million plus approximately $2.2 million in
acquisition-related fees and expenses. Prior to its acquisition by the Charles
Town Joint Venture, Charles Town Races conducted live thoroughbred horse racing,
on-site pari-mutuel wagering on live races run at Charles Town Races and
wagering on import simulcast races. The Company has refurbished and reopened the
facility as the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, which features live racing,
dining, simulcast wagering and, effective September 1997, Gaming Machines. The
cost of the refurbishment, exclusive of the cost of the lease of the Gaming
Machines, is approximately $27.0 million as of December 31, 1997.

GAMING MACHINE OPERATIONS AT CHARLES TOWN ENTERTAINMENT COMPLEX

         On November 5, 1996, Jefferson County, West Virginia approved a
referendum authorizing the installation and operation of Gaming Machines at the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex. As a result, the Company consummated the
Charles Town Acquisition on January 15, 1997. In April 1997, the Company
reopened the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, featuring live racing, dining
and simulcast wagering. In September 1997, the Company expanded wagering
opportunities by installing Gaming Machines at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex. The Gaming Machines are dollar bill-fed video gaming machines that
replicate traditional spinning reel slot machines and also feature video card
games, such as blackjack and poker. The West Virginia Gaming Machine Act
specifies a 20% maximum percentage of each dollar wagered on Gaming Machines
which can be retained by the Company. The balance of each dollar wagered must be
paid out to the public as winning wagers. Of the portion retained by the
Company, a portion is paid to taxing authorities and other beneficiary
organizations mandated by the State of West Virginia and a portion is paid to
the Charles Town Horsemen in the form of purses. The Company has installed and
is operating, as of March 1998, 609 Gaming Machines at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, and anticipates installing 135 additional Gaming Machines
by April 1998. The Company has obtained all necessary approvals for the
installation and operation of a total of 1,000 Gaming Machines at the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex. After installing 799 Gaming Machines, the Company
will evaluate demand for its Gaming Machines and install an additional 201
Gaming Machines if demand warrants such installation.

RACING AND PARI-MUTUEL OPERATIONS

         The Company's racing and pari-mutuel revenues have been derived from
(i) wagering on the Company's live races (a) at the Penn National Race Course,
(b) at the Company's OTWs, (c) at other Pennsylvania racetracks and OTWs and (d)
through telephone wagering, as well as wagering at the Company's racetracks on
certain stakes races run at out-of-state racetracks (collectively, referred to
in the Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel revenues from Penn
National races"), (ii) wagering on full-card import simulcasts at the Company's
racetracks and OTWs and through telephone wagering (collectively, referred to in
the Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel revenues from import
simulcasting") and (iii) fees from wagering on export simulcasting Company races
at out-of-state locations (referred to in the Company's financial statements as
"pari-mutuel revenues from export simulcasting"). The Company's other revenues
have been derived from admissions, program sales and certain other ancillary
activities, food and beverage sales and concessions.

Pennsylvania Operating Data of the Company

         The following table summarizes certain key operating statistics for the
Company's Pennsylvania pari-mutuel operations related to Penn National Race
Course, Pocono Downs and their respective OTWs, including the pro forma
presentation of data assuming the acquisition of Pocono Downs occurred on
January 1, 1993:













(1)  Does not reflect attendance for wagering on simulcasts when live racing is
     not conducted (i) for all periods presented, in the case of Penn National
     Race Course and (ii) for the years ended December 31, 1993-1995, in the
     case of Pocono Downs.

(2)  Wagering on certain imported stakes races is included in Wagering on the
     Penn National Race Course races. 

(3)  Amounts equal total pari-mutuel revenues, less purses paid to the Horsemen,
     taxes payable to Pennsylvania and simulcast commissions or host track fees
     paid to other racetracks.


Live Racing

     The following table summarizes the Company's live racing facilities:



         The Penn National Race Course is located on approximately 225 acres
approximately 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia
and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. There is a total population of approximately
1.4 million persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around the Penn
National Race Course and approximately 2.2 million persons within a 50-mile
radius. The property includes a one mile all-weather thoroughbred racetrack and
a 7/8-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres
surrounding the Penn National Race Course which are available for future
expansion or development.




         The Penn National Race Course's main building is the
grandstand/clubhouse, which is completely enclosed and heated and, at the
clubhouse level, fully air-conditioned. The building has a capacity of
approximately 15,000 persons with seating for approximately 9,000, including
1,400 clubhouse dining seats. Several other dining facilities and numerous food
and beverage stands are situated throughout the facility. Television sets for
viewing live racing and simulcasts are located throughout the facility. The
pari-mutuel wagering areas are divided between those available for on-track
wagering and those available for simulcast wagering.

         The Penn National Race Course includes stables for approximately 1,250
horses, a blacksmith shop, veterinarians' quarters, jockeys' quarters, a paddock
building, living quarters for grooms, a cafeteria and recreational building in
the backstretch area and water and sewage treatment plants. Parking facilities
for approximately 6,500 vehicles adjoin the Penn National Race Course.

         The Company has conducted live racing at the Penn National Race Course
since 1972, and has held at least 204 days of live racing at the facility in
each of the last five years. The Penn National Race Course is one of only two
thoroughbred racetracks in Pennsylvania. Although other regional racetracks
offer nighttime thoroughbred racing, the Penn National Race Course is the only
racetrack in the Eastern time zone conducting year-round nighttime thoroughbred
horse racing, which the Company believes increases its opportunities to export
simulcast its races during periods in which other racetracks are not conducting
live racing. Post time at the Penn National Race Course is 7:30 p.m. on
Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, and 1:30 p.m. on Sundays and holidays.

         Pocono Downs is located on approximately 400 acres in Plains Township,
outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. There is a total population of approximately
785,000 persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around Pocono Downs
and approximately 1.5 million persons within a 50-mile radius. The property
includes a 5/8-mile all-weather, lighted harness track. Pocono Downs's main
buildings are the grandstand and the clubhouse. The clubhouse is completely
enclosed and heated and fully air-conditioned. The grandstand has enclosed,
heated and air-conditioned seating for approximately 500 persons and permanent
open-air stadium-style seating for approximately 2,500 persons. The clubhouse is
a tiered dining and wagering facility that seats approximately 1,000 persons.
The clubhouse dining area seats 500 persons. Television sets for viewing live
racing and simulcasts are located throughout the facility along with pari-mutuel
wagering areas.

         A two-story 14,000 square foot building which houses the Pocono Downs
offices is located on the property. Pocono Downs also includes stables for
approximately 950 horses, five paddock stables, quarters for grooms, two
blacksmith shops and a cafeteria for the Harness Horsemen. Parking facilities
for approximately 5,000 vehicles adjoin the track.

         The acquisition of Pocono Downs was consummated following the last day
of racing at Pocono Downs for the 1996 season. The Company resumed live racing
at Pocono Downs in April 1997 and conducted 134 days of live harness racing at
the facility in the 1997 season. Post time at Pocono Downs is 7:30 p.m.

         The Charles Town Entertainment Complex is located on a portion of a
250-acre parcel in Charles Town, West Virginia, which is approximately a
60-minute drive from Baltimore, Maryland and a 70-minute drive from Washington,
D.C. There is a total population of approximately 3.1 million persons within a
50-mile radius and approximately 9.0 million persons within a 100-mile radius of
the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The property includes a 3/4-mile
thoroughbred racetrack. The Charles Town Entertainment Complex's main building
is the grandstand/clubhouse, which is completely enclosed and heated. The
clubhouse dining room has seating for 600. Additional food and beverage areas
are situated throughout the facility. The property surrounding the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, including the site of the former Shenandoah Downs
Racetrack, is available for future expansion or development. In addition, the
Company has a right of first refusal for an additional 250 acres that are
adjacent to the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The Charles Town
Entertainment Complex also includes stables, an indoor paddock, ample parking
and water and sewage treatment facilities.

         The Charles Town Races reopened in April 1997 and the Company conducted
159 days of thoroughbred racing at the facility in the 1997 season. Post time at
the Charles Town Races is 7:30 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays and 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesdays and Sundays.





OTWs

         The Company's OTWs provide areas for viewing import simulcasts and
televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. The facilities
also provide convenient parking.



(1)  Consists of original construction costs, equipment and, for owned
     properties, the cost of land and building.

(2)  The Company has purchased land and is in the process of constructing its
     proposed Carbondale OTW. All necessary approvals for operating such
     facilities have been obtained. The Company expects to open the Carbondale
     OTW on or about March 31, 1998. The Company is licensed to operate two
     additional OTWs and has identified sites to operate OTW locations in
     Stroudsburg and Altoona, Pennsylvania, subject to receipt of all applicable
     approvals to operate these sites.

     The Company considers its properties adequate for its presently anticipated
     purposes.

Pari-Mutuel Revenues

         Revenues from Company races consist of the total amount wagered, less
the amount paid as winning wagers. Of the amount not returned to bettors as
winning wagers, a portion is paid to the state in which the track is located, a
portion is distributed to the track's horsemen in the form of "purses" and the
balance is retained by the wagering facility. The Pennsylvania Racing Act
specifies the maximum percentages of each dollar wagered on horse races in
Pennsylvania which can be retained by the Company (prior to required payments to
the Pennsylvania Horsemen and applicable taxing authorities). The percentages
vary, based on the type of wager; the average percentage has approximated 20%,
which is retained by the Company. The balance of each dollar wagered must be
paid out to the public as winning wagers. With the exception of revenues derived
from wagers at the Company's racetracks and OTWs, the Company's revenues on each
race are determined pursuant to such maximum percentage and agreements with the
other racetracks and OTWs at which wagering is taking place. Amounts payable to
the Pennsylvania Horsemen are determined under agreements with the Pennsylvania
Horsemen and vary depending upon where the wagering is conducted and the
racetrack at which such races take place. The Pennsylvania Horsemen receive
their share of such wagering as race purses. The Company retains a higher
percentage of wagers made at its own facilities than of wagers made at other
locations. The West Virginia Racing Act provides for a similar disposition of
pari-mutuel wagers placed at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, with the
average 




percentage of wagers retained by the Company having been approximately
20% (prior to required payments to the Charles Town Horsemen and to applicable
West Virginia taxing authorities and other mandated beneficiary organizations).

Simulcasting

         The Company has been transmitting simulcasts of its races to other
wagering locations and receiving simulcasts of races from other locations for
wagering by its customers at Company facilities year-round, for more than five
years. When customers place wagers on import simulcast races, the Company
receives revenue and incurs expense in substantially the same manner as it would
if the race had been run at one of the Company's own tracks: of the amount not
returned to bettors as winning wagers, a portion is paid to the state in which
the Company wagering facility is located, a portion is paid to the purse fund
for the horse owners or trainers (thoroughbred or harness) of the Company's
racetrack with which the wagering facility is associated, a portion is paid to
the racetrack from which the race is simulcast and the balance is retained by
the Company. The Company believes that full-card import simulcasting, in which
all of the races at a non-Company track are import simulcast to a Company
wagering facility, has improved the wagering opportunities for its customers and
thereby increased the amount wagered at Company facilities. When the Company
exports simulcasts Company races for wagering at non-Company locations, it
receives a fixed percentage of the amounts wagered on that race from the
location to which the simulcast is exported, while incurring minimal additional
expense. During the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1997, respectively, the
Company received import simulcasts from approximately 57 and 75 racetracks,
respectively, including premier racetracks such as Arlington International
Racecourse, Belmont Park, Gulfstream Park, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita and
Saratoga and transmitted export simulcasts of Company races to 63 and 98
locations, respectively.

         Pursuant to an agreement among the members of the Pennsylvania Racing
Association, the Company and the two other Pennsylvania racetracks provide
simulcasts of all their races to all of each other's facilities and set the
commissions payable on such races. In addition, the Company has short-term
agreements with various racetracks throughout the United States to import
simulcast from, and export simulcast to, their facilities; these agreements
include import simulcasts of major stakes races. The Company believes that
import simulcasting of out-of-state races, including full card import
simulcasting, is beneficial economically to the Company because it makes
available wagering on higher quality races and which tends to increase the size
of the average wager.

Telephone Wagering

         In 1983, the Company pioneered Telebet, Pennsylvania's first telephone
account wagering system. A Telebet customer opens an account by depositing funds
with the Company. Account holders can then place wagers by telephone on Company
races and import simulcast races to the extent of the funds on deposit in the
account; any winnings are posted to the account and are available for withdrawal
or future wagers. In December 1995, Pocono Downs instituted Dial-A-Bet, a
similar telephone account betting system.

CHARLES TOWN JOINT VENTURE; OPERATING TERMS

         Pursuant to the original operating agreement governing the Charles Town
Joint Venture, the Company held an 80% ownership interest in the Charles Town
Joint Venture and was obligated to contribute 80% of the purchase price of the
Charles Town Acquisition and 80% of the cost of refurbishing the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex. In consideration of the fact that the Company contributed
100% of the purchase price of the Charles Town Acquisition and 100% of the cost
of refurbishing the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, the Company has amended
its operating agreement with Bryant Development Company and its affiliates
("Bryant") to, among other things, increase the Company's ownership interest in
the Charles Town Joint Venture to 89% and decrease Bryant's interest to 11%. In
addition, the amendment provided that the entire amount the Company has
contributed, and will contribute, to the Charles Town Joint Venture for the
acquisition and refurbishment of the Charles Town Entertainment Complex would be
treated, as between the parties, as a loan to the Charles Town Joint Venture
from the Company. Accordingly, prior to the distribution of any profits pursuant
to the Charles Town Joint Venture, the 





Company must be repaid in full all such contributions or loans, plus accrued
interest, which as of December 31, 1997, equaled $45.9 million.

         The Charles Town Joint Venture acquired its option to purchase the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex from Bryant; Bryant, in turn, acquired the
option from Showboat Operating Company ("Showboat"). Showboat has retained an
option (the "Showboat Option") to operate any casino at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex in return for a management fee (to be negotiated at the
time, based on rates payable for similar properties) and a right of first
refusal to purchase or lease the site of any casino at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex proposed to be leased or sold and to purchase any interest
proposed to be sold in any such casino on the same terms offered by a third
party or otherwise negotiated with the Charles Town Joint Venture. The rights
retained by Showboat under the Showboat Option extend until November 5, 2001,
and expire thereafter unless legislation to permit casino gaming at the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex has been adopted prior to such date. If such
legislation has been adopted prior to such time, then the rights of Showboat
continue for a reasonable time (not less than 24 months) to permit completion of
negotiations.

         While the express terms of the Showboat Option do not specify what
activities at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex would constitute operation
of a casino, Showboat has agreed that the installation and operation of gaming
devices linked to the lottery (like the Gaming Machines the Company has
installed and will continue to install) at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex's racetrack do not trigger Showboat's right to exercise the Showboat
Option. If West Virginia law were to permit casino gaming at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex and if Showboat were to exercise the Showboat Option, the
Company would be required to pay a management fee to Showboat for the operation
of the casino.

POTENTIAL TENNESSEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

         In June 1997, the Company acquired twelve one-month options to purchase
approximately 100 acres of land in Memphis, Tennessee. Since such time, the
Company, through its subsidiary, Tennessee Downs, Inc. ("Tennessee Downs"), has
pursued the development of a harness track and simulcast facility on this option
site, which is located in the northeastern section of Memphis. The Company
submitted an application to the Tennessee Racing Commission (the "Tennessee
Commission") in October 1997 for an initial license for the development and
operation of a harness track and OTW facility at this site. Tennessee Downs has
been found financially suitable by the Tennessee Commission and a public comment
hearing before the Tennessee Commission was held on November 15, 1997. The
Tennessee Commission plans to have its portion of the application review
completed in April 1998. A land use plan for the construction of a 5/8-mile
harness track, clubhouse and grandstand area were approved in October 1997 by
the Land Use Hearing Board for the City of Memphis and County of Shelby. On
December 2, 1997, the Company received the necessary zoning and land development
approvals from the Memphis City Council.

         If the Company is awarded a racing license, the Company plans to spend
approximately $9.0 million in the next year to purchase the land subject to the
option and build a combined OTW and grandstand facility. The Company estimates
that total development costs, including subsequent track construction, will be
approximately $15.0 million. In addition, if the Company is awarded a racing
license, it will be permitted to pursue the development of additional OTWs in
Tennessee, provided it first obtains necessary approvals, including a public
referendum for each proposed OTW site and other necessary zoning and land
development approvals.

         If the Company's application is approved by the Tennessee Commission,
the Company plans to exercise its option to purchase the site and build the
track and OTW facility at an estimated cost of $15.0 million. If this
development project is pursued, the physical plant will be completed in two
phases as described below. The Tennessee Horse Racing Act permits the
construction of both a simulcast facility and a primary facility within the same
enclosure. Upon the approval of the racing license by the Tennessee State Horse
Racing Commission, Tennessee Downs plans to initiate the pre-construction site
improvements and move forward with the construction of the simulcast facility.
This portion of the project will include infrastructure improvements, the actual
simulcast facility and related parking. Estimated construction costs for the
first phase, along with development and land acquisition costs, are estimated to
be approximately $9.0 million. The second phase of the project will include





construction of the track, barns, paddock area and other racing related
amenities. Following timely receipt of all applicable approvals, Tennessee Downs
would initiate construction in the second or third quarter of fiscal 1998 with
the opening of the simulcast facility planned for January, 1999. Construction of
the second phase would follow during the spring/summer of 1999 with an
anticipated opening for live racing sometime in 2000. The second phase of the
project is estimated to cost approximately $6.0 million.

MARKETING AND ADVERTISING

         The Company seeks to increase wagering by broadening its customer base
and increasing the wagering activity of its existing customers. To attract new
customers, the Company seeks to increase the racing knowledge of potential
customers through its television programming, and by providing "user friendly"
automated wagering systems and comfortable surroundings. The Company also seeks
to attract new customers by offering various types of promotions including
family fun days, premium give-away programs, contests and handicapping seminars.

Charles Town Gaming Machine Marketing Programs

         The Company's marketing efforts, which include print and radio
advertising, commenced in October 1997 and are focused on the Washington, D.C.,
Baltimore, Maryland, Northern Virginia, Eastern West Virginia and Southern
Pennsylvania markets. At the Charles Town Entertainment Complex the Company
established the Silver Screen Video Slots Club, a manual player tracking system
designed to reward frequent and active customers. In 1998, the Company intends
to purchase and install a computerized player tracking system at the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex, which will further focus the Company's marketing
efforts. The Company has also implemented a coupon program where customers who
visit the Charles Town Entertainment Complex can redeem each coupon for five
dollars. From these coupons, the Company has compiled a database of customers
that will be targeted for future marketing programs.

Televised Racing Program

         The Company's "Racing Alive" program is televised by satellite
transmission commencing approximately one hour before post time on each live
racing day at the Penn National Race Course. The program provides color
commentary on the races at the Penn National Race Course (including wagering
odds, past performance information and handicapper analysis), general education
on betting and handicapping, interviews with racing personalities and featured
races from other thoroughbred racetracks across the country. The Racing Alive
program is shown at the Penn National Race Course and on various cable
television systems in Pennsylvania and is transmitted to all OTWs that receive
the Penn National Race Course races. The Company intends to expand Racing Alive
and/or to create additional televised programming to cover racing at Pocono
Downs and at other harness racing venues throughout the United States. The
Company's satellite transmissions are encoded so that only authorized facilities
can receive the program.

Automated Wagering Systems

         To make wagering more "user friendly" to the novice and more efficient
for the expert, the Company leases Autotote Systems, Inc.'s automated wagering
equipment. These wagering systems enable the customer to choose a variety of
ways to place a bet through touch-screen interactive terminals and personalized
portable wagering terminals, provide current odds information and enable
customers to place bets and credit winning tickets to their accounts. Currently,
more than 35% of all wagers at Penn National are processed through these
self-service terminals and Telebet.

Modern Facilities

         The Company provides a comfortable, upscale environment at each of its
OTWs, including a full bar, a range of restaurant services and an area devoted
to televised sporting events. The Company believes that its attractive
facilities appeal to its current customers and to new customers, including those
who have not previously visited a racetrack.




GTECH GAMING MACHINE SUPPLY AND SERVICE AGREEMENT

         In June 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture entered into an agreement
(the "GTECH Agreement") with GTECH Corporation ("GTECH") relating to the lease,
installation and service of a video lottery system ("VLS") at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex. The GTECH Agreement provides that GTECH will be the
exclusive provider of VLS and related services, including video lottery
terminals and slot machines, if any, at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex;
provided, however, the Charles Town Joint Venture has retained management
control over the VLS. The GTECH Agreement has a term of five years from the
first date on which 400 Gaming Machines are installed, operational and
generating "Net Win," (total of all cash inserted into, or game credits played
on, a video lottery terminal minus the total value of all prizes paid). On
September 26, 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture had 400 Gaming Machines
installed, operational and generating Net Win at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex. Pursuant to the GTECH Agreement, the Charles Town Joint Venture has
agreed to pay GTECH a fee which can range between 4% and 10% of Gaming Machine
gross revenue. The Company generally is obligated to pay a lower percentage of
Gaming Machine gross revenue to GTECH at higher levels of average win per day
per machine and a higher percentage of Gaming Machine gross revenue at lower
levels of average win per day per machine; provided, however, the Charles Town
Joint Venture is obligated to pay GTECH the greater of the percentage fee
described above or a minimum annual fee of $4.3 million if more than 800 Gaming
Machines are in operation at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The
payments pursuant to the GTECH Agreement include the cost of the rental of the
Gaming Machines, the rental of the software (which is not a component of the
VLS), technical assistance and programming services, maintenance and marketing
services. At the end of the term of the GTECH Agreement, the Charles Town Joint
Venture will purchase the VLS from GTECH for a cash purchase price equal to the
net unamortized residual value of the VLS. In the event GTECH terminates the
agreement because of the Charles Town Joint Venture's material misrepresentation
and/or breach of the GTECH Agreement, the Charles Town Joint Venture must
purchase the VLS from GTECH at a price equal to the net unamortized residual
value of the VLS at that time and pay an additional one-time fee as follows: for
such termination in the first year of the term, $8.5 million; for such
termination in the second year of the term, $6.6 million; for such termination
in the third year of the term, $5.0 million; for such termination in the fourth
year of the term, $3.7 million; and for such termination in the fifth year of
the term, $2.5 million. Pursuant to the GTECH Agreement, the Charles Town Joint
Venture must maintain tangible net worth equal to at least 105% of the amounts
payable as additional fees in the event of a termination as set forth in the
preceding sentence.

PURSES; AGREEMENTS WITH HORSEMEN

         The Horsemen Agreements set forth the amounts to be paid to the
Pennsylvania Horsemen as racing purses. Revenues from wagering at the Penn
National Race Course and Pocono Downs, except for wagering on races simulcast
from outside Pennsylvania, are divided approximately equally between the Company
and the Pennsylvania Horsemen. Revenues from all other sources (all wagering at
the Company's OTWs and on races simulcast from outside Pennsylvania) are shared
such that the Pennsylvania Horseman generally receive between 3.0% and 7.5% of
total wagering at the OTWs.

         The Company sets the purses paid on Company races, based on projected
wagering and in accordance with the terms of the Horsemen Agreements. Because
the amount of the purses is based on projections, at any given point in time the
Pennsylvania Horsemen will have either been overpaid or underpaid. The agreement
with the Thoroughbred Horsemen permits the Thoroughbred Horsemen to require
immediate purse adjustments should the amount of revenues to be paid to them as
purses, and remaining unpaid, exceed $100,000. The amount of underpaid or
overpaid purses varies from time to time, and the Company believes that further
action to reduce the amount of underpaid purses will not affect its ability to
increase purses in an orderly manner. In setting future purses the Company
seeks, over time, to adjust for the under or over-payments, but no assurance can
be given that any such adjustment will be accurate or adequate.

         During the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the
Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen earned an aggregate of approximately $12.0
million, $12.3 million and $12.9 million in purses, respectively. The 





average daily purses earned by the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen who raced
at Penn National Race Course during the three-year period increased from
approximately $57,900 to approximately $60,600. The Company believes that the
increases in daily purses have contributed to an improvement in the quality of
horses racing at the Penn National Race Course. During the years ended December
31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the Harness Horsemen earned an aggregate of
approximately $6.5 million, $5.7 million and $5.4 million in purses,
respectively. The average daily purses earned by the Harness Horsemen during the
four-year period ended December 31, 1997 increased from approximately $35,800 to
approximately $40,100. The average daily purses earned by the Harness Horsemen
for calendar 1996 and 1997 were approximately $42,300 and $40,100 per day,
respectively. The average daily purses at Charles Town Races during such period
decreased from approximately $28,538 to approximately $25,800.

         The Penn National Race Course Thoroughbred Horsemen Agreement was
entered into in February 1996, expires in February 1999 and is subject to
automatic renewal for successive one year terms unless either party gives notice
of termination at least 90 days prior to the end of any such period. The Harness
Horsemen Agreement was entered into in November 1994, became effective in
January 1995 and expires in January 2000. The Company is party to the requisite
agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen, which expires on December 31, 2000.
The West Virginia Gaming Machine Act also requires that the operator of the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex be subject to a written agreement with the
pari-mutuel clerks in order to operate Gaming Machines, although this agreement
expired on December 31, 1997. The Company is in the process of negotiating a new
pari-mutuel clerks agreement.

COMPETITION

         The Company faces significant competition for wagering dollars from
other racetracks and OTWs in Pennsylvania and neighboring states (some of which
also offer other forms of gaming), other gaming venues such as casinos and
state-sponsored lotteries, including the Pennsylvania Lottery and the West
Virginia Lottery. The Company may also face competition in the future from new
OTWs or from new racetracks. From time to time, Pennsylvania has considered
legislation to permit other forms of gaming. Although Pennsylvania has not
authorized any form of casino or other gaming, if additional gaming
opportunities become available in or near Pennsylvania, such gaming
opportunities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
financial condition and results of operations.

         The Company's live races compete for wagering dollars and simulcast
fees with live races and races simulcast from other racetracks both inside and
outside Pennsylvania (including several in New York, New Jersey, West Virginia,
Ohio, Maryland and Delaware). The Company's ability to compete successfully for
wagering dollars is dependent, in part, on the quality of its live horse races.
The quality of horse races at some racetracks that compete with the Company,
either by live races or simulcasts, is higher than the quality of Company races.
The Company believes that there has been some improvement over the last several
years in the quality of the horses racing at the Penn National Race Course, due
to higher purses being paid as a result of the Company's increased simulcasting
activities. However, increased purses may not result in a continued improvement
in the quality of racing at the Penn National Race Course or in any material
improvement in the quality of racing at Pocono Downs or the Charles Town Races.

         The Company's OTWs compete with the OTWs of other Pennsylvania
racetracks, and new OTWs may compete with the Company's existing or proposed
wagering facilities. Competition between OTWs increases as the distance between
them decreases. For example, the Company believes that its Allentown OTW, which
was acquired in the acquisition of Pocono Downs and which is approximately 50
miles from the Penn National Race Course and 35 miles from the Company's Reading
OTW, has drawn some patrons from the Penn National Race Course, the Reading OTW
and the Company's telephone wagering system and that the Company's Lancaster
OTW, which is approximately 31 miles from the Penn National Race Course and 25
miles from the Company's York OTW, has drawn some patrons from the Penn National
Race Course, the York OTW and the Company's telephone wagering system. Moreover,
the Company believes that a competitor's new OTW in King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania, which is approximately 23 miles from the Reading OTW, has drawn
some patrons from the Reading OTW. Although only one competing OTW remains
authorized by law for future opening, the opening of a new OTW in close
proximity 





to the Company's existing or future OTWs could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. A
competitor of the Company has applied to open an OTW within four miles of the
Company's OTW in Allentown. If the application were approved, such new OTW could
compete for patrons with the Company's site. However, the Company believes it is
unlikely that the competitor's site will be approved by gaming authorities under
existing legal precedent established by such gaming authorities.

         The Company's Gaming Machine operations face competition from other
Gaming Machine venues in West Virginia and in neighboring states (including
Dover Downs in Dover, Delaware, Delaware Park in northern Delaware, Harrington
Raceway in southern Delaware and the casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey).
Venues in Delaware and New Jersey, in addition to video gaming machines,
currently offer mechanical slot machines that feature physical spinning reels,
pull-handles and the ability to both accept and pay out coins. West Virginia has
not authorized, and may never approve, such mechanical slot machines. The
failure to attract or retain Gaming Machine customers at the Charles Town
Entertainment Complex, whether arising from such competition or from other
factors, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business,
financial condition and results of operations.

EFFECT OF INCLEMENT WEATHER AND SEASONALITY

         Because horse racing is conducted outdoors, variable weather
contributes to the seasonality of the Company's business. Weather conditions,
particularly during the winter months, may cause races to be canceled or may
curtail attendance. Because a substantial portion of the Company's racetrack
expenses are fixed, the loss of scheduled racing days could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

         For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company has canceled a total
of five racing days because of inclement weather. The severe winter weather in
1996 resulted in the closure of the Company's OTW facilities for two days in
January 1996. Because of the Company's growing dependence upon OTW operations,
severe weather that causes the Company's OTWs to close could have an adverse
effect upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

         Attendance and wagering at the Company's facilities have been favorably
affected by special racing events which stimulate interest in horse racing, such
as the Triple Crown races in May and June and the heavier racing schedule
throughout the country during the second and third quarter. As a result, the
Company's revenues and net income have been greatest in the second and third
quarters of the year, and lowest in the first and fourth quarters of the year.
See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS."

REGULATION AND TAXATION

General

          Company subsidiaries are authorized to conduct thoroughbred racing and
harness racing in Pennsylvania under the Pennsylvania Racing Act. Such
subsidiaries are also authorized, under the Pennsylvania Racing Act and the
Federal Horseracing Act, to conduct import simulcast wagering. The Charles Town
Joint Venture is also subject to the provisions of the West Virginia Racing Act,
which governs the conduct of thoroughbred horse racing in West Virginia, and the
West Virginia Gaming Machine Act, which governs the operation of Gaming Machines
in West Virginia. The Company's live racing, pari-mutuel wagering and Gaming
Machine operations are contingent upon the continued governmental approval of
such operations as forms of legalized gaming. All of the Company's current and
proposed operations are subject to extensive regulations and could be subjected
at any time to additional or more restrictive regulations, or banned entirely.




Pennsylvania Racing Regulation

         The Company's horse racing operations at the Penn National Race Course
and Pocono Downs are subject to extensive regulation under the Pennsylvania
Racing Act, which established the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission and
the State Harness Racing Commission (together, the Pennsylvania Racing
Commissions). The Pennsylvania Racing Commissions are responsible for, among
other things, (i) granting permission annually to maintain racing licenses and
schedule race meets, (ii) approving, after a public hearing, the opening of
additional OTWs, (iii) approving simulcasting activities, (iv) licensing all
officers, directors, racing officials and certain other employees of the Company
and (v) approving all contracts entered into by the Company affecting racing,
pari-mutuel wagering and OTW operations.

         As in most states, the regulations and oversight applicable to the
Company's operations in Pennsylvania are intended primarily to safeguard the
legitimacy of the sport and its freedom from inappropriate or criminal
influences. The Pennsylvania Racing Commissions have broad authority to regulate
in the best interests of racing and may, to that end, disapprove the involvement
of certain personnel in the Company's operations, deny approval of certain
acquisitions following their consummation or withhold permission for a proposed
OTW site for a variety of reasons, including community opposition. For example,
the Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission withheld approval for the
Company's initial site for its Lancaster OTW, but the Company applied and was
ultimately approved for another site in Lancaster, which opened in July 1996.
The Pennsylvania legislature also has reserved the right to revoke the power of
the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions to approve additional OTWs and could, at
anytime, terminate pari-mutuel wagering as a form of legalized gaming in
Pennsylvania or subject such wagering to additional restrictive regulation; such
termination would, and any further restrictions could, have a material adverse
effect upon the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

         The Company may not be able to obtain all necessary approvals for the
operation or expansion of its business. Even if all such approvals are obtained,
the regulatory process could delay implementation of the Company's plans to open
additional OTWs. The Company has had continued permission from the Pennsylvania
State Horse Racing Commission to conduct live racing at the Penn National Race
Course since it commenced operations in 1972, and has obtained permission from
the Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission to conduct live racing at
Pocono Downs. Currently, the Company has approval from the Pennsylvania Racing
Commissions to operate the eight OTWs that are currently open and the three
additional OTWs the Company proposed to open. A Commission may refuse to grant
permission to open additional OTWs or to continue to operate existing
facilities. The failure to obtain required regulatory approvals would have a
material adverse effect upon the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations.

         The Pennsylvania Racing Act provides that no corporation licensed to
conduct thoroughbred racing with pari-mutuel wagering shall be licensed to
conduct harness racing with pari-mutuel wagering and that no corporation
licensed to conduct harness racing with pari-mutuel wagering shall be licensed
to conduct thoroughbred racing with pari-mutuel wagering. The Company's harness
and thoroughbred licenses are held by separate corporations, each of which is a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Moreover, the Pennsylvania State Harness
Racing Commission has reissued the Pocono Downs harness racing license and has
found, in connection with the reissuance, that it is not "inconsistent with the
best interests, convenience or necessity or with the best interests of racing
generally," that a subsidiary of the Company beneficially owns Pocono Downs. The
Company thus believes that the arrangement under which it holds both a harness
and a thoroughbred license complies with applicable regulations.

West Virginia Racing and Gaming Regulation

         The Company's operations at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex are
subject to regulation by the West Virginia Racing Commission under the West
Virginia Racing Act, and by the West Virginia Lottery Commission under the West
Virginia Gaming Machine Act. The powers and responsibilities of the West
Virginia Racing Commission under the West Virginia Racing Act are substantially
similar in scope and effect to those of the Pennsylvania Racing Commissions and
extend to the approval and/or oversight of all aspects of racing and pari-mutuel
wagering operations. The Charles Town Joint Venture has obtained from the West
Virginia Racing Commission a license to conduct racing and pari-mutuel wagering
at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. Pursuant to the West Virginia Gaming
Machine Act, the Company has obtained approval for the installation and
operation of a total of 1,000 Gaming Machines at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex.




State and Federal Simulcast Regulation

         Both the Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (the "Federal Horse
Racing Act") and the Pennsylvania Racing Act require that the Company have a
written agreement with the Thoroughbred Horsemen and with the Harness Horsemen
in order to simulcast races. The Company has entered into the Horsemen
Agreements, and in accordance therewith has agreed on the allocations of the
Company's revenues from import simulcast wagering to the purse funds for the
Penn National Race Course, Charles Town Races and Pocono Downs. Because the
Company cannot conduct import simulcast wagering in the absence of the Horsemen
Agreements, the termination or non-renewal of either Horsemen Agreement could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition
and results of operations.

Taxation

         The Company believes that the prospect of significant additional
revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized
gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes
and fees in addition to normal federal and state income taxes, and such taxes
and fees are subject to increase at any time. The Company pays substantial taxes
and fees with respect to its operations. From time to time, federal legislators
and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of
such laws, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine with
certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such
laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Compliance with Other Laws

         The Company and its OTWs are also subject to a variety of other rules
and regulations, including zoning, construction and land-use laws and
regulations in Pennsylvania and West Virginia governing the serving of alcoholic
beverages. Currently, Pennsylvania laws and regulations permit the construction
of off-track wagering facilities, but may affect the selection of a particular
OTW site because of parking, traffic flow and other similar considerations, any
of which may serve to delay the opening of future OTWs in Pennsylvania. By
contrast, West Virginia law does not permit the operation of OTWs. The Company
derives a significant portion of its other revenues from the sale of alcoholic
beverages to patrons of its facilities. Any interruption or termination of the
Company's existing ability to serve alcoholic beverages would have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Restrictions on Share Ownership and Transfer

         The Pennsylvania Racing Act requires that any shareholder proposing to
transfer beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the Company's shares file an
affidavit with the Company setting forth certain information about the proposed
transfer and transferee, a copy of which the Company is required to furnish to
the Pennsylvania Racing Commission. The certificates representing the Company
shares owned by 5% beneficial shareholders are required to bear certain legends
prescribed by the Pennsylvania Racing Act. In addition, under the Pennsylvania
Racing Act, the Pennsylvania Racing Commission has the authority to order a 5%
beneficial shareholder of the Company to dispose of his Common Stock of the
Company if it determines that continued ownership would be inconsistent with the
public interest, convenience or necessity or the best interest of racing
generally. The West Virginia Gaming Machine Act provides that a transfer of more
than 5% of the voting stock of a corporation which controls the license may only
be to persons who have met the licensing requirements of the West Virginia
Gaming Machine Act or which transfer has been pre-approved by the West Virginia
Lottery Commission. Any transfer that does not comply with this requirement
voids the license.

Potential Tennessee Development Regulatory Compliance.

         If the Company successfully completes the development of its potential
Tennessee harness track and OTWs, the Company will likely face regulatory
requirements that are similar to the requirements affecting its existing
operations; however, given the absence of horse racing in Tennessee at this
time, the Company may face more burdensome regulatory approvals or compliance in
light of the absence of an established regulatory framework.




ITEM 2  PROPERTIES

Thoroughbred Track

         The Thoroughbred Track is located on approximately 225 acres
approximately 15 miles northeast of Harrisburg, 100 miles west of Philadelphia
and 200 miles east of Pittsburgh. There is a total population of approximately
1.4 million persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around the
Thoroughbred Track and approximately 2.2 million persons within a 50-mile
radius. The property includes a one mile all-weather thoroughbred racetrack and
a 7/8-mile turf track. The property also includes approximately 400 acres
surrounding the Thoroughbred Track which are available for future expansion or
development.

         The Thoroughbred Track's main building is the grandstand/clubhouse,
which is completely enclosed and heated and, at the clubhouse level, fully
air-conditioned. The building has a capacity of approximately 15,000 persons
with seating for approximately 9,000, including 1,400 clubhouse dining seats.
Several other dining facilities and numerous food and beverage stands are
situated throughout the facility. Television sets for viewing live racing and
simulcasts are located throughout the facility. The pari-mutuel wagering areas
are divided between those available for on-track wagering and those available
for simulcast wagering.

         The Thoroughbred Track includes stables for approximately 1,250 horses,
a blacksmith shop, veterinarians' quarters, jockeys' quarters, a paddock
building, living quarters for grooms, a cafeteria and recreational building in
the back stretch area and water and sewage treatment plants. Parking facilities
for approximately 6,500 vehicles adjoin the Thoroughbred Track.

Harness Track

         The Harness Track is located on approximately 400 acres in Plains
Township, outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. There is a total population of
approximately 785,000 persons within a radius of approximately 35 miles around
the Harness Track and approximately 1.5 million persons within a 50-mile radius.
The property includes a 5/8-mile all-weather, lighted harness track. The Harness
Track's main buildings are the grandstand and the clubhouse. The clubhouse is
completely enclosed and heated and fully air-conditioned. The grandstand has
enclosed, heated and air-conditioned seating for approximately 500 persons and
permanent open-air stadium-style seating for approximately 2,500 persons. The
clubhouse is a tiered dining and wagering facility that seats approximately
1,000 persons. The clubhouse dining area seats 500 persons. Television sets for
viewing live racing and simulcasts are located throughout the facility along
with pari-mutuel wagering areas.

         A two-story 14,000 square foot building which houses the Pocono Downs
offices is located on the property. The Harness Track also includes stables for
approximately 950 horses, five paddock stables, quarters for grooms, two
blacksmith shops and a cafeteria for the Harness Horsemen. Parking facilities
for approximately 5,000 vehicles adjoin the track.

         The solid waste landfill ("Landfill") is on a parcel of land adjacent
to the Harness Track. The East Side Landfill Authority (the "Landfill
Authority"), which operated the Landfill from 1970 until 1982, disposed of
municipal waste on behalf of four municipalities. The Landfill is currently
subject to a closure order issued by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Resources ("PADER") which the four municipalities are required to
implement pursuant to a 1986 Settlement Agreement among the former trustee in
bankruptcy for Pocono Downs, the Landfill Authority, the municipalities and
PADER (the "Settlement Agreement"). According to the Company's environmental
consulting firm, the Landfill closure is substantially complete. To date, the
municipalities obligated to implement the closure order pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement, have been fulfilling their obligations. However, there can
be no assurance that the municipalities will continue to meet their obligations
under the Settlement Agreement or that the terms of the Settlement Agreement
will not be amended in the future. In addition, the Company may be liable for
future claims with respect to the Landfill under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act and analogous state laws. The Company
may incur expenses in connection with the Landfill in the future, which expenses
may not be reimbursed by the 





municipalities. Any such expenses could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Charles Town Facility

         The Charles Town Facility is located on a portion of a 250-acre parcel
in Charles Town, West Virginia, which is approximately a 60-minute drive from
Baltimore, Maryland and a 70-minute drive from Washington, D.C. There is a total
population of approximately 3.1 million persons within a 50-mile radius and
approximately 9.0 million persons within a 100-mile radius of the Charles Town
Facility. The property includes a 3/4-mile thoroughbred racetrack. The Charles
Town Facility's main building is the grandstand/clubhouse, which is completely
enclosed and heated. The clubhouse dining room has seating for 600. Additional
food and beverage areas are situated throughout the facility. The property
surrounding the Charles Town Facility, including the site of the former
Shenandoah Downs Racetrack, is available for future expansion or development. In
addition, the Company has a right of first refusal for an additional 250 acres
that are adjacent to the Charles Town Facility.

         The Charles Town Facility also includes stables, an indoor paddock,
ample parking and water and sewage treatment facilities.

OTWs

         The Company's OTWs provide areas for viewing import simulcasts and
televised sporting events, placing pari-mutuel wagers and dining. The facilities
also provide convenient parking.

         The Company's current OTW properties are described in the following
table:

                                                                   OWNED OR
LOCATION                                                            LEASED
- --------                                                           --------

Allentown....................................................       Owned
Chambersburg.................................................       Leased
Erie.........................................................       Owned
Lancaster....................................................       Leased
Reading......................................................       Leased
York.........................................................       Leased
Williamsport.................................................       Owned
Hazelton.....................................................       Leased

Other Property and Equipment

         The Company currently leases 6,183 square feet of office space in an
office building in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania for the Company's executive offices.
The lease expires in April 2005 and provides for an annual rental of $71,100
plus common area expenses and electric utility charges. The office building is
owned by an affiliate of Peter M. Carlino, the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. The Company believes that the lease terms are not less
favorable than lease terms that could have been obtained from an unaffiliated
third party.

         The Company currently leases an aircraft from a company owned by John
Jacquemin, a director of the Company. The lease expires in August 2007, and
provides for monthly payments of $8,356. The Company believes that the lease
terms are not less favorable than lease terms that could have been obtained from
an unaffiliated third party.




EMPLOYEES AND LABOR RELATIONS

         At March 16, 1998, the Company had 1,629 permanent employees, of whom
749 were full-time and 880 part-time. Employees of the Company who work in the
admissions department and pari-mutuels department at the Penn National Race
Course, Pocono Downs and the OTWs are represented under collective bargaining
agreements between the Company and Sports Arena Employees' Union Local 137. The
agreements extend until October 3, 1999 for track employees and until May 20,
1998 for OTW employees. The pari-mutuel clerks at Pocono Downs voted to unionize
in June 1997. The Company has held negotiations with this union, but does not
have a contract to date. Failure to reach agreement with this union would not
result in the suspension or termination of the Company's license to operate live
racing at Pocono Downs or to conduct simulcast or OTW operations. The Company
believes that its relations with its employees are satisfactory.

ITEM 3  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         In December 1997, Amtote International, Inc. ("Amtote"), filed an
action against the Company and the Charles Town Joint Venture in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia. In its
complaint, Amtote (i) states that the Company and the Charles Town Joint Venture
allegedly breached certain contracts with Amtote and its affiliates when it
entered into a wagering services contract with a third party (the "Third Party
Wagering Services Contract"), and not with Amtote, effective January 1, 1998,
(ii) sought preliminary and injunctive relief through a temporary restraining
order seeking to prevent the Charles Town Joint Venture from (a) entering into a
wagering services contract with a party other than Amtote and (b) having a third
party provide such wagering services, (iii) seeks declaratory relief that
certain contracts allegedly bind the Charles Town Joint Venture to retain Amtote
for wagering services through September 2004 and (iv) seeks unspecified
compensatory damages, legal fees and costs associated with the action and other
legal and equitable relief as the Court deems just and appropriate. On December
24, 1997, a temporary restraining order was issued, which prescribes performance
under the Third Party Wagering Contract. On January 14, 1998, a hearing was held
to rule on whether a preliminary injunction should be issued or whether the
temporary restraining order should be lifted, and on February 20, 1998, the
court lifted the temporary restraining order. The Company intends to pursue
legal remedies to terminate Amtote and proceed under the Third Party Wagering
Services Contract. The Company believes that this action, and any resolution
thereof, will not have any material adverse impact upon its financial condition,
results, or the operations of either the Charles Town Joint Venture or the
Company.

ITEM 4  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


         None




                                     PART II

ITEM 5   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The Company's Common Stock is quoted on The Nasdaq National Market
under the symbol "PENN." The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated the high and low sales prices per share of the Company's Common Stock
as reported on The Nasdaq National Market.



         The closing sale price per share of Common Stock on The Nasdaq National
Market on March 20,1998 was $10.313. As of March 20, 1998, there were 581
holders of record of Common Stock.

                                 DIVIDEND POLICY

         Since the Company's initial public offering of Common Stock in May
1994, the Company has not paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock. The
Company intends to retain all of its earnings to finance the development of the
Company's business, and thus, does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its
Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Payment of any cash dividends in the
future will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will
depend upon, among other things, future earnings, operations, capital
requirements, the general financial condition of the Company and general
business conditions. Moreover, the Company's existing credit facility prohibits
the Company from authorizing, declaring or paying any dividends.





ITEM 6  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

         The following selected consolidated financial data of the Company for
the years ended December 31, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997, except for Other
Data, are derived from financial statements that have been audited by BDO
Seidman, LLP, independent certified public accountants, adjusted as described in
the notes below. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the Company and Notes
thereto, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and the other financial information included herein.




















(1)   The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include entities
      which, prior to a recapitalization which occurred in 1994 shortly before
      the Company's initial public offering, were affiliated through common
      ownership and control.

(2)   Reflects the November 27, 1996 acquisition of Pocono Downs and the January
      15, 1997 acquisition of a joint venture interest in the Charles Town
      Entertainment Complex. See "BUSINESS-ACQUISITIONS."

(3)   Amounts equal total pari-mutuel revenues, less purses paid to Horsemen,
      taxes payable to Pennsylvania and simulcast commissions or host track fees
      paid to other racetracks. Figures for the years ended December 31, 1995
      and 1996 do not include purses paid at Penn National Speedway.

(4)   Supplemental pro forma amounts for the years ended December 31, 1993 and
      1994 reflect (i) the elimination of $1,208,000 and $345,000, respectively,
      in management fees paid to a related entity, (ii) the inclusion of
      $320,000 and $133,000, respectively, in executive compensations, (iii) the
      elimination of $946,000 and $413,000, respectively, of interest expenses
      on Company debt which was repaid with the proceeds of the initial public
      offering in 1994, (iv) the elimination of $0 and $198,000, respectively,
      of loss on early extinguishment of debt, and (v) a provision for income
      taxes of $701,000 and $377,000, respectively, as if the S corporations and
      partnerships comprising part of the Company prior to the Reorganization in
      1994 had been taxed as C corporations. There were no supplemental pro
      forma adjustments for any subsequent periods.

(5)   Based on 8,400,000 shares of Common Stock outstanding before the initial
      public offering in May 1994, plus 4,500,000 shares sold by the Company in
      the initial public offering.

ITEM 7  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

         The Company's pari-mutuel revenues have been derived from (i) wagering
on the Company's live races (a) at the Penn National Race Course, (b) at the
Company's OTWs, (c) at other Pennsylvania racetracks and OTWs and (d) through
telephone wagering, as well as wagering at the Company's racetracks on certain
stakes races run at out-of-state racetracks (collectively, referred to in the
Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel revenues from Penn National
races"), (ii) wagering on full-card import simulcasts at the Company's
racetracks and OTWs and through telephone wagering (collectively, referred to in
the Company's financial statements as "pari-mutuel revenues from import
simulcasting") and (iii) fees from wagering on export simulcasting Company races
at out-of-state locations (referred to in the Company's financial statements as
"pari-mutuel revenues from export simulcasting"). The Company's other revenues
have been derived from admissions, program sales and certain other ancillary
activities, food and beverage sales and concessions and, beginning in September
1997, Gaming Machines.

         Over the past several years, attendance at live racing, on an
industry-wide basis, has generally declined. Prior to the inception of OTWs,
declining live racing attendance at a track translated directly into lower
purses at that track. As the size of the purses declined, the quality of live
racing at the track would suffer, leading in turn to further reductions in
attendance. However, the Company believes that increased contributions to the
purse pool from wagers placed at OTWs affiliated with racetracks have
significantly offset the effects of declining live racing attendance on race
quality, and thereby improved the marketability of many tracks' export simulcast
products. Indeed, despite declining live racing attendance, total pari-mutuel
wagering on horse races in the United States has remained relatively constant in
recent years. Moreover, a number of states have recently begun to authorize the
installation of slot machines, video lottery terminals or other gaming machines
at live racing venues such as thoroughbred horse tracks, harness tracks and dog
tracks. The revenue from these gaming opportunities and from the higher volume
of wagers placed at these venues has not only increased total revenues for the
tracks at which they are installed, but has generally further increased purse
size and thereby resulted in higher quality races that can command higher
simulcast revenues.




         The amount of revenue to the Company from a wager depends upon where
the race is run and where the wagering takes place. Pari-mutuel revenues from
Company races and import simulcasting of out-of-state races have consisted of
the total amount wagered, less the amount paid as winning wagers. Pari-mutuel
revenues from wagering at the Company's racetracks or the Company's OTWs on
import simulcasting from other Pennsylvania racetracks have consisted of the
total amount wagered, less the amounts paid as winning wagers, amounts payable
to the host racetrack and pari-mutuel taxes to Pennsylvania. Pari-mutuel
revenues from export simulcasting have consisted of amounts payable to the
Company by the out-of-state racetracks with respect to wagering on live races at
the Company's racetracks. Operating expenses have included purses payable to the
Thoroughbred Horsemen, commissions to other racetracks with respect to wagering
at their facilities on races at the Company's racetracks, pari-mutuel taxes on
races at the Company's racetracks and export simulcasting and other direct and
indirect operating expenses.

         The Pennsylvania Racing Act specifies the maximum percentages of each
dollar wagered on horse races in Pennsylvania which may be retained by the
Company (prior to required payments to the Thoroughbred Horsemen and applicable
taxing authorities). The percentages vary, based on the type of wager; the
average percentage has approximated 20%. The balance of each dollar wagered must
be paid out to the public as winning wagers. With the exception of revenues
derived from wagers at the Company's racetracks or the Company's OTWs, the
Company's revenues on each race are determined pursuant to such maximum
percentage and agreements with the other racetracks and OTWs at which wagering
is taking place. Amounts payable to the Thoroughbred Horsemen are determined
under agreements with the Thoroughbred Horsemen and vary depending upon where
the wagering is conducted and the racetrack at which such races take place. The
Thoroughbred Horsemen receive their share of such wagering as race purses. The
Company retains a higher percentage of wagers made at its own facilities than of
wagers made at other locations. See "BUSINESS-PURSES; AGREEMENTS WITH HORSEMEN."

         On November 27, 1996, the Company acquired Pocono Downs for an
aggregate purchase price of $48.2 million plus approximately $730,000 in
acquisition-related fees and expenses. Pocono Downs conducts harness racing and
pari-mutuel wagering at its track outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, export
simulcasting of Pocono Downs races to locations throughout the United States,
pari-mutuel wagering at Pocono Downs and at OTWs in Allentown and Erie,
Pennsylvania on Pocono Downs races and on import simulcast races from other
racetracks and telephone account wagering on live and import simulcast races.
The Company applied and was approved by the Pennsylvania Harness Commission for
a new racing license and 1998 harness racing dates at Pocono Downs. This
approval entitles the Company to reduce, for a period of four years, its
pari-mutuel tax by one-half percent with respect to wagering at Pocono Downs and
the Company's OTWs in Allentown, Carbondale, Erie, Hazleton and Stroudsburg,
Pennsylvania.

         Prior to the acquisition of Pocono Downs, the Company operated four
OTWs, one each in Chambersburg, Lancaster, Reading and York, Pennsylvania. The
Company added the OTWs in Allentown and Erie, Pennsylvania in November 1996
through the acquisition of Pocono Downs and added two OTWs through the opening
of the Williamsport OTW in February 1997 and the Hazleton OTW in March, 1998.
The Company has obtained approvals to operate, and expects to open on or about
March 31, 1998, an OTW in Carbondale, Pennsylvania. Subject to the receipt of
all regulatory approvals, the Company anticipates opening additional OTWs in
Stroudsburg and Altoona, Pennsylvania, at which time the Company would operate
11 of the 23 OTWs, authorized under Pennsylvania law.

         On January 15, 1997, the Company acquired for a net purchase price of
approximately $18.2 million (including acquisition costs) a controlling joint
venture interest in Charles Town Races. After substantially completing a major
renovation and refurbishment of the property, the Company reopened Charles Town
Races as the Charles Town Entertainment Complex which features Gaming Machines,
live racing, simulcast wagering and dining. The Company currently owns an 89%
joint venture interest in the Charles Town Joint Venture. Racing operations
reopened at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex in April 1997. Gaming Machine
operations commenced with a soft opening on September 10, 1997, followed by the
Company's grand opening on October 17, 1997. The Company operated an average of
approximately 300 Gaming Machines in September 1997, and 





increased the number of Gaming Machines in operation to 550 as of October 31,
1997. The Company has installed and is operating, as of March 1998, 609 Gaming
Machines at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex, and anticipates that the
Company will install 135 additional Gaming Machines by April 1998. The Company
ultimately intends to operate at the Charles Town Entertainment Complex 1,000
Gaming Machines, the maximum number it is currently permitted to operate by law
if demand warrants.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The following table sets forth certain data from the Consolidated
Statements of Income of the Company as a percentage of total revenues:

                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                                          ----------------------
                                                       1995      1996      1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Revenues
Pari-mutuel revenues
Live races.........................................    37.1%     29.8%     24.8%
Import simulcasting................................    47.3      52.5      53.6
Export simulcasting................................     3.7       5.3       4.7
Gaming Machine revenues............................     --        --        5.1
Admissions, programs and other racing                 
revenues...........................................     6.4       7.0       5.1
Concession revenues................................     5.5       5.4       6.7
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      
Total revenues.....................................   100.0     100.0     100.0
                                                      
Operating expenses                                    
Purses, stakes and trophies........................    21.0      20.5      20.0
Direct salaries, payroll taxes and employee           
benefits...........................................    13.3      13.8      14.5
Simulcast expenses.................................    15.8      14.7      11.7
Pari-mutuel taxes..................................     8.6       8.5       8.5
Lottery taxes and administration...................      --        --       1.7
Other direct meeting expenses......................    13.1      13.6      16.2
OTW concession expenses............................     3.7       3.7       5.0
Other operating expenses...........................     8.7       7.9       7.8
Depreciation and amortization......................     1.5       2.3       3.6
Site development and restructuring charges.........      --        --       2.2
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      
Total operating expenses...........................    85.7      84.9      91.3
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      
Income from operations.............................    14.3      15.1       8.7
                                                      
Total other income (expenses)......................     0.4      (0.2)     (3.3)
                                                      -------------------------
Income before income taxes and extraordinary          
item...............................................    14.7      14.9       5.4
                                                      =========================
                                                      
Net income.........................................     8.7%      8.8%      2.1%
                                                      =========================



                                                   

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

         Total revenue increased by approximately $48.7 million, or 77.5%, from
$62.8 million in 1996 to $111.5 million in 1997. Pocono Downs, which was
acquired in the fourth quarter of 1996 accounted for $30.8 million of the
increase. Charles Town Races, which was purchased in January 1997, accounted for
$16.5 million of the increase. The Company renovated and refurbished the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex following its acquisition and commenced racing
operations on April 30, 1997 and Gaming Machine operations, with a soft opening,
on September 10, 1997. The remaining revenue increase of $1.4 million was
primarily due to an increase of approximately $6.2 million associated with the
opening of the Penn National OTW facility in Williamsport in February 1997, and
a full year of operations at the Lancaster OTW facility. This increase was
offset by a decrease in revenues of approximately $4.2 million at the Company's
OTW facilities in Reading and York. Management believes that the decrease in
revenues at these facilities was primarily due to the opening of a competitor's
OTW facility and the opening of the Company's Lancaster OTW facility in July
1996. The Company also had a decrease in revenues of $.6 million due to the
closing of Penn National Speedway at the end of the 1996 season.

         Total operating expenses increased by approximately $48.4 million, or
90.7%, from $53.4 million in 1996 to $101.8 million in 1997. Pocono Downs and
Charles Town Races, which the Company did not operate in the corresponding prior
period, accounted for $25.5 million and $17.5 million of this increase,
respectively. Operating expenses also increased by $5.4 million primarily due to
an increase of $4.4 million associated with the opening of the Company's new OTW
facility in Williamsport in February 1997, and a full year of operations at the
Lancaster OTW facility. This increase was offset by a decrease in operating
expenses of approximately $1.9 million at the Penn National Race Course facility
and at the Company's OTW facilities in Reading and York associated with lower
revenues at those facilities. The increase in corporate expenses of $1.4 million
was due to increased personnel, office space and other administrative expense
necessary to support the expansion of the Company. The Company also incurred
site development and restructuring charges in the amount of $2.4 million. The
site development charges ($1.7 million) consist of $800,000 related to the
Charles Town Races facility and $935,000 related to the abandonment of certain
proposed operating sites during 1997. The restructuring charges primarily
consist of $350,000 in severance termination benefits and other charges at the
Charles Town Races facility, $300,000 for the restructuring of the Erie,
Pennsylvania off-track wagering facility and $52,000 of property and equipment
written-off in connection with the discontinuation of Penn National Speedway,
Inc. operations during 1997. The Company also had a decrease in expenses of $.9
million due to the closing of Penn National Speedway at the end of the 1996
season.

         Income from operations increased by approximately $265,000, or 2.9%,
from $9.5 million in 1996 to $9.7 million in 1997 due to the factors described
above. The Company had other expenses of approximately $3.7 million in 1997
compared to $156,000 in 1996, primarily as a result of increased interest
expense. The increase in interest expense is due to the Company's incurring bank
debt for the purchase of Pocono Downs and Charles Town Races, and for the
renovations to the Charles Town Facility and issuing $80.0 million of 10.625%
Senior Notes on December 12, 1997 to repay existing bank debt.

         The extraordinary item consisted of a loss on the early extinquishment
of debt in the amount of $1,482,000, net of income taxes. The loss consists
primarily of write-offs of deferred finance costs associated with the retired
bank notes and legal and bank fees relating to the early extinquishment of the
debt.

         Net income decreased by approximately $3.2 million or 58.5%, from $5.5
million in 1996 to $2.3 million in 1997 based on the factors described above.
Income taxes decreased by $1.5 million from $3.8 million in 1996 to $2.3 million
in 1997 as a result of the decrease in income for the year.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

         Total revenues increased by approximately $5.2 million, or 8.9%, from
$57.7 million in 1995 to $62.8 million in 1996. The increase was attributable to
an increase in import and export simulcasting revenues, offset in 





part by a decrease in pari-mutuel revenues on live races at the Penn National
Race Course. The increases in pari-mutuel revenues from import simulcasting,
admissions, programs and other racing revenues and concession revenue were due
primarily to operating the York OTW facility for twelve months in 1996 compared
to nine months in 1995, the opening of the Lancaster OTW facility in July 1996,
and the additional revenue from the acquisition of Pocono Downs since November
28, 1996. The increase in export simulcasting revenue of $1.2 million or 56.3%
from $2.1 million to $3.3 million resulted from the marketing of the Penn
National Race Course races to additional out-of-state locations. The decrease in
pari-mutuel revenues on the Penn National Race Course races was due to increased
import simulcasting revenue from wagering on other racetracks at Company
facilities and inclement winter weather conditions throughout the state of
Pennsylvania during the first quarter of 1996. For the year, the Penn National
Race Course was scheduled to run 217 live race days but canceled eleven in the
first quarter of 1996 due to weather. In 1995, the Penn National Race Course ran
204 live race days and had six cancellations.

         Total operating expenses increased by approximately $4.0 million, or
8.0%, from $49.4 million in 1995 to $53.4 million in 1996. The increase in
operating expenses resulted from a full year of operations for the York OTW
compared to nine months in 1995, six months of operating expenses for the new
Lancaster OTW, one month of operating expenses at Pocono Downs and the expansion
of the corporate staff and office facility at Wyomissing in June of 1995.

         Income from operations increased by approximately $1.2 million, or
14.6%, from $8.3 million in 1995 to $9.5 million in 1996 due to the factors
described above.

         The Company had other operating expenses of $156,000 in 1996 compared
to other operating income of $208,000 in 1995, primarily as a result of
increased interest expense. The increase in interest expense is due to the
company incurring bank debt of $47 million on November 27, 1996 for the purchase
of Pocono Downs.

         Net income increased $514,000 or 10.3%, from $5.0 million in 1995 to
$5.5 million in 1996 reflecting the factors described above. Income tax expense
increased from $3.5 million to $3.8 million due to the increase in income for
the year.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         Historically, the Company's primary sources of liquidity and capital
resources have been cash flow from operations, borrowings from banks and
proceeds from issuance of equity securities.

         Net cash provided from operating activities for the year ended December
31, 1997 ($10.7 million) consisted of net income and non-cash expenses ($6.3
million), the extraordinary loss relating to early extinquishment of debt ($2.5
million), the repayment of the Charles Town Entertainment Complex receivable in
January 1997 ($1.3 million) and other changes in certain assets and liabilities
($.6 million).

         Cash flows used in investing activities for the year ended December 31,
1997 ($47.6 million) consisted of the acquisition of the Charles Town Races
($18.2 million), construction in progress and renovation and refurbishment of
the Charles Town Races ($25.5 million), and $3.9 million in capital
expenditures, including approximately $700,000 for the completion of the
Williamsport OTW facility.

         Net cash flows from financing activities totaled approximately $53.2
million for the year ended December 31, 1997. Cash flows consisted principally
of $23.1 million in proceeds from an equity offering in February 1997, $16.5
million in proceeds from long-term debt used as payment for the acquisition of
Charles Town Races on January 15, 1997, $31.0 million in additional proceeds
from long-term debt used for renovations at the Charles Town Entertainment
Complex and capital improvements at other locations, and $80 million from the
issuance on December 12, 1997, of 10.625% Senior Notes due 2004. The Company
used the proceeds from the equity offering to repay $19.0 million of its bank
debt (including borrowings from the acquisition of the Charles Town Races
facility), with the remaining amount used for the refurbishment of the Charles
Town Entertainment Complex. The Company used $59.0 million of the proceeds from
the issuance of the Senior Notes to repay the 





balance of its bank debt on December 12, 1997. The Company also incurred $3.0
million of financing costs associated with the sale of the Senior Notes.

         The Company is subject to possible liabilities arising from the
environmental condition at the landfill adjacent to Pocono Downs. Specifically,
the Company may incur expenses in connection with the landfill in the future,
which expenses may not be reimbursed by the four municipalities which are
parties to the Settlement Agreement. The Company is unable to estimate the
amount, if any, that it may be required to expend. See "PROPERTIES-Harness
Track."

         During 1998 the Company anticipates capital expenditures of
approximately $7.2 million to complete construction of four additional OTW
facilities. For the existing racetracks and OTW facilities, at Penn National
Race Course and Pocono Downs, the Company plans to spend an additional $500,000
and $350,000, respectively, on building improvements and equipment. The Company
anticipates expending approximately $1.4 million on the refurbishment of the
Charles Town Entertainment Complex (excluding the cost of Gaming Machines). If
approval of the Tennessee license is received, the Company anticipates expending
$9.0 million to complete the first phase of the project.

         The Company entered into a Credit Facility with Bankers Trust Company,
as agent. The Credit Facility provides for, subject to certain terms and
conditions, a $12.0 million revolving credit facility and has a five-year term
from its closing. The Credit Facility, under certain circumstances, requires the
Company to make mandatory prepayments and commitment reductions and to comply
with certain covenants, including financial ratios and maintenance tests. The
Company would not have been in compliance with certain convents had the bank
group not granted waivers of certain technical defaults regarding minimum
consolidated net worth, consolidated cash interest ratio and minimum leverage
ratio. In addition, the Company may make optional prepayments and commitment
reductions pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility. Borrowings under the
Credit Facility will accrue interest, at the option of the Company, at either a
base rate plus an applicable margin of up to 2.0% or a eurodollar rate plus an
applicable margin of up to 3.0%. The Credit Facility is secured by the assets of
the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and guaranteed by all subsidiaries,
except the Charles Town Joint Venture.

         The net proceeds of the 1997 equity offering, together with cash
generated from operations, borrowings under the 10.625% Senior Notes and the
revolving credit facility, were sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under
the Credit Facility. The Company currently estimates that such proceeds will
also be sufficient to finance its current operations, planned capital
expenditure requirements and the costs associated with the Tennessee development
project. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not be
required to seek additional capital, in addition to that available from the
foregoing sources. The Company may, from time to time, seek additional funding
through public or private financing, including equity financing. There can be no
assurance that adequate funding will be available as needed or, if available, on
terms acceptable to the Company.


Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         All of the Company's debt obligations at December 31, 1997 were fixed
rate obligations, and Management, therefore, does not believe that the Company
has any material market risk from its debt obligations.



ITEM 8  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


                                                                        Page No.
                                                                        --------
        Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants                32
                                                                        
        Consolidated financial statements                               
            Balance sheets                                              33-34
            Statements of income                                        35-36
            Statements of shareholders' equity                            37 
            Statements of cash flows                                    38-39
                                                                        
        Notes to consolidated financial statements                      40-66





Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants



Penn National Gaming, Inc.
  and Subsidiaries
Wyomissing, Pennsylvania

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Penn National
Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1997, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material aspects, the financial position of Penn National Gaming,
Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



                                                         \s\ BDO Seidman, LLP
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                               --------------------
March 2, 1998                                            BDO Seidman, LLP





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                        (In Thousands, Except Share Data)




            See accompany summary of significant accounting policies
                and notes to consolidated financial statements.




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                        (In Thousands, Except Share Data)



            See accompany summary of significant accounting policies
                and notes to consolidated financial statements.






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Statements of Income
                        (In Thousands, Except Share Data)









                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Statements of Income
                        (In Thousands, Except Share Data)



      See accompany summary of significant accounting policies and notes to
                       consolidated financial statements.







                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                        (In Thousands, Except Share Data)




     See accompany summary of significant accounting policies and notes to
                       consolidated financial statements.







                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                 (In Thousands)










                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                 (In Thousands)




            See accompany summary of significant accounting policies
                and notes to consolidated financial statements.





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



1.     Summary of                 Basis of Presentation
       Significant
       Accounting                 The consolidated financial statements include 
       Policies                   the accounts of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and
                                  its subsidiaries (collectively the "Company").
                                  All significant intercompany accounts and
                                  transactions have been eliminated in
                                  consolidation. Certain prior years' amounts
                                  have been reclassified to conform to the 1997
                                  presentation.

                                  Description of Business

                                  The Company, which began operations in 1972,
                                  provides pari-mutuel wagering opportunities on
                                  both live and simulcast thoroughbred and
                                  harness horse races at two racetracks and
                                  seven off-track wagering facilities ("OTWs")
                                  located in Pennsylvania and pari-mutuel
                                  wagering opportunities and video gaming
                                  machines at Charles Town Races, the Company's
                                  Charles Town, West Virginia thoroughbred race
                                  track. Prior to the consummation of the
                                  acquisitions of Pocono Downs and Charles Town
                                  Races (see Note 2), the Company owned and
                                  operated Penn National Race Course located
                                  near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania ("Penn National
                                  Race Course"), and operated four OTWs, one
                                  each in Chambersburg, Lancaster, Reading and
                                  York, Pennsylvania. On November 27, 1996, the
                                  Company consummated the acquisition of Pocono
                                  Downs (the "Pocono Downs Acquisition") and as
                                  a result acquired Pocono Downs Racetrack,
                                  located outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
                                  ("Pocono Downs"), and OTWs in Allentown and
                                  Erie, Pennsylvania. In February 1997, the
                                  Company opened its seventh OTW in
                                  Williamsport, Pennsylvania.

                                  On January 15, 1997, a joint venture, in which
                                  the Company holds an 89% interest, acquired
                                  substantially all of the assets relating to
                                  Charles Town Races, a thoroughbred racing
                                  facility in Jefferson County, West Virginia
                                  (the "Charles Town Acquisition"). The Company
                                  refurbished and reopened the Charles Town
                                  facility as an entertainment complex featuring
                                  live racing, dining, simulcast wagering and,
                                  effective September 1997, Gaming Machines.

                                  At each of its three racetracks, the Company
                                  conducts pari-mutuel wagering on thoroughbred
                                  and harness races from the Company's
                                  racetracks and simulcasts from other
                                  racetracks. The Company also simulcasts its
                                  Penn National Race Course and Pocono Downs
                                  races for wagering at other racetracks and
                                  OTWs, including all Pennsylvania racetracks
                                  and OTWs and locations outside 




                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  Pennsylvania. Wagering on Penn National Race
                                  Course and Pocono Downs races and races
                                  simulcast from other racetracks also occurs
                                  through the Company's Pennsylvania racetracks'
                                  telephone account betting network.

                                  Glossary of Terminology

                                  The following is a listing of terminology used
                                  throughout the financial statements:

                                           The Company's Racetracks - Penn
                                           National Race Course near Harrisburg,
                                           Pennsylvania, Pocono Downs near
                                           Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania and
                                           Charles Town Races in Charles Town,
                                           West Virginia.

                                           Gaming Machines - Video lottery
                                           terminal gaming machines.

                                           OTW - Off-track wagering location.

                                           Pari-mutuel wagering - All wagering
                                           at the Company's racetracks, at the
                                           Company's OTWs and all wagering on
                                           the Company's races at other
                                           racetracks and OTWs.

                                           Telebet - Telephone account wagering.

                                           Totalisator Services - Computer
                                           services provided to the Company by
                                           various totalisator companies for
                                           processing pari-mutuel betting odds
                                           and wagering proceeds.

                                  Pari-mutuel Revenues:

                                           Live Races - The Company's share of
                                           pari-mutuel wagering on live races
                                           within Pennsylvania and West Virginia
                                           and certain stakes races from
                                           racetracks outside of Pennsylvania
                                           and West Virginia after payment of
                                           the amount returned as winning
                                           wagers.

                                           Import Simulcasting - The Company's
                                           share of wagering at the Company's
                                           racetracks, at the Company's OTWs and
                                           by Telebet on full cards of races
                                           simulcast from other racetracks.

                                           Export Simulcasting - The Company's
                                           share of wagering at out-of-state
                                           locations on live races.





                    Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                 A summary of pari-mutuel wagering for the
                                  periods indicated is as follows:




                                  Racing Meet

                                  The Penn National Race Course racing seasons
                                  for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1996
                                  and 1997 totaled 204, 206 and 212 live race
                                  days, respectively. For the year ended
                                  December 31, 1997, the Pocono Downs and
                                  Charles Town Races racing seasons totaled 134
                                  and 159 live race days, respectively.

                                  Depreciation and Amortization

                                  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
                                  and amortization of leasehold improvements are
                                  computed by the straight-line method at rates
                                  adequate to allocate the cost of applicable
                                  assets over their estimated useful lives.
                                  Depreciation and amortization for the years
                                  ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997
                                  amounted to $814,000, $1,301,000 and
                                  $3,193,000, respectively.

                                  The excess of cost over fair value of net
                                  assets acquired is being amortized on the
                                  straight-line method over a forty-year period.
                                  Amortization expense for 1995, 1996 and 1997
                                  amounted to $67,000, $98,000 and $578,000,
                                  respectively. The Company evaluates the
                                  recoverability of the goodwill quarterly, or
                                  more frequently whenever events and
                                  circumstances warrant revised estimates and
                                  considers whether the goodwill should be
                                  completely or partially written off or the
                                  amortization period accelerated.

                                  Deferred financing costs are charged to
                                  operations over the life of the underlying
                                  indebtedness. Amortization of deferred
                                  financing 





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  costs for 1995, 1996 and 1997 amounted to
                                  $-0-, $34,000 and $269,000, respectively.

                                  The Company adopted the provisions of
                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 121 ("SFAS 121") "Accounting for the
                                  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
                                  Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" during
                                  the year ended December 31, 1995. SFAS 121
                                  establishes accounting standards for the
                                  impairment of long-lived assets, certain
                                  identifiable intangibles and goodwill related
                                  to those assets to be held and used and for
                                  long-lived assets and certain identifiable
                                  intangibles to be disposed of. The Company
                                  reviews the carrying values of its long-lived
                                  and identifiable intangible assets for
                                  possible impairment whenever events or changes
                                  in circumstances indicates that the carrying
                                  amount of the assets may not be recoverable
                                  based on undiscounted estimated future
                                  operating cash flows. As of December 31, 1997,
                                  the Company has determined that no impairment
                                  has occurred.

                                  Income Taxes

                                  The Company has adopted the provisions of
                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS
                                  109"). SFAS 109 requires a company to
                                  recognize deferred tax liabilities and assets
                                  for the expected future tax consequences of
                                  events that have been recognized in a
                                  company's financial statements or tax returns.
                                  Under this method, deferred tax liabilities
                                  and assets are determined based on the
                                  difference between the financial statement
                                  carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and
                                  liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect
                                  in the years in which the differences are
                                  expected to reverse.

                                  Cash and Cash Equivalents

                                  The Company considers all cash balances and
                                  highly liquid investments with original
                                  maturities of three months or less to be cash
                                  equivalents.

                                  Net Income Per Common Share

                                  The Company adopted the provisions of
                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 128 ("SFAS 128") "Earnings Per Share" in
                                  1997. SFAS 128 provides for the calculation of
                                  "basic" and "diluted" net income per share.
                                  Basic net income per share includes no
                                  dilution and is calculated by dividing net
                                  income by 





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  the weighted average number of common shares
                                  outstanding for the period. Dilutive net
                                  income per share reflects the potential
                                  dilution of securities that could share in the
                                  net income of the Company which consist of
                                  stock options and warrants (using the treasury
                                  stock method).


                                  Deferred Financing Costs

                                  Deferred financing costs, which are incurred
                                  by the Company in connection with debt, are
                                  charged to operations over the life of the
                                  underlying indebtedness using the interest
                                  method adjusted to give effect to any early
                                  repayments.


                                  Concentration of Credit Risk

                                  Financial instruments which potentially
                                  subject the Company to credit risk consist of
                                  cash equivalents and accounts receivable.

                                  The Company's policy is to limit the amount of
                                  credit exposure to any one financial
                                  institution and place investments with
                                  financial institutions evaluated as being
                                  creditworthy, or in short-term (less than
                                  seven days) money market and tax free bond
                                  funds which are exposed to minimal interest
                                  rate and credit risk. At December 31, 1997,
                                  the Company had bank deposits which exceeded
                                  federally insured limits by approximately
                                  $960,000 and money market and tax free bond
                                  funds of approximately $18,939,000.
                                  Concentration of credit risk, with respect to
                                  accounts receivable, is limited due to the
                                  Company's credit evaluation process. The
                                  Company does not require collateral from its
                                  customers. The Company's receivables consist
                                  principally of amounts due from other
                                  racetracks and OTWs. Historically, the Company
                                  has not incurred any significant credit
                                  related losses.

                                  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

                                  The following methods and assumptions are used
                                  to estimate the fair value of each class of
                                  financial instruments for which it is
                                  practical to estimate.

                                            Cash and Cash Equivalents: The
                                            carrying amount approximates the
                                            fair value due to the short maturity
                                            of the cash equivalents.

                                            Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease
                                            Obligations: The fair value of the
                                            Company's long-term debt and capital
                                            lease 





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                            obligations is estimated based on
                                            the quoted market prices for the
                                            same or similar issues or on the
                                            current rates offered to the Company
                                            for debt of the same remaining
                                            maturities. The carrying amount
                                            approximates fair value since the
                                            Company's interest rates approximate
                                            current interest rates.

                                  Prepaid Acquisition Costs

                                  Prepaid acquisition costs, which were incurred
                                  by the Company substantially in connection
                                  with the Charles Town Acquisition (see Note
                                  2), are included in the purchase price of the
                                  Charles Town Acquisition and allocated to the
                                  appropriate assets.

                                  Use of Estimates

                                  The preparation of financial statements in
                                  conformity with generally accepted accounting
                                  principles requires management to make
                                  estimates and assumptions that affect the
                                  reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
                                  disclosure of contingent assets and
                                  liabilities at the date of the financial
                                  statements and the reported amounts of revenue
                                  and expenses at the reporting period. Actual
                                  results could differ from those estimates.

                                  Recent Accounting Pronouncements

                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 129, "Disclosure of Information about
                                  Capital Structure" ("SFAS 129"), effective for
                                  periods ending after December 15, 1997,
                                  establishes standards for disclosing
                                  information about an entity's capital
                                  structure. SFAS 129 requires disclosure of the
                                  pertinent rights and privileges of various
                                  securities outstanding (stock, options,
                                  warrants, preferred stock, debt and
                                  participation rights) including dividend and
                                  liquidation preferences, participant rights,
                                  call prices and dates, conversion or exercise
                                  prices and redemption requirements. Adoption
                                  of SFAS 129 will have no effect on the Company
                                  because it currently discloses the information
                                  specified.

                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income"
                                  ("SFAS 130"), establishes standards for
                                  reporting and display of comprehensive income,
                                  its components and accumulated balances.
                                  Comprehensive income is defined to include all
                                  changes in equity except those resulting from
                                  investments by owners and distributions to
                                  owners. Among other disclosures, SFAS 130
                                  requires that all items that are required to
                                  be recognized under current accounting
                                  standards as components 





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  of comprehensive income be reported in a
                                  financial statement that is displayed with the
                                  same prominence as other financial statements.

                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 131, "Disclosure about Segments of a
                                  Business Enterprise" ("SFAS 131"), establishes
                                  standards for the way that public enterprises
                                  report information about operating segments in
                                  annual financial statements and requires
                                  reporting of selected information about
                                  operating segments in interim financial
                                  statements issued to the public. It also
                                  establishes standards for disclosures
                                  regarding products and services, geographic
                                  areas and major customers. SFAS 131 defines
                                  operating segments as components of an
                                  enterprise about which separate financial
                                  information is available and that is evaluated
                                  regularly by the chief operating decision
                                  maker in deciding how to allocate resources
                                  and in assessing performance.

                                  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                                  No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures about
                                  Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits"
                                  ("SFAS 132"), revises employers' disclosures
                                  about pension and other postretirement benefit
                                  plans. It does not change the measurement or
                                  recognition of those plans. It standardizes
                                  the disclosure requirements for pensions and
                                  other postretirement benefits to the extent
                                  practicable, requires additional information
                                  on changes in the benefit obligations and fair
                                  values of plan assets that will facilitate
                                  financial analysis and eliminates certain
                                  existing disclosure requirements.

                                  SFAS 130, SFAS 131 and SFAS 132 are effective
                                  for financial statements for periods beginning
                                  after December 15, 1997 and require
                                  comparative information for earlier years to
                                  be restated. Due to the recent issuance of
                                  these standards, management has been unable to
                                  fully evaluate the impact, if any, they may
                                  have on future financial statement
                                  disclosures.

2.     Acquisitions               Pocono Downs Acquisition

                                  On November 27, 1996, the Company purchased
                                  all of the capital stock of The Plains Company
                                  and the limited partnership interests in The
                                  Plains Company's affiliated entities
                                  (together, "Pocono Downs") for an aggregate
                                  purchase price of $48.2 million plus
                                  acquisition-related fees and expenses of
                                  $730,000. Pocono Downs conducts live harness
                                  racing at the harness racetrack located
                                  outside Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, export
                                  simulcasting of 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  Pocono Downs races to locations throughout the
                                  United States, pari-mutuel wagering at Pocono
                                  Downs and at OTWs in Allentown and Erie,
                                  Pennsylvania on Pocono Downs races and on
                                  import simulcast races from other racetracks,
                                  and telephone account wagering on live and
                                  import simulcast races.

                                  The Pocono Downs Acquisition was accounted for
                                  using the purchase method of accounting.
                                  Accordingly, a portion of the purchase price
                                  was allocated to the net assets acquired based
                                  on their estimated fair values. In accordance
                                  with SFAS 109, the Company recorded an
                                  additional increase to goodwill of
                                  approximately $9.7 million and a corresponding
                                  increase to a deferred tax liability,
                                  representing the difference between the
                                  financial and tax bases of certain assets
                                  acquired.

                                  The results of operations of Pocono Downs have
                                  been included in the Company's consolidated
                                  financial statements since the effective date
                                  of the acquisition. The balance of the
                                  purchase price was recorded at cost over net
                                  assets acquired as goodwill, approximately
                                  $10.4 million, and is being amortized over
                                  forty years on a straight-line basis. The
                                  Company used its Credit Facility (see Note 3)
                                  and cash of Pocono Downs to fund the
                                  acquisition.

                                  In addition, pursuant to the terms of the
                                  purchase agreement, the Company will be
                                  required to pay the sellers of Pocono Downs an
                                  additional $10 million if, within five years
                                  after the consummation of the Pocono Downs
                                  Acquisition, Pennsylvania authorizes any
                                  additional form of gaming in which the Company
                                  may participate. The $10 million payment would
                                  be payable in annual installments of $2
                                  million for five years, beginning on the date
                                  that the Company first offers such additional
                                  form of gaming.

                                  Charles Town Acquisition

                                  On February 26, 1996, the Company entered into
                                  a joint venture agreement (the "Charles Town
                                  Joint Venture") with Bryant Development
                                  Company and its affiliates ("Bryant"), the
                                  holder of an option to purchase substantially
                                  all of the assets of Charles Town Racing
                                  Limited Partnership and Charles Town Races,
                                  Inc. (together, "Charles Town") relating to
                                  the Charles Town Race Track and Shenandoah
                                  Downs (together, the "Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex") in Jefferson County,
                                  West Virginia. In connection with the Charles
                                  Town Joint Venture agreement, Bryant assigned
                                  the option to the Charles Town Joint Venture.
                                  In 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  November 1996, the Charles Town Joint Venture
                                  and Charles Town entered into an amended and
                                  restated option agreement. On November 5,
                                  1996, Jefferson County, West Virginia approved
                                  a referendum permitting installation of gaming
                                  machines at the Charles Town Entertainment
                                  Complex. On January 15, 1997, the Charles Town
                                  Joint Venture acquired substantially all of
                                  the assets of Charles Town for approximately
                                  $16.0 million plus acquisition-related fees
                                  and expenses of approximately $2.2 million.

                                  Pursuant to the original operating agreement
                                  governing the Charles Town Joint Venture, the
                                  Company held an 80% ownership interest in the
                                  Charles Town Joint Venture and was obligated
                                  to contribute 80% of the purchase price of the
                                  Charles Town Acquisition and 80% of the cost
                                  of refurbishing and Charles Town Entertainment
                                  Complex. In consideration of the fact that the
                                  Company contributed 100% of the purchase price
                                  of the Charles Town Acquisition and 100% of
                                  the cost of refurbishing the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex, the Company amended its
                                  operating agreement with Bryant to, among
                                  other things, increase the Company's ownership
                                  interest in the Charles Town Joint Venture to
                                  89% and decrease Bryant's interest to 11%. In
                                  addition, the amendment provided that the
                                  entire amount the Company has contributed to
                                  the Charles Town Joint Venture for the
                                  acquisition and refurbishment of the Charles
                                  Town Entertainment Complex would be treated,
                                  as between the parties, as a loan to the
                                  Charles Town Joint Venture from the Company.
                                  Accordingly, prior to the distribution of any
                                  profits pursuant to the Charles Town Joint
                                  Venture, the Company must be repaid in full
                                  all such contributions or loans, plus accrued
                                  interest, which as of December 31, 1997,
                                  amounted to $45.9 million.

                                  Bryant had acquired its option from Showboat
                                  Operating Company ("Showboat"). Showboat has
                                  retained an option (the "Showboat Option") to
                                  operate any casino at the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex in return for a
                                  management fee (to be negotiated at the time,
                                  based on rates payable for similar properties)
                                  and a right of first refusal to purchase or
                                  lease the site of any casino at the Charles
                                  Town Entertainment Complex proposed to be
                                  leased or sold and to purchase any interest
                                  proposed to be sold in any such casino on the
                                  same terms offered by a third party or
                                  otherwise negotiated with the Charles Town
                                  Joint Venture. The rights retained by Showboat
                                  under the Showboat Option extend for a period
                                  of five years from November 6, 1996, the date
                                  that the Charles Town Joint Venture exercised
                                  its option to purchase the Charles Town Races,
                                  and expires thereafter unless legislation to





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  permit casino gaming at the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex has been adopted prior
                                  to the end of the five-year period. If such
                                  legislation has been adopted prior to such
                                  time, then the rights of Showboat continue for
                                  a reasonable time (not less than 24 months) to
                                  permit completion of negotiations.

                                  While the express terms of the Showboat Option
                                  do not specify which activities at the Charles
                                  Town Entertainment Complex would constitute
                                  operation of a casino, Showboat has agreed
                                  that the installation and operation of gaming
                                  devices linked to the lottery (like the Gaming
                                  Machines the Company has installed and will
                                  continue to install) at the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex's racetrack would not
                                  trigger Showboat's right to exercise the
                                  Showboat Option. The Company would be required
                                  to pay a management fee to Showboat for the
                                  operation of the casino.

                                  The Charles Town Joint Venture refurbished and
                                  reopened the Charles Town Entertainment
                                  Complex as an entertainment complex that
                                  features live racing, dining, simulcast
                                  wagering and, effective September 1997, the
                                  operation of gaming machines. The cost of the
                                  refurbishment was approximately $27.0 million
                                  inclusive of $614,000 of capitalized interest
                                  and exclusive of the costs of leasing gaming
                                  machines through December 31, 1997.
                                  Construction in progress at December 31, 1997
                                  primarily consists of approximately $9.5
                                  million related to the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex refurbishments. The
                                  estimated cost to complete these
                                  refurbishments as of December 31, 1997 is
                                  approximately $475,000.

                                  Effective June 4, 1996, the Charles Town Joint
                                  Venture entered into a Loan and Security
                                  Agreement with Charles Town. The Loan and
                                  Security Agreement provided for a working
                                  capital line of credit in the amount of
                                  $1,250,000 and a requisite reduction of the
                                  purchase price under the option, by $1.60 for
                                  each dollar borrowed under that line. Upon
                                  consummation of the Charles Town Acquisition,
                                  Charles Town Races, Inc. repaid the loan. The
                                  parties agreed that $936,000 of the amount
                                  borrowed was eligible for the $1.60 purchase
                                  price reduction and are negotiating the
                                  applicability of the purchase price reduction
                                  to the remaining $219,000 that was borrowed.

                                  The Charles Town Acquisition was accounted for
                                  using the purchase method of accounting.
                                  Accordingly, a portion of the purchase price
                                  was allocated to the net assets acquired based
                                  on their estimated fair values. The balance of
                                  the purchase price was recorded as cost over
                                  net assets acquired as goodwill, 





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  approximately $1.7 million, and is being
                                  amortized over forty years on a straight-line
                                  basis. The Company used its credit facility
                                  (see Note 3) and cash from operations to fund
                                  the acquisition.

                                  The 1997 results of operations of Charles Town
                                  have been included in the Company's
                                  consolidated financial statements since
                                  January 15, 1997, the effective date of the
                                  acquisition. The 1997 results of Charles Town
                                  closely represents a full year of operations
                                  and the 1996 results of Charles Town are
                                  immaterial to the financial statements taken
                                  as a whole, therefore, no pro forma financial
                                  information is presented.








                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  Credit Facilities

                                  At December 31, 1996 and 1997, the Company was
                                  contingently obligated under letters of credit
                                  with face amounts aggregating $1,436,000 and
                                  $1,634,000, respectively. These amounts
                                  consisted of $1,336,000 and $1,534,000,
                                  respectively, relating to the horsemens'
                                  account balances and $100,000 for Pennsylvania
                                  pari-mutuel taxes in each period.

                                  In November 1996, the Company entered into an
                                  agreement with a bank group which provides an
                                  aggregate of $75 million of credit facilities,
                                  which included a $5 million revolving credit
                                  facility ("1996 Credit Facility").
                                  Simultaneously with the closing of the 1996
                                  Credit Facility, the Company repaid amounts
                                  outstanding under its old credit facility and
                                  replaced it. The 1996 Credit Facility
                                  consisted of two term loan facilities of $47
                                  million and $23 million (together, the "Term
                                  Loans") which were used for the Pocono Downs
                                  and Charles Town acquisitions, respectively,
                                  and which were used for a portion of the cost
                                  of refurbishment of the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex, and a revolving credit
                                  facility of $5 million (together, the
                                  "Loans"). The Term Loans were repaid in
                                  December 1997 with the proceeds of the
                                  Company's debt offering. See "Debt Offering"
                                  hereinafter. At such time the 1996 Credit
                                  Facility was amended and restated to provide
                                  for a $12 million revolving credit facility,
                                  including a $3 million sublimit for standby
                                  letters of credit, which matures in December
                                  2002. The revolving credit facility is secured
                                  by substantially all of the assets of the
                                  Company. The revolving credit facility
                                  provides for certain covenants, including
                                  those of a financial nature. The Company would
                                  not have been in compliance with certain
                                  covenants had the bank group not granted
                                  waiver of certain technical defaults regarding
                                  minimum consolidated net worth, consolidated
                                  cash interest coverage ratio and minimum
                                  leverage ratio. However, at December 31, 1997
                                  the Company had not drawn any portion of the
                                  revolving credit facility (although a $1.6
                                  million letter of credit was issued against
                                  such revolving credit facility) and had
                                  adequate capital resources even without
                                  consideration of its revolving credit
                                  facility.

                                  At the Company's option, the revolving
                                  facility may bear interest at the highest of:
                                  (1) 1/2 of 1% in excess of the federal reserve
                                  reported certificate of deposit rate, (2) the
                                  rate that the bank group announces from time
                                  to time as its prime lending rate and (3) 1/2
                                  of 1% in excess of the federal funds rate plus
                                  an applicable margin of 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  up to 2% or the revolving facility may also
                                  bear interest at a rate tied to a eurodollar
                                  rate plus an applicable margin of up to 3%.

                                  Mandatory repayments of the revolving facility
                                  are required in an amount equal to a
                                  percentage of the net cash proceeds from any
                                  issuance or incurrence of equity or funded
                                  debt by the Company, that percentage to be
                                  dependent upon the then outstanding balance of
                                  the revolving facility and the Company's
                                  leverage ratio; however, the existing credit
                                  facility, as amended, permitted the Company to
                                  retain up to the first $19 million of proceeds
                                  from an offering of the Company's equity
                                  securities. Mandatory repayments of varying
                                  percentages are also required in the event of
                                  either asset sales in excess of stipulated
                                  amounts or defined excess cash flow.

                                  Debt Offering

                                  On December 12, 1997, the Company and certain
                                  of its subsidiaries (as guarantors) entered
                                  into a purchase agreement for the sale and
                                  issuance of $80,000,000 aggregate principal
                                  amount of its 10.625% Senior Notes due 2004
                                  (the "Offering"). The net proceeds of the
                                  Offering were used for repayment of existing
                                  indebtedness, for capital expenditures and for
                                  general corporate purposes. Interest on the
                                  notes will accrue from their date of original
                                  issuance (the "Issue Date") and will be
                                  payable semi-annually, commencing in 1998. The
                                  notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part,
                                  at the option of the Company in 2001 or
                                  thereafter at the redemption prices set forth
                                  in the Offering, plus accrued and unpaid
                                  interest to the date of redemption.

                                  The notes are general unsecured senior
                                  obligations of the Company and rank equally in
                                  right of payment to any existing and future
                                  unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company and
                                  senior in right of payment with all existing
                                  and future subordinated indebtedness of the
                                  Company. The notes are unconditionally
                                  guaranteed (the "Guarantees") on a senior
                                  basis by certain of the Company's existing
                                  subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors").
                                  The Guarantees are general unsecured
                                  obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors and
                                  rank equally in right of payment to any
                                  unsubordinated indebtedness of the Subsidiary
                                  Guarantors and rank senior in right of payment
                                  to all other subordinated obligations of the
                                  Subsidiary Guarantors. The notes are
                                  effectively subordinated in right of payment
                                  to all secured indebtedness of the






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  Company, including indebtedness incurred under
                                  the amended $12 million revolving credit
                                  facility.






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  The following is a schedule of future minimum
                                  lease payments under capitalized leases and
                                  repayments of long-term debt, as of December
                                  31, 1997:



                                  On February 18, 1997, the Company completed a
                                  secondary public offering of 1,725,000 shares
                                  of common stock and used $19 million of the
                                  $23 million proceeds therefrom to reduce the
                                  then outstanding Term Loan amounts (see Note
                                  8).

4.     Customer                   Customer deposits represent amounts held by 
       Deposits                   the Company for telephone wagering.

5.     Commitments                In November 1997, the Company  signed a new  
       and                        Totalisator services and equipment agreement 
       Contingencies              for all of its subsidiaries. The agreement is 
                                  for five years, expiring on March 31, 2003.
                                  The new agreement provides for annual payments
                                  based on a specified percentage of the total
                                  amount wagered at the Company's facilities
                                  with a minimum annual payment of $1,475,000.

                                  The Company is also liable under numerous
                                  operating leases for automobiles, other
                                  equipment and buildings, which expire through
                                  2004. Total rental expense under these
                                  agreements were $672,000, $1,001,000 and
                                  $807,000 for the years ended December 31,
                                  1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.



 

                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  The future lease commitments relating to
                                  noncancelable operating leases as of December
                                  31, 1997 are as follows:

                                                                 (In thousands)
                                       1998                        $   1,035
                                       1999                            1,084
                                       2000                            1,099
                                       2001                            1,067
                                       2002                            1,070
                                       Thereafter                      1,696
                                                                   ---------

                                                                   $   7,051
                                                                   ---------

                                  On April 12, 1994, the Company entered into
                                  employment agreements with its Chairman and
                                  Chief Financial Officer at annual base
                                  salaries of $225,000 and $95,000,
                                  respectively. The agreements became effective
                                  June 1, 1994 and, as amended, terminate on
                                  June 30, 1999. Each agreement prohibits the
                                  employee from competing with the Company
                                  during its term and for one year thereafter,
                                  and requires a death benefit payment by the
                                  Company equal to 50% of the employee's annual
                                  salary in effect at the time of death.

                                  In August 1994, the Company signed a
                                  consulting agreement with its former Chairman
                                  expiring in August 1999 at an annual payment
                                  of $125,000.

                                  On June 1, 1995, the Company entered into an
                                  employment agreement with its President and
                                  Chief Operating Officer at an annual base
                                  salary of $210,000. The agreement terminates
                                  on June 12, 1998. The agreement prohibits the
                                  employee from competing with the Company
                                  during its term and for two years thereafter,
                                  and requires a death benefit payment by the
                                  Company equal to 50% of the employee's annual
                                  salary in effect at the time of his death.

                                  Under an agreement between the Company and its
                                  former president, the former president
                                  received options to purchase 150,000 shares of
                                  common stock at the fair value as of the date
                                  of grant of $3.33 per share expiring May 31,
                                  2000.

                                  The Company has two profit sharing plans under
                                  the provisions of Section 401(k) of the
                                  Internal Revenue Code; The Penn National
                                  Gaming, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan (the "Penn
                                  National 401(k) Plan") and the Pocono Downs
                                  Inc. Profit Sharing Plan 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  (the "Pocono Downs 401(k) Plan") cover all
                                  eligible employees who are not members of a
                                  bargaining unit. Both Plans enable employees
                                  choosing to participate to defer a portion of
                                  their salary in a retirement fund to be
                                  administered by the Company. The Company's
                                  contributions to the Penn National 401(k) Plan
                                  are set at 50% of employees' elective salary
                                  deferrals which may be made up to a maximum of
                                  6% of employee compensation. The Company has
                                  no obligation to contribute to the Pocono
                                  Downs 401(k) plan. However, for the years
                                  ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997 the
                                  Company has made discretionary contributions
                                  to the Pocono Downs 401(k) Plan based upon a
                                  percentage of the employee elective deferrals
                                  which may be made up to a maximum of 15% of
                                  employee compensation. The Company made
                                  contributions to these plans of approximately
                                  $70,000, $89,000 and $145,000 for the years
                                  ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997,
                                  respectively.

                                  Charles Town has a defined contribution plan
                                  covering substantially all of its employees.
                                  Charles Town makes monthly contributions equal
                                  to the amount accrued for retirement expense,
                                  which is calculated as .25% of the daily
                                  mutual handle and .5% of the net video lottery
                                  revenues. Total contributions for the year
                                  ended December 31, 1997 was $114,000.

                                  In June 1997, the Charles Town Joint Venture,
                                  which is operated as PNGI Charles Town Gaming,
                                  LLC, an 89% subsidiary of the Company entered
                                  into an agreement (the "GTECH Agreement") with
                                  GTECH relating to the lease, installation and
                                  service of a video lottery system ("VLS") at
                                  the Charles Town Entertainment Complex. The
                                  GTECH Agreement provides that GTECH will be
                                  the exclusive provider of VLS and related
                                  services, including video lottery terminals
                                  and slot machines, if any, at the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex; provided, however, the
                                  Charles Town Joint Venture has retained
                                  management control over the VLS. The GTECH
                                  Agreement has a term of five years from the
                                  first date on which 400 Gaming Machines are
                                  installed, operational and generating net win
                                  (total of all cash inserted into, or game
                                  credits played on, a video lottery terminal
                                  minus the total value of all prizes paid).
                                  Pursuant to the GTECH Agreement, the Charles
                                  Town Joint Venture has agreed to pay GTECH a
                                  fee which can range between 4% and 10% of
                                  Gaming Machine gross revenue. The Company
                                  generally is obligated to pay a lower
                                  percentage of Gaming Machine gross revenue to
                                  GTECH at higher levels of average win per day
                                  per machine and a higher percentage of Gaming
                                  Machine gross revenue at lower levels of
                                  average win per 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  day per machine; provided, however, the
                                  Charles Town Joint Venture is obligated to pay
                                  GTECH the greater of the percentage fee
                                  described above or a minimum annual fee of
                                  $4.3 million if more than 800 Gaming Machines
                                  are in operation at the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex. The payments pursuant
                                  to the GTECH Agreement include the cost of the
                                  rental of the Gaming Machines, the rental of
                                  the software (which is not a component of the
                                  VLS, as defined), technical assistance and
                                  programming services, maintenance and
                                  marketing services. At the end of the term of
                                  the GTECH Agreement, the Charles Town Joint
                                  Venture will purchase the VLS from GTECH for a
                                  cash purchase price equal to the net
                                  unamortized residual value of the VLS. In the
                                  event GTECH terminates the agreement because
                                  of the Charles Town Joint Venture's material
                                  misrepresentation and/or breach of the GTECH
                                  Agreement, the Charles Town Joint Venture must
                                  purchase the VLS from GTECH at a price equal
                                  to the net unamortized residual value of the
                                  VLS at that time and pay an additional
                                  one-time fee as follows: for such termination
                                  in the first year of the term, $8.5 million,
                                  for such termination in the second year of the
                                  term, $6.6 million; for such termination in
                                  the third year of the term, $5.0 million; for
                                  such termination in the fourth year of the
                                  term, $3.7 million; and for such termination
                                  in the fifth year of the term, $2.5 million.
                                  Pursuant to the GTECH Agreement, the Charles
                                  Town Joint Venture must maintain tangible net
                                  worth equal to at least 105% of the amounts
                                  payable as additional fees in the event of a
                                  termination as set forth in the preceding
                                  sentence.

                                  On March 26, 1997, the Company entered into an
                                  agreement to purchase property for its
                                  Carbondale, Pennsylvania OTW facility. The
                                  agreement provides for a purchase price of
                                  $200,000 and is subject to numerous
                                  contingencies, including approval by the
                                  Pennsylvania State Harness Racing Commission
                                  (the "Harness Racing Commission"). On June 5,
                                  1997, the Company's application was approved
                                  by the Harness Racing Commission. In October
                                  1997, the Company entered into a construction
                                  contract regarding the Carbondale OTW
                                  facility. Commitments under this contract at
                                  December 31, 1997 were approximately $1.2
                                  million. The Company expects to have the
                                  facility constructed and operational in the
                                  first quarter of 1998.

                                  On June 20, 1997, the Company acquired options
                                  to purchase approximately 100 acres of land in
                                  Memphis, Tennessee for an aggregate purchase
                                  price of $2.7 million. The Company paid
                                  $11,000 to acquire the options and has the
                                  right to extend the 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  options from month to month until June 20,
                                  1998 upon the payment of $11,000 per month.
                                  The Company has filed an application to the
                                  Tennessee State Racing Commission for the
                                  proposed development of a harness racetrack
                                  and off-track wagering facility at the site on
                                  October 9, 1997. The Company anticipates to
                                  hear the results of the Commission's review of
                                  the application during the second quarter of
                                  1998.

                                  On July 9, 1997, the Company entered into a
                                  lease agreement for its Hazleton, Pennsylvania
                                  OTW facility. The initial term of the lease is
                                  for ten years with two additional five-year
                                  renewal options available. This lease provides
                                  for minimum annual lease payments of $98,400
                                  in years one through five and $108,240 in
                                  years six through ten. The agreement is
                                  subject to numerous contingencies, including
                                  approval by the Harness Racing Commission. On
                                  September 26, 1997, the Company's application
                                  was approved by the Harness Racing Commission.
                                  In November 1997, the Company entered into a
                                  construction contract regarding the Hazleton
                                  OTW facility. Commitments under this contract
                                  at December 31, 1997 were approximately $1.2
                                  million. The Company expects to have the
                                  facility constructed and operational in the
                                  first quarter of 1998.

                                  On September 9, 1997, the Company entered into
                                  a lease agreement for its Stroudsburg,
                                  Pennsylvania OTW facility. The initial term of
                                  the lease is for ten years with two additional
                                  five-year renewal options available. This
                                  lease provides for minimum annual lease
                                  payments of $101,640 during its initial term.
                                  The table above does not reflect this lease
                                  commitment. The agreement is subject to
                                  numerous contingencies, including approval by
                                  the Harness Racing Commission. On November 6,
                                  1997, the Company's application was approved
                                  by the Harness Racing Commission. The Company
                                  is awaiting land development plan approvals
                                  and has no definitive date of opening at this
                                  time.

                                  On September 26, 1997, the Company entered
                                  into a lease agreement for its proposed
                                  Altoona, Pennsylvania OTW facility. The
                                  initial term of the lease is for ten years
                                  with two additional five-year renewal options
                                  available. This lease provides for minimum
                                  annual lease payments of $92,400 during its
                                  initial term. The table presented above does
                                  not reflect this lease commitment. The
                                  agreement is subjected to numerous
                                  contingencies, including approval by the
                                  Pennsylvania State Horse Racing Commission. On
                                  January 15, 1998, the Company's application
                                  was approved by the Pennsylvania State Horse
                                  Racing Commission. The Company 






                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  expects to have the facility renovated and
                                  operational in the third quarter of 1998.

                                  The Company is subject to possible liabilities
                                  arising from environmental conditions at the
                                  landfill adjacent to Pocono Downs racetrack.
                                  Specifically, the Company may incur expenses
                                  in connection with the landfill in the future,
                                  which expenses may not be reimbursed by the
                                  four municipalities which are parties to an
                                  existing settlement agreement. The Company is
                                  unable to estimate the amount, if any, that it
                                  may be required to expend.





                   Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements









                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


7.     Supplemental               Cash paid during the year for interest was 
       Disclosures of             $71,000, $506,000 and $4,346,000 in 1995, 
       Cash Flow                  1996 and 1997, respectively.
       Information
                                  Cash paid during the year for income taxes was
                                  $2,839,000, $2,490,000 and $3,649,000 in 1995,
                                  1996 and 1997, respectively.

                                  Noncash investing and financing activities
                                  were as follows:

                                  During 1996, the Company purchased Pocono
                                  Downs for an aggregate purchase price of
                                  $47,320,000, net of cash acquired. In
                                  conjunction with the acquisition, liabilities
                                  were assumed as follows:




                                  During 1996, the Company issued a $250,000
                                  long-term note payable for the incurrence of
                                  prepaid Charles Town Acquisition costs.

8.     Common Stock               On February 18, 1997, the Company completed a
                                  secondary public offering of 1,725,000 shares
                                  of its common stock. The net proceeds of $23
                                  million were used to reduce $19 million of the
                                  Term Loan amounts outstanding under the
                                  Existing Credit Facility with the balance of
                                  the proceeds used to finance a portion of the
                                  cost of the refurbishment of the Charles Town
                                  Entertainment Complex (see Note 2 for
                                  Acquisitions).

                                  In April 1994, the Company's Board of
                                  Directors and shareholders adopted and
                                  approved the Stock Option Plan ("Plan"). On
                                  April 30, 1997, the shareholders and the Board
                                  of Directors approved an increase in the
                                  number of authorized shares underlying stock
                                  options to be granted from 1,290,000 to
                                  2,000,000 shares. Therefore, the Plan permits
                                  the grant of options to purchase up to
                                  2,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to
                                  antidilution adjustments, at a price per share
                                  no less than 100% of the fair market value of
                                  the Common Stock on the date an option is
                                  granted with respect to incentive stock
                                  options only. The price would be no less than
                                  110% of fair market value in the case of an
                                  incentive stock option granted to any
                                  individual who owns more than 10% of the total
                                  combined voting power of all classes of
                                  outstanding stock. The Plan provides for the
                                  granting of both incentive stock options
                                  intended to qualify under Section 422 of the
                                  Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and
                                  nonqualified stock options which do not so
                                  qualify. Unless the Plan is terminated earlier
                                  by the Board of Directors, the Plan will
                                  terminate in April 2004.

                                  Stock options that expire between May 26, 2001
                                  and October 23, 2006 have been granted to
                                  officers and directors to purchase Common
                                  Stock at prices ranging from $3.33 to $17.63
                                  per share.







                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  All options and warrants were granted at
                                  market prices at date of grant. The following
                                  table contains information on stock options
                                  issued under the Plan for the three year
                                  period ended December 31, 1997:



                                  In addition, 300,000 common stock options were
                                  issued outside the Plan on October 23, 1996.
                                  These options were issued at $17.63 per share
                                  and are exercisable through October 23, 2006.

                                  Exercisable at year-end:









                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  The following table summarizes information
                                  about stock options outstanding at December
                                  31, 1997:



                                  Warrants outstanding have been granted to the
                                  underwriters of the Company's initial public
                                  offering and to certain officers and directors
                                  to purchase Common Stock at prices ranging
                                  from $3.33 to $4.00 per share which expire on
                                  June 2, 1999 and May 31, 2000.





  

                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  During 1995, the Company canceled 150,000
                                  warrants which were granted to a former
                                  officer of the Company at a price of $3.33 per
                                  share and were to expire on May 31, 2000. The
                                  150,000 canceled warrants were replaced with
                                  150,000 shares of common stock purchase
                                  options at an exercise price of $3.33 per
                                  share. A summary of the warrant transactions
                                  follows:
  


                                  During 1995, the FASB adopted Statement of
                                  Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS
                                  123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based
                                  Compensation", which has recognition
                                  provisions that establish a fair value based
                                  method of accounting for stock-based employee
                                  compensation plans and established fair value
                                  as the measurement basis for transactions in
                                  which an entity acquires goods or services
                                  from nonemployees in exchange for equity
                                  instruments. SFAS 123 also has certain
                                  disclosure provisions. Adoption of the
                                  recognition provisions of SFAS 123 with regard
                                  to these transactions with nonemployees was
                                  required for all such transactions entered
                                  into after December 15, 1994, and the Company
                                  adopted these provisions as required. The
                                  recognition provision with regard to the fair
                                  value based method of accounting for
                                  stock-based employee compensation plans is
                                  optional. Accounting Principles Board Opinion
                                  No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to
                                  Employers" ("APB 25") uses what is referred to
                                  as an intrinsic value based method of
                                  accounting. The Company has decided to
                                  continue to apply APB 25 for its stock-based
                                  employee compensation arrangements.




                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  Accordingly, no compensation cost has been
                                  recognized. Had compensation cost for the
                                  Company's employee stock option plan been
                                  determined based on the fair value at the
                                  grant date for awards under the plan
                                  consistent with the method of SFAS 123, the
                                  Company's net income and net income per share
                                  would have been reduced to the pro forma
                                  amounts indicated below:


                                  The fair value of each option and warrant
                                  grant is estimated on the date of grant using
                                  the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
                                  the following weighted-average assumptions
                                  used for grants in 1995, 1996 and 1997:
                                  dividend yield of 0%; expected volatility of
                                  20%; risk-free interest rate of 6%; and
                                  expected lives of 5 years. The effects of
                                  applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma disclosure
                                  are not indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123
                                  does not apply to awards prior to 1995 and
                                  additional awards in future years are
                                  anticipated.

9.     Loss From                  In 1997, the Company recorded an extraordinary
       Retirement                 loss of $1,482,000 after taxes for the early 
       of Debt                    retirement of debt. The extraordinary loss
                                  consists primarily of write-offs of deferred
                                  finance costs associated with the retired
                                  notes and legal and bank fees relating to the
                                  early extinguishment of the debt.

10.    Site Development           During 1997, the Company incurred site 
       and Restructuring          development ($1,735,000) and restructuring 
       Charges                    ($702,000) charges of $2,437,000. The site 
                                  development charges consist of $800,000
                                  related to the Charles Town Races facility and
                                  $935,000 related to the abandonment of certain
                                  certain proposed operating sites during 1997.
                                  The restructuring charges primarily consist of
                                  $350,000 in severance termination benefits and
                                  other charges at the Charles Town Races
                                  facility; $300,000 for the restructuring of
                                  the Erie, Pennsylvania off-track wagering
                                  facility and $52,000 of property and equipment
                                  written-off in connection with the
                                  discontinuation of Penn National Speedway,
                                  Inc. operations during 1997. These charges,
                                  net of 





                  Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                  income taxes, decreased the 1997 net income
                                  and diluted net income per share by $1,462,000
                                  and $0.09 per share, respectively.





ITEM 9  CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        Not Applicable





                                    PART III

ITEM 10  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from
         the Company's definitive proxy statement with respect to the Company's
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 20, 1998. Such proxy
         statement shall be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under
         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 120 days after
         the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from
         the Company's definitive proxy statement with respect to the Company's
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 20, 1998. Such proxy
         statement shall be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under
         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 120 days after
         the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 12  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from
         the Company's definitive proxy statement with respect to the Company's
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 20, 1998. Such proxy
         statement shall be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under
         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 120 days after
         the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 13  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from
         the Company's definitive proxy statement with respect to the Company's
         Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 20, 1998. Such proxy
         statement shall be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under
         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 120 days after
         the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A) (1)   The Financial Statements included in the Index to Part II, Item 8, are
          filed as part of this Report

    (2)   List of Exhibits

EXHIBIT

NO.      DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- ---      ----------------------

1.       Purchase Agreement

2.1      Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 11, 1994 among the
         Registrant, Carlino Family Partnership, Carlino Financial Corporation
         and the shareholders and general partners of the entities now
         comprising Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May
         26, 1994.)

2.1.1    Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 26, 1994
         among the Registrant, Carlino Family Partnership, Carlino Financial
         Corporation and the shareholders and general partners of the entities
         now comprising Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated
         May 26, 1994.)

2.2      Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 11, 1994 between the
         Registrant and Thomas J. Gorman. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May
         26, 1994.)

2.2.1    Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 26, 1994
         between the Registrant and Thomas J. Gorman. (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758,
         dated May 26, 1994.)

2.3      Closing Agreement dated January 15, 1997 among Charles Town Races,
         Inc., Charles Town Racing Limited Partnership, and PNGI Charles Town
         Gaming Limited Liability Company. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated
         January 30, 1997.)

2.4      Amended and Restated Operating Agreement dated as of December 31, 1996
         among Penn National Gaming of West Virginia, Inc., Bryant Development
         Company and PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
         Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)




2.5      Letter dated January 14, 1997 from Peter M. Carlino to James A. Reeder
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
         Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)

2.6      First Amendment and Consent dated as of January 7, 1997 among the
         Company, Bankers Trust Company as Agent, CoreStates Bank, N.A. as
         Co-Agent, and certain banks party to the Credit Agreement dated as of
         November 27, 1996 (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form 8-K, File #0-24206, dated January 30,
         1997.)

2.7      Amended and Restated Option Agreement dated as of February 17, 1995
         among Charles Town Races, Inc., Charles Town Racing Limited
         Partnership, and PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company
         (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Company's Form 8-K,
         File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)

2.8      Transfer, Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Bill of Sale dated
         January 15, 1997 among Charles Town Races, Inc., Charles Town Racing
         Limited Partnership, and PNGI Charles Town Limited Liability Company
         (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the Company's Form 8-K,
         File #0-24206, dated January 30, 1997.)

2.9      Second Amended and Restated Operating Agreement dated as of October 17,
         1997, among Penn National Gaming of West Virginia, Inc., BDC Group and
         PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company (Incorporated by
         reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated November 14,
         1997.)

2.10     Purchase Agreement dated September 13, 1996 between the Company and the
         Estate of Joseph B. Banks for the purchase of Pocono Downs Race Track
         and two related OTW facilities. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's Form 10-Q file #0-24206, dated November 13, 1996.)

3.1      Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant, filed
         with the Pennsylvania Department of State on April 12, 1994.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
         Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

3.2      By-laws of Registrant (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
         1994.)

4.1      Indenture. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration
         statement on Form S-4, File #333-45337, dated January 30, 1998.)

4.2      Registration Rights Agreement dated as of December 17, 1997 among the
         Company, certain subsidiaries, BT Alex. Brown Incorporated and
         Jefferies & Company, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-4, File #333-45337, dated January 30,
         1998.)




5        Opinion of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius regarding validity of Notes.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
         Form S-4, File #333-45337, dated January 30, 1998.)

9.1      Form of Trust Agreement of Peter D. Carlino, Peter M. Carlino, Richard
         J. Carlino, David E. Carlino, Susan F. Harrington, Anne de Lourdes
         Irwin, Robert M. Carlino, Stephen P. Carlino and Rosina E. Carlino
         Gilbert. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration
         statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.1     1994 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.2     Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between the Registrant and
         Peter M. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.3     Credit Agreement, dated as of November 27, 1996, among Penn National
         Gaming, Inc., various banks, CoreStates Bank, N.A., as Co-Agent and
         Bankers Trust Company, as Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
         10.1 of the Company's registration statement on Form 8-K, File
         #0-24206, dated December 12, 1996.)

10.4     Employment Agreement dated April 12, 1994 between the Registrant and
         Robert S. Ippolito. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.8     Consolidation of PRA Agreement dated May 18, 1992 and PRA Amendment
         dated February 9, 1993 among all members of the Pennsylvania Racing
         Association. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration
         statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.11    Lease dated March 7, 1991 between Shelbourne Associates and PNRC
         Limited Partnership. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26,
         1994.)

10.13    Lease dated June 30, 1993 between John E. Kyner, Jr. and Sandra R.
         Kyner, and PNRC Chambersburg, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May
         26, 1994.)

10.34    Warrant Agreement between the Registrant and Fahnestock & Co. Inc.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's registration statement on
         Form S-1, File #33-77758, dated May 26, 1994.)

10.38    Consulting Agreement dated August 29, 1994, between the Company and
         Peter D. Carlino. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K
         File #0-24206 dated March 23, 1995.)





10.39    Lease dated July 7, 1994, between North Mall Associates and the Company
         for the York OTW. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K
         file #0-24206 dated March 23, 1995.)

10.41    Lease dated March 31, 1995 between Wyomissing Professional Center III,
         LP and the Company for the Wyomissing Corporate Office. (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K file #0-24206 dated March 20,
         1996.)

10.42    Employment agreement dated June 1, 1995 between the Company and William
         J. Bork. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K file
         #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.43    Lease dated July 17, 1995 between E. Lampeter Associates and
         Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. for the Lancaster OTW, as
         amended. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K file
         #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.44    Agreement dated September 1, 1995 between Mountainview Thoroughbred
         Racing Association and Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. And Sports
         Arena Employees' Union Local 137 (non-primary location). (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K file #0-24206 dated March 20,
         1996.)

10.45    Agreement dated December 27, 1995 between Pennsylvania National Turf
         Club, Inc. And Teleview Racing Patrols, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
         to the Company's Form 10-K file #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.47    Agreement dated February 15, 1996 among Mountainview Thoroughbred
         Racing Association, Pennsylvania National Turf Club, Inc. and
         Pennsylvania Division, Horsemen's Benevolent and Protection
         Association, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K
         file #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.50    Formation agreement dated February 26, 1996 between the Company and
         Bryant Development Company. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         Form 10-K file #0-24206 dated March 20, 1996.)

10.51    Assignment of agreement of sale dated March 6, 1996 between the Company
         and Montgomery Realty Growth Fund, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-Q file #0-24206, dated May 14, 1996.)

10.56    Amended and restated option agreement dated as of February 17, 1995
         between the PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company (The
         joint venture) and Charles Town Racing Limited Partnership and Charles
         Town Races, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q
         file #0-24206, dated November 13, 1996.)

10.57    General Contractor Agreement dated December 23, 1996, between PNGI
         Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and Warfel Construction
         Company. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File
         #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)





10.58    Agreement dated March 19, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming
         Limited Liability Company and The Charles Town HBPA, Inc. (Incorporated
         by reference to the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27,
         1997.)

10.59    Agreement dated March 21, 1997, between PNGI Charles Town Gaming
         Limited Liability Company and The West Virginia Thoroughbred Breeders
         Association. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-K,
         File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.60    Agreement between PNGI Charles Town Gaming Limited Liability Company
         and The West Virginia Union of Mutuels Clerks, Local 533, Service
         Employees International Union, AFL-CIO. (Incorporated by reference to
         the Company's Form 10-K, File #0-24206, dated March 27, 1997.)

10.61    General Contractor Agreement dated March 26, 1997, between PNGI Charles
         Town Gaming Limited Liability Company and Myers Building Systems, Inc.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206,
         dated May 15, 1997.)

10.62    Agreement dated June 25, 1997, between the PNGI Charles Town Gaming
         Limited Liability Company and GTECH Corporation. (Incorporated by
         reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File #0-24206, dated August 12,
         1997.)

10.63    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997, between the Company and Roosevelt
         Boyland Devisees. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form
         10-Q, File #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.64    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997, between the Company and Joyce M.
         Peck. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File
         #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.65    Purchase Option dated June 20, 1997, between the Company and Alan J.
         Aste. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File
         #0-24206, dated August 12, 1997.)

10.66    Fourth amendment waiver and consent dated as of October 20, 1997, among
         the Company, Bankers Trust as agent, CoreStates, N.A. as co-agent and
         certain banks party to the credit agreement dated as of November 17,
         1996. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 10-Q, File
         #0-24206, dated November 14, 1997.)

10.67    Agreement dated October 2, 1996 between Pennsylvania National Turf 
         Club, Inc., Mountainview Racing Association and Sports Arena Employees'
         Union Local No. 137 (Primary Location.)

10.68    Lease dated July 1, 1997 between Laurel Mall Associates and the Downs 
         Off-Track Wagering, Inc.

10.69    General Contractor Agreement dated August 15, 1997, between Pocono 
         Downs, Inc. and S.G. Mastriani Construction Management.






10.70    General Contractor Agreement dated October 15, 1997, between Pocono 
         Downs, Inc. and S.G.Mastriani Construction Management.

10.71    General Contractor Agreement dated November 12, 1997, between Pocono 
         Downs, Inc. and Warfel Construction Company.

10.72    Totalisator Agreement dated November 19, 1997, between Penn National 
         Gaming, Inc. and AutoTote Systems,Inc.

10.73    Amended and Restated Credit Facility dated as of December 17, 1997,
         among the Company, certain lenders, Bankers Trust Company, as agent,
         and CoreStates Bank, N.A., as Co-agent.

10.74    Waiver dated March 25, 1998, between the Company, certain lenders,
         Bankers Trust Company as Agent, and CoreStates Bank, N.A., as Co-Agent.

21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1     Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated
         February 11, 1997.)

23.2     Consent of Robert Rossi & Co. (Incorporated by reference to the
         Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated
         February 11, 1997.)

23.3     Consent of Leonard J. Miller & Associates, Chartered. (Incorporated by
         reference to the Company's registration statement on Form S-3, File
         #333-18861, dated February 11, 1997.)

23.4     Consent of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP (included in its opinion filed
         as Exhibit 5.1 hereto). (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated February 11,
         1997.)

23.6     Consent of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius (included in Exhibit 5) 
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form S-4, File #333-45337,
         date January 30, 1997.)

24.1     Powers of Attorney. (Incorporated by reference to the Company's
         registration statement on Form S-3, File #333-18861, dated February 11,
         1997.)

27.1     Financial Data Schedule. 

27.2     Financial Data Schedule Restated for the year 1996.

27.3     Financial Data Schedule Restated for the first three quarters 1997.

27.4     Financial Data Schedule Restated for the year 1995.

99       Press release of Penn National Gaming Inc., issued January 20, 1995.
         (Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K, File #0-24206,
         dated January 21, 1997.)

         (B)  Reports on Form 8-K

              None






                                   SIGNATURES


    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                      PENN NATIONAL GAMING, INC.


                                      By \s\ Peter M. Carlino
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Peter M. Carlino, Chairman of the Board

Dated: March 27, 1998

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                                  EXHIBIT INDEX






