
10-K
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995     Commission file number
                                                     0-4604


                     CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION           
                     --------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                 Ohio                                31-0746871    
    ------------------------------               ----------------
    (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

  6200 S. Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio              45014-5141  
 ----------------------------------------           -----------
 (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (513)870-2000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                                      Exchange on Which
          Title of Each Class                             Registered    
          -------------------                         ------------------
              $2.00 Par, Common                        Over The Counter
5-1/2% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2002          Over The Counter

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X     No 
                                              -------     -------

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
Cincinnati Financial Corporation was $2,919,384,518 as of March 1, 1996. 

     As of March 1, 1996, there were 53,090,056 shares of common stock
outstanding.


                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
                      -----------------------------------
     Annual Report to Shareholders for year ended December 31, 1995 (in part)
into Parts I, II and IV and Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 2, 1996
into Parts I, III and IV.


                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
         --------
        Cincinnati Financial Corporation ("CFC") was incorporated on September
20, 1968 under the laws of the State of Delaware.  On April 4, 1992, the
shareholders voted to adopt an Agreement of Merger by means of which the
reincorporation of the Corporation from the State of Delaware to the State of
Ohio was accomplished.  CFC owns 100% of The Cincinnati Insurance Company
("CIC") and 100% of CFC Investment Company ("CFC-I").  The principal purpose of
CFC is to be a holding company for CIC and CFC-I and in addition for the
purpose of acquiring other companies.

        CIC, incorporated in August, 1950, is an insurance carrier        
presently licensed to conduct multiple line underwriting in accordance with
Section 3941.02 of the Revised Code of Ohio.  This includes the  sale of fire,
automobile, casualty, bonds, and all related forms of property and casualty
insurance in 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. CIC is not
authorized to write any other forms of insurance.  CIC is in a highly
competitive industry and competes in varying degrees with a large number of
stock and mutual companies.  CIC also owns 100% of the stock of the following
insurance companies.

1.    The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company ("CLIC") incorporated in 1987
      under the laws of Ohio for the purpose of acquiring the business of
      Inter-Ocean and The Life Insurance Company of Cincinnati.  CLIC
      acquired The Life Insurance Company of Cincinnati and Inter-Ocean
      Insurance Company on February 1, 1988. CLIC is engaged in the sale of
      life insurance and accident and health insurance in 46 states and the
      District of Columbia.
  
2.    The Cincinnati Casualty Company ("CCC") (formerly the Queen City
      Indemnity Company), incorporated in 1972 under the laws of Ohio, is
      engaged in the fire and casualty insurance business on a direct  
      billing basis in 29 states.  The business of CIC and CCC is conducted
      separately, and there are no plans for combining the business of said
      companies.
  
3.    The Cincinnati Indemnity Company ("CID"), incorporated in 1988 under 
      the laws of Ohio, is engaged in the writing of nonpreferred personal
      and casualty lines of insurance in 21 states.  The business of CIC
      and CID is conducted separately, and there are no plans for combining
      the business of said companies.

        CFC-I, organized in 1970, owns certain real estate in the Greater
Cincinnati area and is in the business of leasing of financing various items
principally automobiles, trucks, computer equipment, machine tools,
construction equipment, and office equipment.

        Industry segment information for operating profits and identifiable
assets is included on page 30 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders
and is incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

        As more fully discussed in pages 7, 9, and 11 through 13 in the
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by reference (see
Exhibit 13 to this filing), the Company sells insurance primarily in the
Midwest and Southeast through a network of a limited number (988 in 26






states at December 31, 1995) of selectively appointed independent agents, most
of whom own stock in the Company.  Gross written premiums by property/casualty
lines increased 7% to $1.377 billion in 1995.  The Company's mix of
property/casualty business did not change significantly in 1995.  Life and
accident and health insurance (which constituted only 4% of the Company's
premium income for 1995) is also sold primarily through property/casualty
agencies and did not change significantly in 1995.

        The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") of the Company's
property/casualty ("P/C") insurance subsidiaries.  Property and casualty
insurance is written in 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. 
The liabilities for losses and LAE are determined using case-basis evaluations
and statistical projections and represent estimates of the ultimate net cost of
all unpaid losses and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year.  These
estimates are subject to the effect of trends in future claim severity and
frequency.  These estimates are continually reviewed; and as experience
develops and new information becomes known, the liability is adjusted as
necessary.  Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in current operations.

        The Company does not discount any of its property/casualty liabilities
for unpaid losses and unpaid loss adjustment expenses.

        There are two tables used to present an analysis of losses and LAE. 
The first table, providing a reconciliation of beginning and ending liability
balances for 1995, 1994, and 1993, is on page 27 in the Company's Annual Report
to Shareholders, incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this
filing).  The second table, showing the development of the estimated liability
for the ten years prior to 1995 is presented on the next page.

        The reconciliation referred to in the preceding paragraph shows a 1995
recognition of $126,509,000 redundancy in the December 31, 1994 liability. 
This redundancy is due in part to the effects of settling case reserves
established in prior years for less than expected and also in part to the over
estimation of the severity of IBNR losses.  Average severity continues to
increase primarily because of increases in medical costs related to workers'
compensation and auto liability insurance.  Litigation expenses for recent
court cases on pending liability claims continue to be very costly; and
judgments continue to be high and difficult to estimate.  Reserves for
environmental claims have been reviewed and the Company believes that the
reserves are adequate.  Environmental exposures are minimal as a result of the
types of risks we have insured in the past.  Historically, most commercial
accounts written post-date the coverages which afford clean-up costs and
Superfund responses.

        The anticipated effect of inflation is implicitly considered when
estimating liabilities for losses and LAE.  While anticipated price increases
due to inflation are considered in estimating the ultimate claim costs, the
increase in average severities of claims is caused by a number of factors that
vary with the individual type of policy written. Future average severities are
projected based on historical trends adjusted for anticipated changes in
underwriting standards, policy provisions, and general economic trends.  These
trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified if necessary.






        The limits on risks retained by the Company vary by type of policy, and
risks in excess of the retention limits are reinsured.  Because of the growth in
the Company's capacity to underwrite risks and reinsurance market conditions, in
1987 and 1989, the Company raised its retention limits from $500,000 to $750,000
to $1,000,000, respectively, for casualty and property lines of insurance.  In
1995, the casualty and property lines retention limits were further raised to
$2,000,000.

        There are no differences between the liability reported in the 
accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and that reported in the annual
statements filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory
accounting practices ("SAP").

           ANALYSIS OF LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE DEVELOPMENT
                             (Millions of Dollars)
                                                                      

    The table above presents the development of balance sheet liabilities
          for 1985 through 1995. The top line of the table shows the



estimated liability for unpaid losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet
date for each of the indicated years.  This liability represents the estimated
amount of losses and LAE for claims arising in all prior years that are unpaid
at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not yet
reported to the Company.  The upper portion of the table shows the reestimated
amount of the previously recorded liability based on experience as of the end
of each succeeding year.  The estimate is increased or decreased as more
information becomes known about the frequency and severity of claims for
individual years.

        The "cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years.  For example, the 1987 liability
has developed a $29,000,000 redundancy over eight years and has been reflected
in income over the eight years.  The effects on income of the past three years
of changes in estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE for all accident
years is shown in the reconciliation table.

        The lower section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with
respect to the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding
year.  For example, as of December 31, 1995, the Company had paid $461,000,000
of the currently estimated $505,000,000 of losses and LAE that have been
incurred as of the end of 1987; thus an estimated $44,000,000 of losses
incurred as of the end of 1987 remain unpaid as of the current financial
statement date.

        In evaluating this information, it should be noted that each amount
includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods.  For example,
the amount of deficiency or redundancy related to losses settled in 1992, but
incurred in 1987, will be included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy
amount for 1987 and each subsequent year.  This table does not present accident
or policy year development data which readers may be more accustomed to
analyzing.  Conditions and trends that have affected development of the
liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future.  Accordingly, it
may not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based
on this table.

        The Company limits the maximum net loss that can arise by large risks
or risks concentrated in areas of exposure by reinsuring (ceding) with other
insurers or reinsurers.  Related thereto, the Company's retention levels were
last increased from $1,000,000 to $2,000,000 in 1995.  The Company reinsures
with only financially sound companies.  The composition of its reinsurers has
not changed, and the Company has not experienced any uncollectible reinsurance
amounts or coverage disputes with its reinsurers in more than ten years.

        Information concerning the Company's investment strategy and philosophy
is contained in page 32 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated
herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing). The Company's primary
strategy is to maintain liquidity to meet both its immediate and long-range
insurance obligations through the purchase and maintenance of medium-risk fixed
maturity and equity securities, while earning optimal returns on medium-risk
equity securities which offer growing dividends and capital appreciation.  The
Company usually holds






these securities to maturity unless there is a change in credit risk or the
securities are called by the issuer.  Historically, municipal bonds (with
concentrations in the essential services, i.e. schools, sewer, water, etc.)
have been attractive to the Company due to their tax exempt features.  Because
of Alternative Mininum Tax matters, the Company uses a blend of tax-exempt and
taxable fixed maturity securities.   Investments in common stocks have been
made with an emphasis on securities with an annual dividend yield of at least 2
to 3 percent and annual dividend increases.  The Company's strategy in equity
investments is to identify approximately 10 to 12 companies in which it can
accumulate 10 to 20 percent of their common stock.  As a long-term investor, a
buy and hold strategy has been followed for many years, resulting in an
accumulation of a significant amount of unrealized appreciation on equity
securities.

        As of December 31, 1995, CFC employed 2,289 persons.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
        ----------
        CFC-I owns a fully leased 85,000 square feet office building in
downtown Cincinnati that is currently leased to Procter and Gamble Company, an
unaffiliated company, on a net, net, net lease basis.  This property is carried
in the financial statements at $634,298 as of December 31, 1995.

        CFC-I also owns the Home Office building located on 75 acres of land in
Fairfield, Ohio.  This building contains approximately 380,000 square feet. 
The John J. and Thomas R. Schiff & Company, an affiliated company, occupies 
approximately 5,350 square feet, and the balance of the building is occupied by
CFC and its subsidiaries.  The property is carried in the financial statements
at $12,450,028 as of December 31, 1995.

        CFC-I also owns the Fairfield Executive Center which is located on the
northwest corner of the home office property in Fairfield, Ohio.  This is a
four-story office building containing approximately 124,000 square feet.  CFC
and its subsidiaries occupy approximately 47% of the building, unaffiliated
tenants occupy approximately 34% of the building, and the balance is available
for Company expansion.  The property is carried in the financial statements at
$10,290,635 as of December 31, 1995.

        The CLIC owns a four-story office building in the Tri-County area of
Cincinnati containing approximately 127,000 square feet. At the present time,
100% of the building is currently being leased by an unaffiliated tenant.  This
property is carried in the financial statements at $4,560,999 as of December
31, 1995.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
        -----------------
        The Company is involved in no material litigation other than routine
litigation incident to the nature of the insurance industry.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
        ---------------------------------------------------
        CFC filed with the commission on March 4, 1996, definitive proxy
statements and annual reports pursuant to Regulation 14A. Material filed was
the same as that described in Item 4 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter.






                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        -----------------------------------------------------
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
        -------------------
        This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant to
its shareholders on page 5 for the year ended December 31, 1995 and is
incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
        -----------------------
        This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant to
its shareholders on pages 18 and 19 for the year ended December 31, 1995 and is
incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND
        ---------------------------------------------------------------
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
        ---------------------
        This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant to
its shareholders on pages 30 through 32 for the year ended December 31, 1995
and is incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
        -------------------------------------------
         (a)      Financial Statements 
                  The following consolidated financial statements of the
                  Registrant and its subsidiaries, included in the Annual
                  Report of the Registrant to its shareholders  on pages 19 to
                  30 for the year ended December 31, 1995, are incorporated
                  herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).


                  Independent Auditors' Report
                  Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 31, 1995 and 1994
                  Consolidated Statements of Income--Years ended
                    December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity--Years
                    ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years ended
                    December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993.

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         (b)      Supplementary Data
                  Selected quarterly financial data, included in the Annual
                  Report of the Registrant to its shareholders on Page 1 for
                  the year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated herein
                  by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
        -----------------------------------------------------------
        AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
        ------------------------
        There were no disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure
requirements with accountants within the last 24 months prior to December 31,
1995.






                                   PART III

        CFC filed with the Commission on March 4, 1996 definitive proxy
statements pursuant to regulation 14- A.  Material filed was the same as that
described in Item 10, Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant; Item
11, Executive Compensation; Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management; Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                   PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
         ----------------------------------------------------------------
        (a) Filed Documents.  The following documents are filed as part of this 
            report:
            1.      Financial Statements--incorporated herein by reference (see
                    Exhibit 13 to this filing) as listed in Part II of this
                    Report.

            2.      Financial Statement Schedules and Independent Auditors'
                    Report: 
                    Independent Auditors' Report
                    Schedule   I-- Summary of Investments
                                   Other than Investments in Related Parties
                    Schedule  II-- Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                    Schedule III-- Supplementary Insurance Information
                    Schedule  IV-- Reinsurance
                    Schedule  VI-- Supplemental Information Concerning
                                   Property-Casualty Insurance Operations
                                                  
                    All other schedules are omitted because they are not
                    required, inapplicable or the information is included in
                    the financial statements or notes thereto.


            3.      Exhibits:

                    Exhibit 11--Statement re computation of per share earnings
                         for years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
                    Exhibit 13--Material incorporated by reference from the 
                         annual report of the registrant to its shareholders
                         for the year ended December 31, 1995 
                    Exhibit 21--Subsidiaries of the registrant--information
                         contained in Part I of this report. 
                    Exhibit 22--Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
                         Proxy Statement dated March 4, 1996 filed with
                         Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.,
                    Exhibit 23--Independent Auditors' Consent
                    Exhibit 27--Financial Data Schedule
                    Exhibit 28--Information from reports furnished to state
                                insurance regulatory authorities

        (b) Reports on Form 8-K--NONE






INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To The Shareholders and Board of Directors of Cincinnati Financial Corporation

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cincinnati Financial
Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, and have issued our
report thereon dated February 9, 1996; such consolidated financial statements
and report are included in your 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedules of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and its
subsidiaries, listed in Item 14(a)(2).  These financial statement schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP


/S/ Deloitte & Touche LLP


Cincinnati, Ohio
February 9, 1996







SCHEDULE I
               CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
       SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS--OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
















SCHEDULE II           CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                 (OOO OMITTED)

Condensed Statements of Income (Parent Company Only)







SCHEDULE II           CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                 (OOO OMITTED)

Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Parent Company Only)
                                            






SCHEDULE III       CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION & SUBSIDIARIES
                      SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
               FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                                 (000 omitted)











 SCHEDULE IV
               CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  REINSURANCE
               FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                                 (000 omitted)







 SCHEDULE VI

                CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION & SUBSIDIARIES
   SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY/CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS
               FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                                 (000 omitted)










                               Index of Exhibits


Exhibit 11--   Statement re computation of per share earnings for the
               years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993.

Exhibit 13--   Material incorporated by reference from the annual report
               of the registrant to the shareholders for the year ended December
               31, 1995.

Exhibit 23--   Independent Auditors' Consent

Exhibit 27--   Financial Data Schedule

Exhibit 28--   Information from reports furnished to state insurance
               regulatory authorities.






                              S I G N A T U R E S


        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


                        CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION










