
10-K
CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORP 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934


       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 Commission file number
                                     0-4604


                        CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION           
        -------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                 Ohio                                31-0746871    
   --------------------------------            --------------------
    (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

  6200 S. Gilmore Road, Fairfield, Ohio              45014-5141  
- -----------------------------------------         ---------------
 (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (513)870-2000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                       NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                              Exchange on Which
                Title of Each Class               Registered    
                -------------------           -----------------
                $2.00 Par, Common               Over The Counter
5-1/2% Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2002   Over The Counter


     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X     No
                                               ---       ---
     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
Cincinnati Financial Corporation was $2,189,596,088 as of March 1, 1994.

     As of March 1, 1994, there were 50,328,235 shares of common stock
outstanding.


                      Documents Incorporated by Reference
                      -----------------------------------
     Annual Report to Shareholders for year ended December 31, 1993 (in part)
into Parts I, II and IV and Registrant's Proxy Statement dated February 26,
1994 into Parts I, III and IV.

                                PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
        --------

        Cincinnati Financial Corporation ("CFC") was incorporated on 
September 20, 1968 under the laws of the State of Delaware.  On April 4, 1992,
the shareholders voted to adopt an Agreement of Merger by means of which the
reincorporation of the Corporation from the State of Delaware to the State of
Ohio was accomplished.  CFC owns 100% of The Cincinnati Insurance Company
("CIC") and 100% of CFC Investment Company ("CFC-I").  The principal purpose of
CFC is to be a holding company for CIC and CFC-I and in addition for the
purpose of acquiring other companies.
        
        CIC, incorporated in August, 1950, is an insurance carrier presently
licensed to conduct multiple line underwriting in accordance with Section
3941.02 of the Revised Code of Ohio.  This includes the sale of fire,
automobile, casualty, bonds, and all related forms of property and casualty
insurance in 50 states and the District of Columbia.  CIC is not authorized to
write any other forms of insurance.  CIC is in a highly competitive industry
and competes in varying degrees with a large number of stock and mutual
companies.  CIC also owns 100% of the stock of the following insurance
companies.

1.   The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company ("CLIC") incorporated in 1987 under
     the laws of Ohio for the purpose of acquiring the business of Inter-Ocean
     and The Life Insurance Company of Cincinnati.  CLIC acquired The Life
     Insurance Company of Cincinnati and Inter-Ocean Insurance Company on
     February 1, 1988.  CLIC is engaged in the sale of life insurance and
     accident and health insurance in 45 states and the District of Columbia.

2.   The Cincinnati Casualty Company ("CCC") (formerly the Queen City Indemnity
     Company), incorporated in 1972 under the laws of Ohio, is engaged in the
     fire and casualty insurance business on a direct billing basis in 26
     states. The business of CIC and CCC is conducted separately, and there are
     no plans for combining the business of said companies.

3.   The Cincinnati Indemnity Company ("CID"), incorporated in 1988 under the
     laws of Ohio, is engaged in the writing of nonpreferred personal and
     casualty lines of insurance in 20 states.  The business of CIC and CID is
     conducted separately, and there are no plans for combining the business of
     said companies.

        CFC-I, organized in 1970, owns certain real estate in the Greater
Cincinnati area and is in the business of leasing or financing various items,
principally automobiles, trucks, computer equipment, machine tools,
construction equipment, and office equipment.

        Industry segment information for revenue, operating profits, and
identifiable assets is included on page 30 of the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this
filing).


        As more fully discussed in pages 7 and 9 to 12 in the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to
this filing), the company sells insurance primarily in the Midwest and
Southeast through a network of a limited number (965 in 23 states at December
31, 1993) of selectively appointed independent agents, most of whom own stock
in the Company.  Gross written premiums by property/ casualty lines for 1993
are shown in the table on page 9 of the Annual Report to Shareholders (see
Exhibit 13 to this filing).  As indicated therein, the Company's mix of
property/casualty business did not change significantly in 1993.  Life and
accident and health insurance (which constituted only 4% of the Company's
premium income for 1993) is also sold primarily through property/casualty
agencies and did not change significantly in 1993.

        The consolidated financial statements include the estimated liability 
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") of the Company's
property/casualty ("P/C") insurance subsidiaries.  The subsidiaries write
property and casualty insurance in 50 states and the District of Columbia.  The
liabilities for losses and LAE are determined using case-basis evaluations and
statistical projections and represent estimates of the ultimate net cost of all
unpaid losses and LAE incurred through December 31 of each year.  These
estimates are subject to the effect of trends in future claim severity and
frequency.  These estimates are continually reviewed; and as experience
develops and new information becomes known, the liability is adjusted as
necessary.  Such adjustments, if any, are reflected in current operations.

        The Company does not discount any of its property/casualty liabilities
for unpaid losses and unpaid loss adjustment expenses.

        The accompanying tables present an analysis of losses and LAE.  The
following table provides a reconciliation of beginning and ending liability
balances for 1993, 1992, and 1991.  The next table shows the development of the
estimated liability for the ten years prior to 1993.



     


        The reconciliation shows a 1993 recognition of $39,769,000 redundancy in
the December 31, 1992 liability.  This redundancy is due in part to the effects
of settling case reserves established in prior years for less than expected and
also in part to the over estimation of the severity of IBNR losses.  Average
severity continues to increase primarily because of increases in medical costs
related to workers' compensation and auto liability insurance.  Also, litigation
expenses for recent court cases on pending liability claims continue to be very
costly; and judgments continue to be high and difficult to estimate.

        The anticipated effect of inflation is implicitly considered when
estimating liabilities for losses and LAE.  While anticipated price increases
due to inflation are considered in estimating the ultimate claim costs, the
increase in average severities of claims is caused by a number of factors that
vary with the individual type of policy written.  Future average severities are
projected based on historical trends adjusted for anticipated changes in
underwriting standards, policy provisions, and general economic trends.  These
trends are monitored based on actual development and are modified if necessary.

        The limits on risks retained by the Company vary by type of policy, and
risks in excess of the retention limits are reinsured.  Because of the growth in
the Company's capacity to underwrite risks and 



reinsurance market conditions, in 1987, the Company raised its retention
limits from $500,000 to $750,000 for casualty lines of insurance.  In 1989, the
casualty and property lines retention limits were further raised to $1,000,000.

                There are no differences between the liability reported in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and that reported in the annual
statement filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory
accounting practices ("SAP").



        The table above presents the development of balance sheet liabilities
    for 1983 through 1993.  The top line of the table shows the 




estimated liability for unpaid losses and LAE recorded at the balance sheet
date for each of the indicated years.  This liability represents the estimated
amount of losses and LAE for claims arising in all prior years that are
unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but
not yet reported to the Company.  The upper portion of the table shows the
reestimated amount of the previously recorded liability based on experience as
of the end of each succeeding year.  The estimate is increased or decreased as
more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of claims for
individual years.

        The "cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years.  For example, the 1987 liability
has developed a $26,000,000 redundancy over six years and has been reflected in
income over the six years.  The effects on income of the past three years of
changes in estimates of the liabilities for losses and LAE for all accident
years is shown in the reconciliation table.

        The lower section of the table shows the cumulative amount paid with 
respect to the previously recorded liability as of the end of each succeeding
year.  For example, as of December 31, 1992, the Company had paid $441,000,000
of the currently estimated $508,000,000 of losses and LAE that have been
incurred as of the end of 1987; thus an estimated $67,000,000 of losses
incurred as of the end of 1987 remain unpaid as of the current financial
statement date.

        In evaluating this information, it should be noted that each amount 
includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods.  For example, 
the amount of deficiency or redundancy related to losses settled in 1992, but
incurred in 1987, will be included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy
amount for 1987 and each subsequent year.  This table does not present accident
or policy year development data which readers may be more accustomed to
analyzing.  Conditions and trends that have affected development of the
liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future.  Accordingly, it
may not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based
on this table.

        The Company limits the maximum net loss that can arise by large
risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure by reinsuring (ceding) with
other insurers or reinsurers.  Related thereto, the Company's retention levels
were last increased from $750,000 to $1,000,000 during 1989.  Management does
not presently intend to raise such retention levels in 1994.  The Company
reinsures with only financially sound companies. The composition of its
reinsurers has not changed, and the Company has not experienced any
uncollectible reinsurance amounts or coverage disputes with its reinsurers in
more than ten years.

        Information concerning the Company's investment strategy and philosophy
is contained in page 32 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated
herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing). The Company's primary
strategy is to maintain liquidity to meet both its immediate and long-range
insurance obligations through the purchase and maintenance of medium-risk fixed
maturity and equity securities, while earning optimal returns on medium-risk
equity securities which offer growing dividends and capital appreciation.  The
Company usually holds these securities to maturity unless there is a change in
credit risk or the securities are called by the issuer.  Historically,
municipal bonds (with concentrations in the essential services, i.e. schools,
sewer, 




water, etc.) have been attractive to the Company due to their tax exempt
features.  Because of Alternative Mininum Tax matters, the Company uses a blend
of tax-exempt and taxable fixed maturity securities.   Investments in common
stocks have been made with an emphasis on securities with an annual
dividend yield of at least 4 to 5 percent and annual dividend increases.  The
Company's strategy in equity investments is to identify approximately 10 to 12
companies in which it can accumulate 10 to 20 percent of their common stock. 
As a long-term investor, a buy and hold strategy has been followed for many
years, resulting in an accumulation of a significant amount of unrealized
appreciation on equity securities.

        As of December 31, 1993, CFC employed 1,975 persons.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
        ----------
        
        CFC-I owns a fully leased 85,000 square feet office building in
downtown Cincinnati that is currently leased to Proctor and Gamble Company, a
non-affiliated company, on a net, net, net lease basis.  This property is
carried in the financial statements at $747,782 as of December 31, 1993.


        CFC-I also owns the Home Office building located on 75 acres of land in
Fairfield, Ohio.  This building contains approximately 380,000 square feet. 
The John J. and Thomas R. Schiff & Company occupies approximately 5,300 square
feet, and the balance of the building is occupied by CFC and its subsidiaries. 
The property is carried in the financial statements at $13,024,736 as of
December 31, 1993.

        CFC-I also owns the Fairfield Executive Center which is located on the
northwest corner of the home office property in Fairfield, Ohio.  This is a
four-story office building containing approximately 124,000 square feet.  CFC
and its subsidiaries occupy approximately 9% of the building, unaffiliated
tenants occupy approximately 78% of the building, and the balance is currently
available for lease.  The property is carried in the financial statements at
$10,415,112 as of December 31, 1993.

        The CLIC owns a four-story office building in the Tri-County area of
Cincinnati containing approximately 127,000 square feet. At the present time,
100% of the building is currently being leased.  This property is carried in
the financial statements at $5,650,634 as of December 31, 1993.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
        -----------------
        The Company is involved in no material litigation other than routine
litigation incident to the nature of the insurance industry.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
        ---------------------------------------------------
                                
        CFC filed with the commission on February 25, 1994, definitive proxy
statements and annual reports pursuant to Regulation 14A.  Material filed was
the same as that described in Item 4 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter. 



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
           -----------------------------------------------------------------
           MATTERS
           -------

           This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant
to its shareholders on page 5 for the year ended December 31, 1993 and is
incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
           -----------------------

           This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant
to its shareholders on pages 18 and 19 for the year ended December 31, 1993 and
is incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND
           ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
           ---------------------        

           This information is included in the Annual Report of the Registrant 
to its shareholders on pages 31 and 32 for the year ended December 31, 1993 
and is incorporated herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
           --------- ---------- --- ------------- ----

           (a)     Financial Statements
                   The following consolidated financial statements of the       
                   Registrant and its subsidiaries, included in the Annual      
                   Report of the Registrant to its shareholders on pages 19 to
                   29 for the year ended December 31, 1993, are incorporated
                   herein by reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

                   Independent Auditors' Report 
                   Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 31, 1993 and 1992 
                   Consolidated Statements of Income--Years ended 
                        December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
                   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years ended 
                        December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991. 
                   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity--Years 
                        ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991 
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

        (b)        Supplementary Data
                   Selected quarterly financial data, included in the Annual
                   Report of the Registrant to its shareholders on Page 1 for
                   the year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated herein by
                   reference (see Exhibit 13 to this filing).

                
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING       
         ------------------------------------------------------------
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE                                        
         ------------------------    

         There were no disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure
requirements with accountants within the last 24 months prior to December 31,
1993.



                                    PART III

        CFC filed with the Commission on February 25, 1994 definitive proxy
statements pursuant to regulation 14-A.  Material filed was the same as that
described in Item 10, Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant; Item
11, Executive Compensation; Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management; Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          ----------------------------------------------------------------
         
        (a)     Filed Documents.  The following documents are filed as part of 
                this report: 

                1.      Financial Statements--incorporated herein by reference
                        (see Exhibit 13 to this filing) as listed in Part II 
                        of this Report.

                2.      Financial Statement Schedules and Independent
                        Auditors' Report: 
                        Independent Auditors' Report
                        Schedule  I--Summary of Investments Other than
                            Investments in Related Parties 
                        Schedule V--Supplementary Insurance Information 
                        Schedule VI--Reinsurance
                        Schedule IX--Short-Term Borrowings
                        Schedule  X--Supplemental Information Concerning
                        Property-Casualty Insurance Operations

                        All other schedules are omitted because they are
                        not required, inapplicable or the information is
                        included in the financial statements or notes thereto.


                    
                3.      Exhibits:
                        ---------

                        Exhibit 11--Statement re computation of per share  
                          earnings for years ended December 31, 1993, 1992,
                          and 1991 
                        Exhibit 13--Material incorporated by reference from the 
                          annual report of the registrant to its shareholders   
                          for the year ended December 31, 1993
                        Exhibit 21--Subsidiaries of the registrant--information
                          contained in Part I of this report.  
                        Exhibit 22--Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
                          and Proxy Statement dated February 26, 1994 filed 
                          with Securities and Exchange Commission, 
                          Washington, D.C., 20549 
                        Exhibit 23--Independent Auditors' Consent 
                        Exhibit 28--Information from reports furnished to 
                          state insurance regulatory authorities

        (b)     Reports on Form 8-K--NONE



                                        

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To The Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Cincinnati Financial Corporation

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cincinnati Financial
Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 and for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993, and have issued our
report thereon dated February 14, 1994; such consolidated financial statements
and report are included in your 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedules of Cincinnati Financial Corporation and its
subsidiaries listed in Item 14(a)(2).  These financial statement schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such consolidated
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE


/s/ Deloitte & Touche


Cincinnati, Ohio
February 14, 1994

                                                
                                                        

                                                      


                                                                      









                                                        





                              S I G N A T U R E S


                    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


                        CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORPORATION








                               Index of Exhibits


Exhibit 11--    Statement re computation of per share earnings for
                the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991.

Exhibit 13--    Material incorporated by reference from the annual report of 
                the registrant to the shareholders for the year ended December 
                31, 1993.

                Segment information from page 30 (incorporated into Item 1).

                Text data from pages 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12 (incorporated into 
                Item 1).

                1993 Premium chart from page 9 (incorporated into Item 1).

                "Price range of Common Stock" section from page 5 
                (incorporated into Item 5).

                "Selected Financial Information" from pages 18 and 19 
                (incorporated into Item 6).

                "Management Discussion" from pages 31 and 32 (incorporated 
                into Items 1 and 7).

                Independent Auditors' Report and Financial Statements from 
                pages 19 thru 29 (incorporated into Item 8).

                "Selected Quarterly Financial Data" from page 1 (incorporated 
                into Item 8).

Exhibit 23--    Independent Auditors' Consent

Exhibit 28--    Information from reports furnished to state insurance 
                regulatory authorities.



