
10-K405
a10-k405.txt
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                                   (MARK ONE)



                                       OR



                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-10635

                                   NIKE, INC.

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE ACT:



            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/ No / /

    As of July 24, 2000, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class A
Common Stock held by nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $150,118,697 and the
aggregate market value of the Registrant's Class B Common Stock held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant was $7,638,929,603.

    As of July 24, 2000, the number of shares of the Registrant's Class A Common
Stock outstanding was 99,233,999 and the number of shares of the Registrant's
Class B Common Stock outstanding was 170,523,518.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

    Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 15, 2000 for the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on September 18, 2000 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Report.

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   NIKE, INC.
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                  ON FORM 10-K
                               


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

    NIKE, Inc. was incorporated in 1968 under the laws of the state of Oregon.
As used in this report, the terms "we", "us", "NIKE" and the "Company" refer to
NIKE, Inc. and its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context
indicates otherwise.

    Our principal business activity involves the design, development and
worldwide marketing of high quality footwear, apparel, equipment, and accessory
products. NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel
in the world. We sell our products to approximately 19,000 retail accounts in
the United States and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and
subsidiaries in approximately 140 countries around the world. Virtually all of
our products are manufactured by independent contractors. Most footwear products
are produced outside the United States, while apparel products are produced both
in the United States and abroad.

PRODUCTS

    NIKE's athletic footwear products are designed primarily for specific
athletic use, although a large percentage of the products are worn for casual or
leisure purposes. We place considerable emphasis on high quality construction
and innovative design. Running, basketball, children's, cross-training and
women's shoes are currently our top-selling product categories and we expect
them to continue to lead in product sales in the near future. However, we also
market shoes designed for outdoor activities, tennis, golf, soccer, baseball,
football, bicycling, volleyball, wrestling, cheerleading, aquatic activities,
auto racing, and other athletic and recreational uses.

    We sell active sports apparel covering each of the above categories, as well
as athletic bags and accessory items. NIKE apparel and accessories are designed
to complement our athletic footwear products, feature the same trademarks and
are sold through the same marketing and distribution channels. We often market
footwear, apparel and accessories in "collections" of similar design or for
specific purposes.

    We sell a line of performance equipment under the NIKE brand name, including
sport balls, timepieces, eyewear, skates, bats, and other equipment designed for
sports activities. We also have agreements for licensees to produce and sell
NIKE brand swimwear, women's sports bras, cycling apparel, children's clothing,
posters, school supplies, and electronic media devices.

    We also sell a line of dress and casual footwear and accessories for men,
women and children under the brand name Cole Haan-Registered Trademark- through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cole Haan Holdings Incorporated, headquartered in
Maine. We market apparel with licensed team logos under the NIKE and "SPL 28"
brand names through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE Team Sports, Inc. located
in Foothill Ranch, California. We also sell small amounts of various plastic
products to other manufacturers through our wholly-owned subsidiary, NIKE
IHM, Inc.

    Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Bauer NIKE Hockey Inc., headquartered in
Montreal, manufactures and distributes ice skates, skate blades, in-line roller
skates, protective gear, hockey sticks, and hockey jerseys and accessories under
the Bauer-Registered Trademark- and NIKE-Registered Trademark- brand names.
Bauer also offers a full selection of products for street, roller and field
hockey.


SALES AND MARKETING

    The table below shows certain information regarding NIKE's United States and
international (non-U.S.) revenues for the last three fiscal years.



    Financial information about geographic and segment operations appears in
Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements on page 45.

    We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the
year. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time
as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of
footwear, apparel, and equipment.

    Because NIKE is a consumer products company, the relative popularity of
various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the
demand for our products. We must therefore respond to trends and shifts in
consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings,
developing new products, styles and categories, and influencing sports and
fitness preferences through aggressive marketing. This is a continuing risk.
Failure to timely and adequately respond could have a material adverse affect on
our sales and profitability.

UNITED STATES MARKET

    During fiscal 2000, sales in the United States accounted for approximately
56 percent of total revenues, compared to 57 percent in fiscal 1999 and
57 percent in fiscal 1998. We sell to approximately 19,000 retail accounts in
the United States. The NIKE brand domestic retail account base includes a mix of


department stores, footwear stores, sporting goods stores, skating, tennis and
golf shops, and other retail accounts. During fiscal year 2000, our three
largest customers accounted for approximately 29 percent of NIKE brand sales in
the United States, and 27 percent of total sales in the United States.

    We make substantial use of our "futures" ordering program, which allows
retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the guarantee
that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a
fixed price. In fiscal year 2000, 90 percent of our domestic footwear shipments
(excluding Cole Haan and Bauer) were made under the futures program, compared to
91 percent in fiscal 1999 and 85 percent in fiscal 1998. In fiscal 2000,
82 percent of our domestic apparel shipments were made under the futures
program, compared to 80 percent in fiscal 1999, and 84 percent in 1998.

    We utilize 18 NIKE sales offices to solicit sales in the United States. We
also utilize 40 independent sales representatives to sell specialty products for
golf, cycling, water sports and outdoor activities. In addition, we operate the
following retail outlets in the United States:



    NIKE's domestic distribution centers for footwear are located in Beaverton,
Oregon, Wilsonville, Oregon, Memphis, Tennessee, and Greenland, New Hampshire.
Apparel products are shipped from the Memphis distribution center and from
Greenville, North Carolina. Cole Haan footwear and Bauer NIKE Hockey products
are distributed primarily from Greenland, New Hampshire, and NIKE Team Sports
licensed apparel is shipped from Foothill Ranch, California.

INTERNATIONAL MARKETS

    We currently market our products in approximately 140 countries outside of
the United States through independent distributors, licensees, subsidiaries and
branch offices. We operate 20 distribution centers in Europe, Asia, Canada,
Latin America, and Australia, and also distribute through independent
distributors and licensees. We estimate that our products are sold through more
than 30,000 retail accounts outside the United States. Non-U.S. sales accounted
for 44 percent of total revenues in fiscal 2000, compared to 43 percent in
fiscal 1999 and 43 percent in fiscal 1998. In many countries and regions,
including Japan, Canada, Asia, South America, and Europe, we have a futures
ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures program
described above. We are developing the program in other countries. NIKE's three
largest customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 8 percent of
non-U.S. sales.

    International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia,
India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, The
Netherlands, Norway, Peoples Republic of China, The Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan,
Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam.

    We operate 75 retail outlets outside the United States, which are comprised
of NIKETOWNs, factory stores, employee stores, and Cole Haan stores.


SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS

    Venator Group Inc., which operates a chain of retail stores specializing in
athletic footwear and apparel, accounted for approximately 12 percent of global
net sales of NIKE brand products during fiscal 2000. No other customer accounted
for 10 percent or more of our net sales during fiscal 2000.

ORDERS

    As of May 31, 2000, our worldwide futures orders for NIKE brand athletic
footwear and apparel totaled $4.3 billion, compared to $4.2 billion as of
May 31, 1999. These orders are scheduled for delivery from June through November
of 2000. Based upon historical data, we expect that approximately 95 percent of
these orders will be filled in that time period, although the orders may be
cancelable.

PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    We believe that our research and development efforts are a key factor in our
past and future success. Technical innovation in the design of footwear,
apparel, and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as NIKE strives to
produce products that reduce or eliminate injury, aid athletic performance and
maximize comfort.

    In addition to NIKE's own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics,
exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, we also
utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches,
trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who
consult with us and review designs, materials and concepts for product
improvement. Employee athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design
and development process.

    In fiscal 2000, we spent approximately $96.6 million on product research,
development, evaluation and design, compared to $97.5 million in 1999, and
$106.7 million in 1998, although these amounts include expenditures on design,
which is not traditionally considered part of research and development.

MANUFACTURING

    In fiscal 2000, approximately 45 percent of total NIKE brand apparel
production for sale to the United States market was manufactured in the United
States by independent contract manufacturers, most of which are located in the
southern states. The remainder was manufactured by independent contractors
located in 33 countries. Most of this apparel production occurred in Bangladesh,
China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, The Philippines, Sri Lanka,
Taiwan, and Thailand. Substantially all of our apparel production for sale to
the international market was manufactured outside the U.S.

    Virtually all of our footwear is produced outside of the United States. In
fiscal 2000, contract suppliers in the following countries manufactured the
following percentages of total NIKE brand footwear:



We also have manufacturing agreements with independent factories in Argentina,
Brazil, Mexico and Zimbabwe, to manufacture footwear for sale within those
countries. Our largest single supplier accounted for approximately 6 percent of
total fiscal 2000 footwear production.


    The principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and
synthetic rubber, vinyl and plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon,
leather, canvas, and polyurethane films used to make AIR-SOLE cushioning
components. The principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and
synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized
performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently
transport body moisture. NIKE and its contractors and suppliers buy raw
materials in bulk. Most raw materials are available in the countries where
manufacturing takes place. We have thus far experienced little difficulty in
satisfying our raw material requirements. NIKE IHM, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of NIKE, is our sole supplier of the AIR-SOLE cushioning components
used in footwear.

    Our international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing
business abroad, such as possible revaluation of currencies, export duties,
quotas, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the
world, political instability. See "Trade Legislation" below. We have not, to
date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the
likelihood of such developments occurring. We believe that we have the ability
to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for
the products obtained from its present suppliers outside of the United States.
If events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a
particular country, our footwear operations could be temporarily disrupted and
we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe that we
could eliminate any such disruption within a period of no more than 12 months,
and that any adverse impact would, therefore, be of a short-term nature. We
believe that our principal competitors are subject to similar risks.

    All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United
States and other countries are subject to duties collected by customs
authorities. Customs information submitted by us is routinely subject to review
by customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether additional customs
duties, quotas or other restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our
products in the future. The enactment of any such duties, quotas or restrictions
could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and might
adversely affect the sales or profitability of NIKE and the imported footwear
and apparel industry as a whole.

    Since 1972, Nissho Iwai American Corporation ("NIAC"), a subsidiary of
Nissho Iwai Corporation, a large Japanese trading company, has performed
significant import-export financing services for us. Currently, NIAC provides
such financing services with respect to more than 80 percent of the NIKE
products sold outside of the United States, Europe and Japan. Any failure of
NIAC to provide these services could disrupt our ability to acquire products
from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the
Unites States, Europe and Japan. If prolonged, such a disruption could result in
cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. We believe
that any such disruption would be short term in duration due to the ready
availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our
current agreements with NIAC expire on May 31, 2001.

TRADE LEGISLATION

    Our non-U.S. operations are subject to the usual risks of doing business
abroad, such as the imposition of import quotas or anti-dumping duties. In 1994,
the European Commission imposed quotas on certain types of footwear manufactured
in China. These quotas replaced national quotas that had previously been in
effect in several Member States. Footwear designed for use in sporting
activities, meeting certain technical criteria and having a CIF price above 9
euros ("Special Technology Athletic Footwear" or "STAF"), is excluded from the
quotas. As a result of the STAF exclusion, and the amount of quota made
available to us, the quotas have not, to date, had a material effect on our
business.

    In 1995, the EU Commission, at the request of European footwear
manufacturers, initiated two anti-dumping investigations covering footwear
imported from the People's Republic of China, Indonesia and Thailand. As a
result, in October 1997 the Commission imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on


certain textile upper footwear imported from China and Indonesia. In
February 1998, the Commission imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on certain
synthetic and leather upper footwear originating in China, Indonesia and
Thailand. In the case of textile upper footwear, the anti-dumping duties do not
cover sports footwear. In the case of synthetic and leather upper footwear, the
anti-dumping duties do not cover footwear meeting the STAF technical criteria
and with a CIF price above 5.7 euros. As a result, the anti-dumping duties for
synthetic and leather upper footwear apply only to low cost footwear. In our
case, these duties primarily impact children's shoes and low cost sandals. While
the exclusions are subject to some interpretation by customs authorities, we
believe that most of our footwear sourced in the target countries for sale in
the EU fits within the exclusions. Accordingly, our business has not been
materially affected by the anti-dumping duties.

    While we have no reason to believe that the sports footwear exclusions from
the quotas and anti-dumping duties will be eliminated, the European Commission
in June 2000 issued an amendment to the explanatory notes to the EU's customs
nomenclature ("CN"). The amendment, which is not legally binding, interprets
some of the technical criteria for the STAF exclusion and the footwear types
that can be classified as for use in sporting activity. The amendment could
restrict the scope of the STAF exclusion from the quotas and also the sports
footwear exclusions from the two EU anti-dumping measures. In addition, the
Commission has altered its administration of the quota system in a manner that
would preclude national customs authorities from opting to grant the exclusion
to certain other footwear types, notably sandals.

    We cannot assess the full impact of the amendment to the CN explanatory
notes until the national customs administrations clarify their national
application of its non-binding provisions. In the meantime, we are assessing the
legal issues relating to both the Commission's action in issuing the amendment
and its related administrative action concerning other footwear originating in
China. We will closely monitor further developments and will seek, by individual
action and through relevant trade associations, to prevent interpretations and
administrative measures that would subject a greater portion of our products to
the quotas and anti-dumping duties.

    If the EU trade measures become substantially more restrictive as a result
of the recent Commission measures, we would consider, in addition to possible
legal remedies, shifting the production of such footwear to other countries in
order to maintain competitive pricing. We believe that we are prepared to deal
effectively with any such change of circumstances and that any adverse impact
would be of a temporary nature. We continue to closely monitor international
restrictions and maintain our multi-country sourcing strategy and contingency
plans. We believe that our major competitors stand in much the same position
regarding these trade measures.

    The People's Republic of China ("China") is a material source of footwear
production for NIKE. As part of the China's bid to join the World Trade
Organization ("WTO"), and after the United States and China reached a
comprehensive trade agreement, President Clinton submitted legislation to
Congress which would grant permanent non-discriminatory "normal trade relations"
("NTR", formerly "most favored nation") trading status to China. In June 2000,
the U.S. House of Representatives approved the legislation, and the U.S. Senate
is scheduled to consider the legislation in the Fall of 2000. Formerly, NTR
status for China was extended annually each year since 1980. Bringing China into
the WTO and providing permanent NTR to China will eventually reduce barriers to
producing products in, exporting products from, and marketing and selling
products within China.

    We are also currently sourcing footwear and apparel products from factories
in Vietnam. In 1995, President Clinton officially restored diplomatic relations
between the United States and Vietnam. The President's action was a step toward
restoration of full trade relations including the United States granting
non-discriminatory NTR trading status to Vietnam which would result in lower
tariffs between the two countries. In July 2000, the United States and Vietnam
signed a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement, which would, among other
things, provide reciprocal NTR between the two countries. Once the agreement


is signed and approved by the U.S. Congress and the Vietnamese National
Assembly, the United States will grant an annual extension of NTR to Vietnam,
which must be renewed annually by the President. We currently believe that
Congress will consider the trade agreement within fiscal year 2001. If Congress
approves the trade agreement, the granting of NTR trading status for Vietnam
could expand our production and marketing opportunities in Vietnam.

COMPETITION

    The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive
in the United States and on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with
an increasing number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and
leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies
having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel and equipment,
including Reebok, Adidas and others. The intense competition and the rapid
changes in technology and consumer preferences in the athletic and leisure
footwear and apparel and athletic equipment markets constitute significant risk
factors in our operations.

    NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the
world. Performance and reliability of shoes, apparel, and equipment, new product
development, price, product identity through marketing and promotion, and
customer support and service are important aspects of competition in the
athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry. To help market our products,
we contract with prominent and influential athletes, coaches, teams, colleges,
and sports leagues to endorse our brands and use our products, and we actively
sponsor sporting events and clinics. We believe that we are competitive in all
of these areas.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

    We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having
distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in
creating a market for our goods, in identifying the Company, and in
distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our
NIKE-Registered Trademark- and Swoosh Design-Registered Trademark- trademarks to
be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in
over 100 countries. In addition, we own many other trademarks which we utilize
in marketing our products. We continue to vigorously protect our trademarks
against infringement.

    NIKE has an exclusive, worldwide license to make and sell footwear using
patented "Air" technology. The process utilizes pressurized gas encapsulated in
polyurethane. Some of the early NIKE AIR-Registered Trademark- patents have
expired, which may enable competitors to use certain types of like technology.
Subsequent NIKE AIR patents will not expire for several years. We also have a
number of patents covering components and features used in various athletic and
leisure shoes. We believe that our success depends primarily upon skills in
design, research and development, production and marketing rather than upon our
patent position. However, we have followed a policy of filing applications for
United States and foreign patents on inventions, designs and improvements that
we deem valuable.

EMPLOYEES

    We had approximately 21,800 employees at May 31, 2000. Management considers
its relationship with employees to be excellent. With the exception of Bauer
NIKE Hockey Inc., our employees are not represented by a union. Of Bauer NIKE
Hockey's North American employees, approximately 75 percent, or fewer than 700,
are covered by three union collective bargaining agreements with three separate
bargaining units, and of BAUER NIKE Hockey's approximately 170 employees in
Italy, approximately 30 percent, or fewer than 50, are covered by three
collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements expire on
various dates from 2000 through 2003. There has never been a material
interruption of operations due to labor disagreements.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of NIKE as of July 31, 2000 are as follows:

    Philip H. Knight, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and
President--Mr. Knight, 62, a director since 1968, is a co-founder of NIKE and,
except for the period from June 1983 through September 1984, served as its
President from 1968 to 1990, and from June 2000 to present. Prior to 1968,
Mr. Knight was a certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse and
Coopers & Lybrand and was an Assistant Professor of Business Administration at
Portland State University.

    Donald W. Blair, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer--Mr. Blair, 42,
joined NIKE in November 1999. Prior to joining NIKE, he was Vice President,
Finance of Pepsi-Cola Asia, Vice President, Planning of PepsiCo's Pizza Hut
Division, and Senior Vice President, Finance of The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc.
Mr. Blair is a certified public accountant.

    Jeffrey M. Cava, Vice President, Global Human Resources--Mr. Cava, 48, has
been employed by NIKE since 1996, with primary responsibility for NIKE's Global
Human Resources. Previous to NIKE, Mr. Cava held the positions of Vice
President, Human Resources, Walt Disney Consumer Products, and Vice President of
Worldwide Staffing, ITT Sheraton Corporation.

    Thomas E. Clarke, President of New Ventures--Dr. Clarke, 49, a director
since 1994, joined the Company in 1980. He was appointed divisional vice
president in charge of marketing in 1987, elected corporate Vice President in
1989, appointed General Manager in 1990, and served as President and Chief
Operating Officer from 1994 to 1999. Dr. Clarke previoiusly held various
positions with the Company, primarily in research, design, development and
marketing. Dr. Clarke holds a Doctorate degree in biomechanics.

    Charles D. Denson, Vice President and General Manager, NIKE
USA--Mr. Denson, 44, has been employed by NIKE since February 1979. Mr. Denson
held several positions within the Company, including his appointments as
Director of USA Apparel Sales in 1994, divisional Vice President, US Sales in
1994, divisional Vice President European Sales in 1997, divisional Vice
President and General Manager, NIKE Europe in 1998, and Vice President and
General Manager of NIKE USA in June 2000.

    Gary M. DeStefano, Vice President and General Manager of Asia
Pacific--Mr. DeStefano, 43, has been employed by NIKE since 1982, with primary
responsibilities in sales and customer service. Mr. DeStefano was appointed
Director of Domestic Sales in 1990, divisional Vice President in charge of
domestic sales in 1992, Vice President of Global Sales in 1996, and Vice
President and General Manager of Asia Pacific in March 1997.

    Clare L. Hamill, Vice President of Women's Division--Ms. Hamill, 45, joined
NIKE in 1981. Prior to becoming Vice President of the Women's Division in
August 2000, Ms. Hamill held several positions within the Company, including her
appointments as Director, Product Marketing, NIKE Europe in 1989, Director,
Men's Apparel Merchandising in 1992, Vice President and General Manager, Global
Footwear in 1993, and Vice President of Equipment in 1998.

    Mark G. Parker, Vice President of Global Footwear--Mr. Parker, 43, has been
employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research,
design and development. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in
charge of development in 1987, elected Vice President in 1989, appointed General
Manager in 1993, and Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998.

    Lindsay D. Stewart, Vice President Legal and Corporate Affairs and Assistant
Secretary--Mr. Stewart, 53, joined NIKE as Assistant Corporate Counsel in 1981.
Mr. Stewart became Corporate Counsel in 1983. He was appointed Vice President
and General Counsel in 1991. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Stewart was in private
practice and an attorney for Georgia-Pacific Corporation.


    Ian T. Todd, Vice President, Global Sports Marketing--Mr. Todd, 53, joined
NIKE in June 1998 as Vice President, Global Sports Marketing. He was formerly
employed by International Management Group from 1971 to 1998, most recently in
the position of Senior Vice President and Managing Director of IMG Europe,
Africa and the Middle East.

    Frits D. vanPaasschen, Vice President and General Manager, NIKE
Europe--Mr. van Paasschen, 39, has been employed by NIKE since 1997. He served
as Vice President, Strategic Planning, and was appointed Vice President and
General Manager, The Americas and Africa in 1998, and Vice President and General
Manager, NIKE Europe in 2000. Mr. van Paasschen was formerly Vice President,
Finance & Planning, Disney Consumer Products, The Walt Disney Company.

    Kevin G. Wulff, Vice President of New Brands and New Business--Mr. Wulff,
49, has been employed by NIKE since 1993. He has served as General Manager of
NIKE International, General Manager of Canada, and divisional Vice President and
General Manager of The Americas Region. In 1998, he was appointed Vice President
and General Manager of the USA Region, and in 2000 was appointed Vice President
of New Brands. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Wulff was employed as an executive
with Miller Brewing Company and was President and General Manager of Miller
Brands of the East Bay.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    Following is a summary of principal properties owned or leased by NIKE. Our
leases expire at various dates through the year 2017.




ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine
litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any
of our property is the subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the 2000 fiscal year to
a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    NIKE's Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NKE. At July 24, 2000, there
were approximately 20,000 holders of record of our Class B Common Stock and 28
holders of record of our Class A Common Stock. These figures do not include
beneficial owners who hold shares in nominee name. The Class A Common Stock is
not publicly traded but each share is convertible upon request of the holder
into one share of Class B Common Stock.

    We refer to the table entitled "Selected Quarterly Financial Data" in Item
6, which lists, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low closing
sales prices on the New York Stock Exchange, as adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1
stock split that became effective in October of 1990, the 2-for-1 stock split
that became effective in October of 1995 and the 2-for-1 stock split that became
effective in October 1996. That table also describes the amount and frequency of
all cash dividends declared on our common stock for the 2000 and 1999 fiscal
years.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                               FINANCIAL HISTORY
      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA, FINANCIAL RATIOS AND NUMBER OF
                                 SHAREHOLDERS)



    All per common share data has been adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock
splits paid October 23, 1996, October 30, 1995 and October 5, 1990. The
Company's Class B Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Exchanges
and trades under the symbol NKE. At May 31, 2000, there were approximately
153,000 shareholders of Class A and Class B common stock.

                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
           (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND FINANCIAL RATIOS)



                 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
           (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND FINANCIAL RATIOS)



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

HIGHLIGHTS

    - Net income increased in fiscal year 2000 to $579.1 million from
      $451.4 million in the prior year.


    - Fiscal year 2000 diluted earnings per share increased by 32%, from $1.57
      to $2.07.

    - Fiscal year 2000 revenues increased 2.5% to $9.0 billion, compared to
      $8.8 billion in fiscal year 1999.

    - Gross margins improved as percentage of revenues to 39.9% from 37.4% in
      fiscal year 1999.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FISCAL 2000 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1999

    Net income increased by $127.7 million, or 28.3% over the prior year.
Excluding the impact of a restructuring charge in fiscal 1999, net income
advanced $100.4 million, or 21.0%. The increase was primarily due to an improved
gross margin and lower effective tax rate. The increase in net income was
partially offset by higher selling and administrative expenses, which in large
part reflected significant investments in new supply chain systems, internet
initiatives and new retail stores, discussed further below. Diluted earnings per
share increased 31.8%, more rapidly than net income, as a result of share
repurchases during the year. Excluding the impact of the fiscal 1999
restructuring charge, diluted earnings per share increased 24.7%.

    Total NIKE revenues increased by 2.5% in fiscal 2000. Revenues in the United
States region were flat as compared to last year while revenues in our
international regions increased 6.9%. Had the U.S. dollar remained constant with
the prior year, these international revenues would have increased 11.9%, and
consolidated revenues would have advanced 4.5%. Revenue growth in the United
States was slowed by a contraction of athletic sportswear retail space, which we
expect to continue to affect our revenue growth during the first part of fiscal
2001. U.S. footwear revenues rose 3.3%, reflecting slightly higher volumes on
average prices that were relatively equal to last year. Apparel revenues,
however, decreased by 10.7% as demand for in-line products fell, and cleaner
inventories in fiscal 2000 resulted in fewer closeout sales than in fiscal 1999,
as discussed further below.

    In fiscal 2000, revenues from our international regions represented 42.9% of
total company revenues and grew significantly during the year. For the sixth
straight year, revenues in our European region increased. Fiscal 2000 revenues
in Europe increased over fiscal 1999 by 4.2% to $2,350.9 million, a 14.9%
increase in constant dollars. Fiscal 2001 European revenues may be negatively
affected by a weaker euro currency compared to the U.S. dollar. In our Asia
Pacific region, revenues grew 13.1%, a 4.7% increase in constant dollars. The
Americas region, which includes Canada, Central and South America, and Africa,
grew revenues 8.5%, 10.6% in constant dollars.


    The breakdown of revenues follows:



    Worldwide futures and advance orders for NIKE brand athletic footwear and
apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2000 were 3% higher
than such orders booked in the comparable period of fiscal 1999. The percentage
growth in these orders is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of
revenue growth in subsequent periods. This is because the mix of orders can
shift between advance/ futures and at-once orders. In addition, exchange rate
fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations can cause
differences in the comparisons between future orders and actual revenues.

    In fiscal 2000, our gross margin percentage improved 250 basis points, from
37.4% to 39.9%. The key factors in the improvement of margins were as follows:

    1)  Increased margins on in-line products, particularly in apparel and
       equipment.

    2)  Reduced levels of lower margin closeout sales, reflecting lower
       inventories of closeout, out-of-season product.

    3)  Higher margins on closeout sales, driven by the expansion of our network
       of outlet stores.

    We will continue to focus on managing the level of closeout inventories and
decreasing product and distribution costs through sourcing and supply chain
efficiencies in an effort to sustain the improvement in our gross margin
percentage. However, since our products sold in the European region are
purchased primarily with U.S. dollars, we expect that our fiscal 2001 gross
margin percentage may be negatively affected by the weakening of the euro
against the U.S. dollar, relative to fiscal 2000.


    Selling and administrative expenses increased 7.4% in fiscal 2000 to
$2,606.4 million. Investments in initiatives designed to create future revenues
and profits drove much of the increase:

    1)  We opened 27 new retail outlets during fiscal 2000. As previously
       mentioned, these outlets allow us to achieve improved pricing margins on
       closeout sales.

    2)  We invested in developing business-to-consumer and business-to-business
       e-commerce, both in an effort to generate future revenue growth as well
       as to enhance company productivity.

    3)  We continued to invest in operational systems and processes. The most
       significant project in this area is our supply chain initiative, which is
       intended to improve cash flow by reducing inventories, to increase our
       responsiveness to market conditions and to lower closeouts and
       distribution costs. We are also implementing new warehouse management and
       product development systems.

    4)  We converted several markets from independent distributorships to direct
       NIKE ownership. These markets included Brazil, the Philippines, Slovenia,
       Croatia and Hungary.

    Higher bad debt expense as compared to last year, due to the bankruptcy
filing of one of our U.S. customers, also affected selling and administrative
expenses in fiscal 2000.

    Interest expense increased by 2.0% during the year to $45.0 million. This
increase reflected incremental interest costs due to significantly higher
average debt balances than in fiscal 1999. (Much of this increase was offset by
the effect of lower interest rates outside of the U.S. and the effect of our
restructured operating agreement with our trading partner, Nissho Iwai American
Corporation (NIAC), which reduced the interest rate on product purchases
financed by NIAC.) See further discussion of debt balances under Liquidity and
Capital Resources below.

    Other income/expense was a net expense of $23.2 million in fiscal 2000 as
compared to a net expense of $21.5 million in fiscal 1999. In both years, this
amount consisted primarily of interest income, profit sharing expense, goodwill
amortization, foreign exchange conversion gains and losses and asset disposal
gains and losses. Last year, other income/expense also included a $15.0 million
credit related to the change in accounting for substantially all inventories in
the U.S. from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method. The change was not sufficiently material to require presentation
of the cumulative effect or to restate comparable income statements as dictated
by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20.

    Our full year effective tax rate was 37.0%, significantly lower than the
prior year rate of 39.5%. This decrease was primarily due to reduced state taxes
and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards in certain foreign operations that
have recently turned profitable, where our effective tax rate is lower than in
the United States.

FISCAL 1999 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1998

    Despite an overall revenue decline, net income increased 13% in 1999 over
1998. An improved gross margin percentage (due to a lower level of closeout
sales) and reduced selling and administrative expenses (due to operating cost
reduction initiatives), along with a lower net restructuring charge in fiscal
1999 compared to the prior year, primarily drove this increase. Excluding both
the 1999 and 1998 restructuring charges, our net income was relatively flat year
on year.

    Total NIKE brand revenues decreased 8% compared to fiscal 1998. This
decrease was the first annual decrease in five years. Had this decrease been
measured in dollars constant with that of the prior year, the net decrease would
not have been materially different. The U.S., which represents our largest
market segment, experienced the largest dollar reduction, decreasing
$422.4 million, or 8%. Non-U.S. NIKE brand revenues decreased $341.6 million, or
9%, an 8% decrease had the dollar remained constant with that of the prior year.
Revenues in Europe increased 8% (6% in constant dollars), driven by a 26%
increase in Apparel. Apparel sales in Europe surpassed the $1 billion mark for
the first time. Asia Pacific declined


33% in total revenues (29% in constant dollars), due to the continued weak
market conditions in that region. The Americas region, including the start up
operations of the Africa region, decreased 15%, a 10% decline in constant
dollars. The decrease in Other Brands was predominately due to reduced sales of
in-line skating and roller hockey categories at Bauer NIKE Hockey.

    Gross margins increased to 37.4% of revenues in fiscal 1999, up 90 basis
points from the previous year. The increase over the prior year can be
attributed to reduced levels of closeout product sales, which reflects our 1999
initiative to reduce the level of closeout inventories on hand. While sales of
in-line product decreased 7%, our closeout sales decreased by 14%. As a result,
despite the decline in our in-line business in fiscal 1999, in-line sales
increased to 92.2% of our overall business, an increase of 60 basis points over
the prior year. In addition, we sold a much greater percentage of our closeout
product through our own factory outlets, which resulted in improved gross
margins on close-out sales and lower reserves against our overall inventory.
Aggressive selling of U.S. apparel closeout inventories, and the effects of the
foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. sales, predominately in Europe, negatively
affected gross margins.

    Selling and administrative expenses decreased nearly $200 million compared
to fiscal year 1998, and totaled 27.6% of revenues, up slightly from 27.5% in
the prior year. Key drivers of this reduction were the actions taken in fiscal
year 1998 to reduce our overall cost structure, which resulted in a
restructuring charge in quarter four of fiscal year 1998. Although total NIKE
brand salaries and wages increased 2% over the prior year, wholesale business
salaries and wages decreased 7%, driven by the headcount reductions which
occurred as part of the restructuring activities. Offsetting this were increases
in salaries and wages of retail operations, given the addition of 44 NIKE
factory stores and 5 NIKETOWNs over 1999 and 1998. Other significant reductions
to selling and administrative expenses were advertising costs, which were down
19%, and sports marketing expenses, which were down 4%.

    The reduction in interest expense of $15.9 million (or 26.5%) compared to
1998 was due primarily to lower levels of short term borrowings given decreased
working capital throughout the year.

    Other income/expense was a net expense of $21.5 million in fiscal 1999.
Included in this amount is a credit of $15.0 million related to the change in
accounting for substantially all inventories in the U.S. from the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The change was
effected in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999 and was not sufficiently material
to require presentation of the cumulative effect or to restate comparable income
statements as dictated by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20. Exclusive
of this credit, other income/expense was a net expense of $36.5 million, an
increase over the prior year of $20.9 million. The increase was primarily
attributable to the losses incurred on the disposal of assets of $14.3 million,
most significantly related to production and planning software development costs
that were abandoned. The remainder of other income/expense stayed relatively
consistent with 1998 amounts.

FISCAL 1999 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

    During fiscal 1999, we incurred a $60.1 million restructuring charge as a
result of certain actions taken to better align our cost structure with expected
revenue growth rates. As a result of the plans detailed below, we were able to
remove approximately $36 million from our cost structure.

    The charge (shown below in tabular format) was primarily for costs of
severing employees, including severance packages, lease abandonments and the
write down of assets no longer in use. Two major areas that were affected by the
reduction in force include our information technology functions, primarily in
the U.S., as we shifted to an outsource agreement for certain areas, and
European customer service and accounting, where we are in the process of
consolidating functions from individual countries to our European headquarters.
Outside of these two areas, employees were terminated from various other areas
around the Company, including our Asia Pacific region. The original number of
employees to be terminated was 1,291. As of May 31, 2000, 56 employees have
found positions elsewhere in the Company and 1,143 have left the Company,
leaving 92 still to be terminated.


    The second major component of the 1999 charge was a write-off of certain
equipment, hardware and software development costs at one of our U.S.
distribution centers due to a change in strategy around how we flow product for
a specific type of business.

    Due to the change in the number of employees that will be terminated,
$1.4 million of the reserve has been reversed during the current fiscal year.
The remaining accrual balance will be relieved throughout fiscal 2001 as leases
expire and severance payments are completed.

    Detail of the 1999 restructuring charge is as follows:



FISCAL 1998 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

    During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, we recorded a restructuring charge
of $129.9 million as a result of certain of our actions to better align our
overall cost structure and organization with planned revenue levels. As a result
of the specific plans described below, we were able to remove approximately
$100 million from our cost structure. These savings were predominantly due to
reduced wage-related costs, reduced carrying cost of property, plant and
equipment, reduced rent charges (associated with office and expatriate housing)
and other miscellaneous savings.

    No increases to the 1998 restructuring charge have been made. A total of
$15 million was reversed in fiscal 1999. During fiscal 2000 continuing cash
payments were made against the reserve liability. In addition, $1.1 million of
the reserve was reversed due to changes in outstanding lease commitments. The
remaining accrual will be relieved in early fiscal 2001, as leases expire and
severance payments, some of which are paid on a monthly basis, are completed.

    The restructuring activities (shown below in tabular format) primarily
related to the following:

    THE ELIMINATION OF JOB RESPONSIBILITIES COMPANY-WIDE.  Employees were
terminated from all regions and almost all areas of NIKE, including marketing,
sales and administrative areas. Related charges include severance packages, both
cash payments made directly to terminated employees as well as outplacement
services, lease cancellations and commitments, for both excess office space and
expatriate employee housing, and the write-down of assets no longer in use. Such
assets, which include office equipment and expatriate employee housing and
furniture have been sold or abandoned as of May 31, 2000. A total of 1,039
employees were terminated as part of the plan, of which 1,034 have been paid and
have left NIKE as of May 31, 2000. The remaining five will receive their
severance packages and leave during fiscal 2001.


    DOWNSIZING OF THE ASIA PACIFIC HEADQUARTERS IN HONG KONG.  We made the
decision to reduce the size of the Asia Pacific headquarters' operations and to
relocate the regional headquarter responsibilities to our worldwide headquarters
in the United States. Included in the restructuring charge are costs associated
with the termination of employees, lease cancellations and commitments and the
write-down of assets no longer in use. Such assets have been sold or abandoned
as of May 31, 2000. A total of 118 employees were terminated as part of the
plan. All of them have left and been paid their severance as of May 31, 2000.

    DOWNSIZING OF THE JAPAN DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  We are in the process of
constructing a new distribution center in Japan. Due to the economic downturn in
the Asia Pacific region and the impact on our business in Japan, the forecasted
volume of inventories and product flow decreased significantly from the original
plans. Because of this, we redesigned the distribution center to efficiently
accommodate new forecasted volumes of inventories and product flow. The costs
included in the restructuring charge related to those costs incurred on the
construction of the center that will have no use under the redesigned facility.

    CANCELLATION OF ENDORSEMENT CONTRACTS.  As a result of the downturn in our
business, we have refocused our marketing along core product categories. We went
through a process of reviewing all endorsement contracts in non-core product
categories and the charge included the final settlements for those contracts
where termination agreements with endorsees were reached, releasing the
endorsees from all contractual obligations. The final outstanding payment is
expected to be made in fiscal 2001.

    EXITING CERTAIN MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS AT BAUER NIKE HOCKEY
SUBSIDIARY.  The charge related to the decision to exit certain manufacturing
operations at Bauer NIKE Hockey and consisted of machinery and equipment that
has been sold or abandoned as of May 31, 2000, as well as the disposal of two
operating plants. The two operating plants have been disposed of as of May 31,
2000. As a result of the reduced level of manufacturing operations, 51 employees
were terminated, all of which have left as of May 31, 2000.


    Detail of the 1998 restructuring charge is as follows:



EURO CONVERSION

    On January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the European
Union established permanent, fixed conversion rates between their existing
currencies and the European Union's new common currency, the euro. During the
transition period ending December 31, 2001, public and private parties may pay
for goods and services using either the euro or the participating country's
legacy currency. Beginning January 1, 2002, euro denominated bills and coins
will be issued, with the legacy currencies being completely withdrawn from
circulation on June 30, 2002.


    We have had a dedicated project team working on euro strategy since
January 1998. We are in the process of making modifications to information
technology systems including marketing, order management, purchasing, invoicing,
payroll, and cash management. Many of our systems are already euro compliant.
Our plan is to have most systems converted to euro compliance by the end of
calendar year 2000, well ahead of the end of the transitional period.

    We believe the introduction of the euro may create a move towards a greater
level of wholesale price harmonization, although differing country costs and
value added tax rates will continue to result in price differences at a retail
level. Over the past year, we have been actively working to assess and, where
necessary, adjust our pricing practices to operate effectively in this new
environment. Also, currency exchange and hedging costs will likely be reduced
due to the introduction of the euro.

    The costs of adapting our systems and practices to the implementation of the
euro are generally related to modification of existing systems, and are
estimated to be approximately $8 million. These costs are being expensed as
incurred. NIKE believes that the conversion to the euro will not have a material
impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARD

    In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" (FAS 133). In May 1999, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board delayed the required implementation date by one year, making it
effective for us on June 1, 2001. In June 2000, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities--an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" (FAS 138). FAS 133, as
amended, will require us to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at
fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives will be recorded in current
earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on the intended use of the
derivative and any resulting designation. The ineffective portion of all hedges
will be recognized in current-period earnings. Management is in the process of
determining the impact that the adoption of FAS 133 will have on NIKE's results
of operations and financial position.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Cash provided by operations was $759.9 million in fiscal 2000, a decrease of
$201.1 million from fiscal 1999, despite increased net income of
$127.7 million. The decrease in operating cash flow relative between years was
driven by two main factors:

    1)  The current fiscal year began with lower, cleaner levels of inventories
       than the prior year, as a result of our efforts in fiscal 1999 to reduce
       our level of closeout inventories. This liquidation of closeout
       inventories generated operating cash flow in fiscal 1999 and did not
       recur in fiscal 2000.

    2)  Our level of operating activity has increased during fiscal 2000 as
       revenues grew as compared to last year. In contrast, our business
       experienced a slow-down in fiscal 1999. While last year's slow-down
       created operating cash flow from decreasing working capital, this year's
       acceleration of business has required us to use cash flow in order to
       build working capital to support increased operating activity.

    We restructured our operating arrangement with NIAC in the first quarter of
this year. The restructured agreement enables us, among other things, to take
over financing of inventory purchases previously performed by NIAC. This results
in the recording of U.S. inventory and a corresponding payable on our balance
sheet 15 to 25 days earlier than in the past. Although the net working capital
impact of this new arrangement is minimal, as of May 31, 2000, approximately
$114 million of inventory was in-transit to the U.S. and on our balance sheet,
compared to zero at May 31, 1999. In addition, as a result of the restructuring,
we are now responsible for issuing letters of credit for the purchases of


inventories. At May 31, 2000, letters of credit of $678.2 million were
outstanding for the purchase of inventories.

    Total cash flows used by investing activities during fiscal 2000 were
$440.0 million. The primary driver of this use was the purchase of property,
plant and equipment throughout the year. The largest purchase was our
distribution center in Japan, which we acquired with approximately $100 million
in cash and the assumption of $109 million in long-term bank loans from the
seller, NIAC. Other significant expenditures were related to the continued
expansion of our world headquarters and additions to computer equipment and
software, primarily driven by our supply chain initiative. During fiscal 2001,
we will continue to incur expenditures related to these projects as well as to
the opening and remodeling of retail stores, although we currently expect total
capital expenditures to be less than the total for fiscal 2000.

    Net cash flows used by financing activities in fiscal year 2000 were
$252.1 million, down from $444.1 million in the prior year. The largest uses of
cash were $646.3 million for share repurchases and $133.1 million in dividends
paid to shareholders. These uses were offset by an increase in notes payable of
$505.1 million. The increase in notes payable was incurred primarily to fund
capital expenditures, the financing of inventory purchases previously financed
by NIAC, and share repurchases.

    The share repurchases were part of a $1 billion share repurchase program
approved by our Board of Directors in December 1997. As of May 31, 2000, we had
completed this $1 billion program. Our Board of Directors has approved a second,
four-year, $1 billion share repurchase program beginning in fiscal 2001. We
expect to fund the current program largely from operating cash flow. The timing
and the amount of shares purchased will be dictated by our capital needs and
stock market conditions.

    Long-term debt levels increased during fiscal 2000 due to the assumption of
long-term bank loans related to the purchase of the Japanese distribution
facility discussed above. In fiscal year 1997, we filed a shelf registration
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the sale of up to
$500 million of debt securities. Under this program, we issued $300 million in
notes, $200 million in fiscal 1997, maturing December 1, 2003, and two
$50 million notes in fiscal year 1998, one maturing in three years and the other
maturing in five years. The proceeds were swapped into Dutch guilders to obtain
medium-term fixed rate financing to support the growth of our European
operations. One of the $50 million notes became payable on June 16, 2000 and was
repaid. In February 1999, we filed a shelf registration with the SEC for the
sale of up to $500 million in debt securities, of which $200 million had been
previously registered but not issued under the fiscal year 1997 registration
discussed above. We have not issued any new debt under this registration; thus,
$500 million remains available to be issued. Liquidity is also provided by our
commercial paper program, under which there was $691.9 million and
$179.3 million outstanding at May 31, 2000 and May 31, 1999, respectively. We
also maintain significant short and long-term lines of credit with banks.

    Management currently believes that cash generated by operations, together
with access to external sources of funds, will be sufficient to meet our
operating and capital needs.

    Dividends per share of common stock for fiscal 2000 were $0.48, the same as
in fiscal 1999. We have paid a dividend for every quarter since February 1984.
Consistent with our practice in prior years, we will review our dividend policy
at the meeting of our Board of Directors in November; however, based upon
current projected earnings and cash flow requirements, we anticipate continuing
to pay a quarterly dividend.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    In the normal course of business and consistent with established policies
and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure
to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. It is our
policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance
our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions
for speculative purposes.


    We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our
international sales, production and funding activities. Our foreign currency
risk management objective is to protect cash flows from the adverse impact of
exchange rate movements. We use forward exchange contracts and purchased options
to hedge certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables,
including third party or intercompany transactions, and use purchased currency
options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions.
When we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market
conditions. We expect all firmly committed and anticipated transactions that are
hedged to be recognized within 18 months. In addition, we use cross-currency
swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan
agreements. Hedged transactions are principally denominated in European
currencies, Japanese yen, Australian dollars and Canadian dollars.

    Our financial performance is also exposed to movements in short and
long-term market interest rates. Our objective in managing this interest rate
exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash
flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we
maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, bank
loans and trade financing from NIAC.

MARKET RISK MEASUREMENT

    We monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives
using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity
analysis, and Value-at-Risk (VaR). Our market-sensitive derivative and other
financial instruments, as defined by the SEC, are foreign currency forward
contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swaps, fixed
interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate Japanese yen
denominated debt.

    In fiscal 2000 we changed our VaR modeling technique from a
variance/co-variance technique to the "Monte Carlo" technique. This change
occurred because we consider the Monte Carlo technique to be a more accurate and
comprehensive method of calculating VaR. In fiscal year 2000 we also excluded
the measurement of foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk for our
cross-currency swaps and Japanese yen denominated debt from the VaR calculation.
This change occurred because we consider a tabular presentation to provide the
relevant and meaningful details of the foreign exchange risk and interest rate
risk associated with these instruments. We have provided comparable VaR
information for the preceding fiscal year with regard to both of these changes.

    We use VaR to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency
forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. The VaR
determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign
exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. The VaR model estimates assume
normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. There are various modeling
techniques that can be used in the VaR computation. Our computations are based
on the Monte Carlo simulation technique. This technique values our foreign
currency instruments against a thousand randomly generated market paths and uses
a complex model to simulate financial variables and related option prices in a
manner similar to that used in options pricing theory. We have excluded
anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts
receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the VaR
calculation, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge.

    The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent
actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the
potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. It also does not
represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. Actual future
gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or
differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and
hedge percentages, timing and other factors.

    The estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on NIKE's foreign currency
sensitive financial instruments, derived using the VaR model, was $9.5 million
and $9.3 million at May 31, 2000 and May 31,


1999, respectively. We believe that this amount is immaterial and that such a
hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases
in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged.

    Details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial
instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. These
instruments include our fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt, fixed
interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt and cross-currency swaps. For debt
obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted
average interest rates by expected maturity dates. We have excluded the
cross-currency swaps from the foreign exchange risk category because these
instruments eliminate all foreign currency exposure in the cash flows of a Dutch
guilder denominated inter-company loan. We have included these cross-currency
swaps in the interest rate risk category. For the cross-currency swaps the table
presents both the Dutch guilder swap payable and U.S. dollar swap receivable and
the respective pay and receive interest rates. All information is presented in
U.S. dollar equivalents, in millions, except interest rates.



    The fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and
are accounted for by two of NIKE's Japanese subsidiaries. Accordingly, the
monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange
rates is recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income upon the
consolidation of these subsidiaries.


    There was not a significant change in debt or cross-currency swap market
risks during fiscal 2000 other than the addition of new fixed rate Japanese yen
denominated debt. The weighted average interest rate on this 13,000 million yen
debt is 2.2%. The U.S. dollar fair value of the fixed rate Japanese yen
denominated debt that was outstanding at May 31, 1999 was $84.9 million versus a
carrying value of $84.6 million at that date. The U.S. dollar fair values of the
fixed rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, the Dutch guilder swap payable and the
U.S. dollar swap receivable as of May 31, 1999 were $296.8 million,
$268.3 million and $297.3 million, respectively, versus carrying values of
$299.5 million, $255.7 million and $300 million, respectively, at that date.

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ANALYST REPORTS.

    Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from
time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases,
conferences, or otherwise, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("the Act").
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may
predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or
achievements, and may contain the words "believe," "anticipate," "expect,"
"estimate," "project," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or
words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the
forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time
to time in reports filed by NIKE with the S.E.C., including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and
10-K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and
local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall
athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among
designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel,
and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in
consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products,
and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; the size, timing
and mix of purchases of NIKE's products; fluctuations and difficulty in
forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that
advance "futures" orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the
changing mix of futures and at-once orders; the ability of NIKE to sustain,
manage or forecast its growth and inventories; new product development and
introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other
intellectual property performance and reliability of products; customer service;
adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on
distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and
transportation to meet delivery deadlines; changes in business strategy or
development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the
United States, including, without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and
political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; liability
and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain
qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference
in this report and other reports.

    The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report
may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKE's business and
financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly
changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not
possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the
impact of all such risk factors on NIKE's business or the extent to which any
factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and
uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements as a prediction of actual results.

    Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time,
communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKE's policy to disclose to
them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial
information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with
any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the
statement or report. Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against issuing or
confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by


others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain
any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility
of NIKE.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

    Management of NIKE, Inc. is responsible for the information and
representations contained in this report. The financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles we
considered appropriate in the circumstances and include some amounts based on
our best estimates and judgments. Other financial information in this report is
consistent with these financial statements.

    Our accounting systems include controls designed to reasonably assure that
assets are safeguarded from unauthorized use or disposition and which provide
for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. These systems are supplemented by the selection
and training of qualified financial personnel and an organizational structure
providing for appropriate segregation of duties.

    An Internal Audit department reviews the results of its work with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors, presently consisting of three outside
directors. The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board of
Directors the appointment of the independent accountants and reviews with the
independent accountants, management and the internal audit staff, the scope and
the results of the annual examination, the effectiveness of the accounting
control system and other matters relating to the financial affairs of NIKE as
they deem appropriate. The independent accountants and the internal auditors
have full access to the Committee, with and without the presence of management,
to discuss any appropriate matters.


                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of NIKE, Inc.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 14(A)(1) on page 50 present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of NIKE, Inc. and its subsidiaries at May 31,
2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended May 31, 2000 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, in
our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing
under Item 14(A)(2) on page 50 presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Portland, Oregon
June 29, 2000


                                   NIKE, INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.


                                   NIKE, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.


                                   NIKE, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.


                                   NIKE, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
                               of this statement.


                                   NIKE, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION:

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NIKE, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (the Company). All significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.

RECOGNITION OF REVENUES:

    Revenues recognized include sales and fees earned on sales by licensees.
Revenues are recognized when title passes based on the terms of the sale, which
are generally upon shipment.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION:

    Advertising production costs are expensed the first time the advertisement
is run. Media (TV and print) placement costs are expensed in the month the
advertising appears. Accounting for endorsement contracts, the majority of the
Company's promotional expenses, is based upon specific contract provisions.
Generally, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the term of the
contract after giving recognition to periodic performance compliance provisions
of the contracts. Contracts requiring prepayments are included in prepaid
expenses or other assets depending on the length of the contract. Total
advertising and promotion expenses were $978.2 million, $978.6 million and
$1,129.1 million for the years ended May 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Included in prepaid expenses and other assets was $158.7 million and
$180.9 million at May 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, relating to prepaid
advertising and promotion expenses.

CASH AND EQUIVALENTS:

    Cash and equivalents represent cash and short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

INVENTORY VALUATION:

    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventories are
valued on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. In the fourth quarter of fiscal
year 1999, the Company changed its method of determining cost for substantially
all of its U.S. inventories from last-in, first-out (LIFO) to FIFO. See
Note 11.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION:

    Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation for
financial reporting purposes is determined on a straight-line basis for
buildings and leasehold improvements over 2 to 30 years and principally on a
declining balance basis for machinery and equipment over 2 to 8 years. Computer
software is depreciated on a straight-line basis over 3 to 7 years.

IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL:

    At May 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had patents, trademarks and other
identifiable intangible assets with a value of $215.2 million and
$213.0 million, respectively. The Company's excess of purchase cost over the
fair value of net assets of businesses acquired (goodwill) was $323.5 million
and $324.8 million at May 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    Identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are being amortized over their
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over five to forty years.
Accumulated amortization was $127.8 million and $111.2 million


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: (CONTINUED)
at May 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Amortization expense, which is included
in other income/expense, was $18.5 million, $19.4 million and $19.8 million for
the years ended May 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Intangible assets are
periodically reviewed by the Company for impairments to assess if the fair value
is less than the carrying value.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION:

    Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial
statements into U.S. dollars are included in the currency translation
adjustment, a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity.

DERIVATIVES:

    The Company enters into foreign currency contracts in order to reduce the
impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations. Firmly committed transactions
and the related receivables and payables may be hedged with forward exchange
contracts or purchased options. Anticipated, but not yet firmly committed,
transactions may be hedged through the use of purchased options. Premiums paid
on purchased options and any realized gains are included in prepaid expenses or
accrued liabilities and are recognized in earnings when the transaction being
hedged is recognized. Gains and losses arising from foreign currency forward and
option contracts, and cross-currency swap transactions are recognized in income
or expense as offsets of gains and losses resulting from the underlying hedged
transactions. Hedge effectiveness is determined by evaluating whether gains and
losses on hedges will offset gains and losses on the underlying exposures. This
evaluation is performed at inception of the hedge and periodically over the life
of the hedge. Occasionally, hedges may cease to be effective and are thus
terminated prior to recognition of the underlying transaction. Gains and losses
on these hedges are deferred until the point in time ineffectiveness is
determined and will be included in the basis of the underlying transaction.
Hedges will also be terminated if the underlying transaction is no longer
expected to occur. When this occurs all related deferral gains and losses are
recognized in earnings immediately. Cash flows from risk management activities
are classified in the same category as the cash flows from the related
investment, borrowing or foreign exchange activity. See Note 15 for further
discussion.

INCOME TAXES:

    Income taxes are provided currently on financial statement earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries expected to be repatriated. The Company intends to
determine annually the amount of undistributed non-U.S. earnings to invest
indefinitely in its non-U.S. operations. The Company accounts for income taxes
using the asset and liability method. This approach requires the recognition of
deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of other
assets and liabilities. See Note 6 for further discussion.

EARNINGS PER SHARE:

    Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the
average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings
per common share is calculated by adjusting outstanding shares, assuming
conversion of all potentially dilutive stock options and awards. See Note 9 for
further discussion.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: (CONTINUED)
MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES:

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates, including
estimates relating to assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

RECLASSIFICATIONS:

    Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year
2000 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of
operations or shareholders' equity.

NOTE 2--INVENTORIES:

    Inventories by major classification are as follows:



    As stated in Note 1, the Company changed its inventory valuation method for
substantially all U.S. inventories in fiscal year 1999.

NOTE 3--PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:

    Property, plant and equipment includes the following:



    Capitalized interest expense incurred was $4.8 million, $6.9 million and
$6.5 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 4--SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT LINES:

    Commercial paper outstanding, notes payable to banks and interest bearing
accounts payable to Nissho Iwai American Corporation (NIAC) are summarized
below:



    The Company has outstanding loans at interest rates at various spreads above
the banks' cost of funds for financing non-U.S. operations. Certain of these
loans are secured by accounts receivable and inventory. U.S. operations were
funded principally with commercial paper.

    Ratings for the Company to issue commercial paper, which is required to be
supported by committed and uncommitted lines of credit, are A1 by Standard and
Poor's Corporation and P1 by Moody's Investor Service (unaudited). At May 31,
2000 there was $691.9 million outstanding and at May 31, 1999 there was
$179.3 million outstanding under these arrangements, net of discounting.

    The Company purchases through NIAC certain athletic footwear and apparel it
acquires from non-U.S. suppliers. Accounts payable to NIAC are generally due up
to 60 days after shipment of goods from the foreign port. For NIKE's U.S. and
Europe operations the interest on such accounts payable accrues at the 30 day
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as of the beginning of the month of the
invoice date. For the rest of NIKE's global operations, the interest on such
accounts payable accrues at the 60 day LIBOR as of the beginning of the month of
the invoice date, plus 0.75%.

    At May 31, 2000, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its
$500 million unsecured multiple option facility with 10 banks, which matures on
October 31, 2002, and on May 31, 2000 the Company had no outstanding borrowings
under its $305 million unsecured multiple option facility with eight banks,
which matures on May 17, 2001. These agreements contain optional borrowing
alternatives consisting of a committed revolving loan facility and a competitive
bid facility. The interest rate charged on both the $500 million and the
$305 million agreements is determined by the borrowing option and, under the
committed revolving loan facility, is either the LIBOR rate plus 0.19% or the
higher of the Fed Funds rate plus 0.50% or the Prime Rate. The $500 million and
the $305 million agreements provide for annual fees of 0.07%, and 0.045%
respectively, of the total commitment. Under these agreements, the Company must
maintain, among other things, certain minimum specified financial ratios with
which the Company was in compliance at May 31, 2000.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 5--LONG-TERM DEBT:

    Long-term debt includes the following:



    In December 1996, the Company filed a $500 million shelf registration with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and issued $200 million seven-year
notes, maturing December 1, 2003. In June 1997, the Company issued an additional
$100 million in medium-term notes under this program with maturities of
June 16, 2000 and June 17, 2002. Interest on these notes is paid semi-annually.
The proceeds were subsequently exchanged for Dutch guilders and loaned to a
European subsidiary. The Company entered into swap transactions to hedge the
foreign currency exposure related to the repayment of the intercompany loan. In
February 1999, the Company filed a shelf registration with the SEC for the sale
of up to $500 million in debt securities, of which $200 million had been
previously registered but not issued under the December 1996 registration.

    In June 1996, one of the Company's Japanese subsidiaries borrowed
10,500 million Japanese yen in a private placement with a maturity of June 26,
2011. Interest is paid semi-annually. The agreement provides for early
retirement after year ten.

    In July 1999, another of the Company's Japanese subsidiaries assumed
13,000 million in Japanese yen loans as part of its agreement to purchase a
distribution center in Japan, which serves as collateral for the loans. These
loans have a maturity of November 20, 2020. Interest is paid quarterly.

    The Company's long-term debt ratings are A by Standard and Poor's
Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investor Service (unaudited). Amounts of long-term
maturities in each of the five fiscal years 2001 through 2005 are
$50.1 million, $0.4 million, $50.1 million, $199.7 million and $0.1 million,
respectively.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES:

    Income before income taxes and the provision for income taxes are as
follows:



    A benefit was recognized for foreign loss carryforwards of $234.1 million at
May 31, 2000 of which $18.5 million, $85.1 million, $6.2 million, $25.6 million
and $11.2 million expire in fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007
respectively. Foreign loss carryforwards of $87.5 million do not expire.

    As of May 31, 2000 the Company had utilized all foreign tax credits.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6--INCOME TAXES: (CONTINUED)
    Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following:



    A reconciliation from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate follows:



NOTE 7--REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK:

    NIAC is the sole owner of the Company's authorized Redeemable Preferred
Stock, $1 par value, which is redeemable at the option of NIAC at par value
aggregating $0.3 million. A cumulative dividend of $0.10 per share is payable
annually on May 31 and no dividends may be declared or paid on the common stock
of the Company unless dividends on the Redeemable Preferred Stock have been
declared and paid in full. There have been no changes in the Redeemable
Preferred Stock in the three years ended May 31, 2000. As the holder of the
Redeemable Preferred Stock, NIAC does not have general voting rights but does
have the right to vote as a separate class on the sale of all or substantially
all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, on merger, consolidation,
liquidation or dissolution of the Company or on the sale or assignment of the
NIKE trademark for athletic footwear sold in the United States.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8--COMMON STOCK:

    The authorized number of shares of Class A Common Stock no par value and
Class B Common Stock no par value are 110 million and 350 million, respectively.
Each share of Class A Common Stock is convertible into one share of Class B
Common Stock. Voting rights of Class B Common Stock are limited in certain
circumstances with respect to the election of directors.

    The Company's Employee Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1980 Plan") was
adopted in 1980 and expired on December 31, 1990. The 1980 Plan provided for the
issuance of up to 13.4 million shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock in
connection with the exercise of stock options granted under such plan. No
further grants will be made under the 1980 Plan.

    In 1990, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, the
NIKE, Inc. 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1990 Plan"). The 1990 Plan provides
for the issuance of up to 25 million shares of Class B Common Stock in
connection with stock options and other awards granted under such plan. The 1990
Plan authorizes the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock
options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses and the sale of restricted
stock. The exercise price for incentive stock options may not be less than the
fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The exercise
price for non-statutory stock options, stock appreciation rights and the
purchase price of restricted stock may not be less than 75% of the fair market
value of the underlying shares on the date of grant. No consideration will be
paid for stock bonuses awarded under the 1990 Plan. A committee of the Board of
Directors administers the 1990 Plan. The committee has the authority to
determine the employees to whom awards will be made, the amount of the awards,
and the other terms and conditions of the awards. As of May 31, 2000, the
committee has granted substantially all non-statutory stock options at 100% of
fair market value on the date of grant under the 1990 Plan.

    During fiscal 2000, the Company granted 0.4 million shares of restricted
stock at a market value of $27.69 per share under the 1990 plan. The shares of
stock will remain restricted for three years, subject to partial forfeiture if
employment terminates within that period. The value of the restricted shares was
established by the market price on the date of grant. Unearned compensation was
charged for the market value of the restricted shares. The unearned compensation
is shown as a reduction of shareholders' equity and is being amortized ratably
over the vesting period. $1.0 million was charged to selling and administrative
expense in fiscal 2000 relating to the grant.

    During fiscal 2000, the Company also granted shares of restricted stock
under the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"), adopted by the Board of Directors
and approved by shareholders in September 1997. Under the LTIP, awards are made
to certain executives based on performance targets established over varying time
periods. Once performance targets are achieved, the shares of stock are issued
and remain restricted for an additional three years, subject to forfeiture if
the executive's employment terminates within that period. Plan participants are
entitled to cash dividends and to vote their respective shares. The value of the
restricted shares is established by the market price on the date of grant.
Unearned compensation is charged for the market value of the restricted shares.
The unearned compensation is shown as a reduction of shareholders' equity and is
being amortized ratably over the service and vesting periods. During fiscal
2000, relating to the LTIP, a total of 33,000 restricted shares were issued at
an average market value of $51.06 per share, and $2.0 million was charged to
selling and administrative expense.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    In addition to the plans discussed above, the Company has several agreements
outside of the plans with certain directors, endorsers and employees. As of
May 31, 2000, 8 million options with exercise prices ranging from $0.417 per
share to $53.625 per share had been granted. The aggregate compensation expense
related to these agreements is $21.3 million and is being amortized over vesting
periods from October 1980 through November 2003. The outstanding agreements
expire through December 2009.

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation," (FAS 123) defines a fair value method of accounting
for an employee stock option or similar equity instrument and encourages, but
does not require, all entities to adopt that method of accounting. Entities
electing not to adopt the fair value method of accounting must make pro forma
disclosures of net income and earnings per share, as if the fair value based
method of accounting defined in this statement had been applied.

    The Company has elected not to adopt the fair value method; however, as
required by FAS 123, the Company has computed for pro forma disclosure purposes,
the fair value of options granted during fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998 using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average assumptions used
for stock option grants for 2000, 1999 and 1998 were a dividend yield of 1%,
expected volatility of the market price of the Company's common stock of 37% for
2000, 34% for 1999 and 32% for 1998, a weighted-average expected life of the
options of approximately five years, and interest rates of 5.8%, 6.2% and 6.6%
for fiscal 2000, 5.5% and 4.9% for fiscal 1999 and 4.4% and 4.3% for fiscal
1998. These interest rates are reflective of option grant dates throughout the
year.

    Options were assumed to be exercised over the 5 year expected life for
purposes of this valuation. Adjustments for forfeitures are made as they occur.
For the years ended May 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the total value of the options
granted, for which no previous expense has been recognized, was computed as
approximately $129.8 million, $61.6 million and $31.9 million, respectively,
which would be amortized on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the
options. The weighted average fair value per share of the options granted in
2000, 1999 and 1998 are $15.81, $17.33 and $18.54, respectively.

    If the Company had accounted for these stock options issued to employees in
accordance with FAS 123, the Company's pro forma net income and pro forma net
income per share would have been reported as follows:



    The pro forma effects of applying FAS 123 may not be representative of the
effects on reported net income and earnings per share for future years since
options vest over several years and additional awards are made each year.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    The following summarizes the stock option transactions under plans discussed
above (adjusted for all applicable stock splits):



    The following table sets forth the exercise prices, the number of options
outstanding and exercisable and the remaining contractual lives of the Company's
stock options at May 31, 2000:



NOTE 9--EARNINGS PER SHARE:

    The following represents a reconciliation from basic earnings per share to
diluted earnings per share. Options to purchase 9.7 million and 3.3 million
shares of common stock were outstanding at May 31, 2000 and May 31, 1998,
respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9--EARNINGS PER SHARE: (CONTINUED)
because the options' exercise prices were greater than the average market price
of the common shares and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive. No such
antidilutive options were outstanding at May 31, 1999.



NOTE 10--BENEFIT PLANS:

    The Company has a profit sharing plan available to substantially all
employees. The terms of the plan call for annual contributions by the Company as
determined by the Board of Directors. Contributions of $15.7 million,
$12.8 million and $11.2 million to the plan are included in other expense in the
consolidated financial statements for the years ended May 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively. The Company has a voluntary 401(k) employee savings plan.
The Company matches a portion of employee contributions with common stock,
vesting that portion over 5 years. Company contributions to the savings plan
were $6.7 million, $7.4 million and $8.1 million for the years ended May 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and are included in selling and
administrative expenses.

NOTE 11--OTHER INCOME/EXPENSE, NET:

    Included in other income/expense for the years ended May 31, 2000, 1999, and
1998, was interest income of $13.6 million, $13.0 million and $16.5 million,
respectively. In addition, included in other income/expense in fiscal 1999 was
income of $15.0 million related to the change in accounting for inventories in
the U.S. from the LIFO to the FIFO method. The change was effected in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999 and was not considered significant to show the cumulative
effect or to restate comparable income statements as dictated by Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 20.

NOTE 12--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

    The Company leases space for its offices, warehouses and retail stores under
leases expiring from one to seventeen years after May 31, 2000. Rent expense
aggregated $145.5 million, $129.5 million and $129.6 million for the years ended
May 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Amounts of minimum future annual
rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in each of the five
fiscal years 2001 through 2005 are $121.1 million, $107.3 million,
$89.0 million, $69.9 million, $59.3 million, respectively, and $299.5 million in
later years.

    At May 31, 2000, the Company had letters of credit outstanding totaling
$678.2 million. These letters of credit were issued for the purchase of
inventory.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: (CONTINUED)
    Lawsuits arise during the normal course of business. In the opinion of
management, none of the pending lawsuits will result in a significant impact on
the consolidated results of operations or financial position.

NOTE 13--RESTRUCTURING CHARGES:

    1999 CHARGE:  During fiscal 1999, a $60.1 million charge was taken to better
align the Company's cost structure with expected revenue growth rates. The
charge (shown below in tabular format) was primarily for costs of severing
employees, including severance packages, lease abandonments and the write down
of assets no longer in use. Employees were terminated in Europe, Asia Pacific,
and in the United States, and included employees affected by the Company's shift
to outsourcing certain of its information technology functions. The original
number of employees to be terminated was 1,291. As of May 31, 2000, 56 employees
have found positions elsewhere in the Company and 1,143 have left the Company,
leaving 92 still to be terminated. Due to the change in the number of employees
that will be terminated, $1.4 million of the reserve has been reversed during
the current fiscal year.

    Also included in the charge was a $20.2 million write-off of certain assets
related to the change in strategies around the Company's warehouse distribution
facilities in the United States.

    The remaining accrual balance will be relieved throughout fiscal 2001 as
leases expire and severance payments are completed.

    Detail of the 1999 restructuring charge is as follows:



    1998 CHARGE:  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998 the Company recorded
a restructuring charge of $129.9 million as a result of certain of the Company's
actions to better align its cost structure with expected revenue growth rates.
The restructuring activities (shown below in tabular format) primarily related
to: 1) the elimination of job responsibilities company-wide, resulting in costs
to sever employees and related asset write-downs and lease abandonments related
to the affected employees; 2) the relocation of, and elimination of, certain job
responsibilities of the Asia Pacific headquarters in Hong Kong, resulting in
reduction in workforce, lease abandonments and other costs of downsizing the
Hong Kong headquarters; 3) the downsizing of the Company's Japan distribution
center, resulting in the write-down of assets no longer in use; 4) the
cancellation of certain non-strategic long-term endorsement contracts, resulting
in


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 13--RESTRUCTURING CHARGES: (CONTINUED)
one-time termination fees; and 5) the decision to exit certain manufacturing
operations of the Bauer subsidiary, resulting in the reduction in manufacturing
related jobs, the write-down of assets no longer in use, and the estimated loss
on divestiture of certain manufacturing plants.

    Employees were terminated from almost all areas of the Company, including
marketing, sales and administrative areas. The total number of employees
terminated was 1,208, with 1,203 having left the Company as of May 31, 2000.

    No increases to the 1998 restructuring charge have been made. A total of
$15 million of the restructuring charge was reversed in fiscal year 1999. During
fiscal year 2000 continuing cash payments were made against the reserve
liability. In addition, $1.1 million of the reserve was reversed due to changes
in outstanding lease commitments. The remaining accrual will be relieved in
early fiscal 2001, as leases expire and severance payments, some of which are
paid on a monthly basis, are completed.

    Detail of the restructuring charge is as follows:




                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 14--FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:

   The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheet for cash and
equivalents and notes payable approximate fair value as reported in the balance
sheet due to the short maturities. The fair value of long-term debt is estimated
using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the Company's incremental
borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. The fair value of
the Company's long-term debt, including current portion, is approximately
$509.9 million, compared to a carrying value of $520.4 million at May 31, 2000
and $384.8 million, compared to a carrying value of $387.1 million at May 31,
1999. See Note 15 for fair value of derivatives.

NOTE 15--FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES:

    The purpose of the Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect the Company from the risk that the eventual dollar cash flows resulting
from the sale and purchase of products in foreign currencies will be adversely
affected by changes in exchange rates. In addition, the Company seeks to manage
the impact of foreign currency fluctuations related to the repayment of
intercompany transactions, including intercompany borrowings. The Company does
not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. It is the
Company's policy to utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign
exchange risks where internal netting strategies cannot be effectively employed.
Fluctuations in the value of hedging instruments are offset by fluctuations in
the value of the underlying exposures being hedged.

    The Company uses forward exchange contracts and purchased options to hedge
certain firm purchases and sales commitments and the related receivables and
payables, including other third party or intercompany foreign currency
transactions, and uses purchased currency options to hedge certain anticipated
but not yet firmly committed transactions. All anticipated and firmly committed
foreign exchange exposures are expected to be recognized within one year.
Cross-currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency denominated payments
related to intercompany loan agreements. Hedged transactions are denominated
primarily in European currencies, Japanese yen, Australian dollars and Canadian
dollars. Premiums paid on purchased options and any realized gains are included
in prepaid expenses or accrued liabilities and recognized in earnings when the
underlying transaction is recognized. Deferred option premiums paid, net of
realized gains, were $3.8 million and $4.0 million at May 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Gains and losses related to hedges of firmly committed
transactions and the related receivables and payables are deferred and are
recognized in income or as adjustments of carrying amounts when the offsetting
gains and losses are recognized on the underlying transaction. Net realized and
unrealized gains on forward contracts deferred at May 31, 2000 and 1999 were
$42.8 million and $31.5 million, respectively.

    The estimated fair values of derivatives used to hedge the Company's risks
will fluctuate over time. The fair value of the forward exchange contracts and
cross-currency swaps are estimated by obtaining quoted market prices. The fair
value of option contracts is estimated using option pricing models widely used
in the financial markets. These fair value amounts should not be viewed in
isolation, but rather in relation to the fair values of the underlying hedged
transactions and the overall reduction in the Company's exposure to adverse
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The notional amounts of derivatives
summarized below do not necessarily represent amounts exchanged by the parties
and, therefore, are not a direct measure of the exposure to the Company through
its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged are calculated on the basis of the
notional amounts and the other terms of the derivatives, which relate to
interest rates, exchange rates or other financial indices.


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

    The following table presents the aggregate notional principal amounts,
carrying values and fair values of the Company's derivative financial
instruments outstanding at May 31, 2000 and 1999.



    At May 31, 2000 and May 31, 1999, the Company had no contracts outstanding
with maturities beyond one year except the currency swaps which have maturity
dates consistent with the maturity dates of the related debt. All realized
gains/losses deferred at May 31, 2000 will be recognized within one year.

    The Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of
non-performance by counterparties to hedging instruments. The counterparties to
derivative transactions are major financial institutions with high investment
grade credit ratings and, additionally, counterparties to derivatives three
years or greater are AA+ or better rated. However, this does not eliminate the
Company's exposure to credit risk with these institutions. This credit risk is
generally limited to the unrealized gains in such contracts should any of these
counterparties fail to perform as contracted and is immaterial to any one
institution at May 31, 2000 and 1999. To manage this risk, the Company has
established strict counterparty credit guidelines which are continually
monitored and reported to Senior Management according to prescribed guidelines.
The Company utilizes a portfolio of financial institutions either headquartered
or operating in the same countries the Company conducts its business. As a
result, the Company considers the risk of counterparty default to be minimal.

    In addition to hedging instruments, the Company is subject to concentrations
of credit risk associated with cash and equivalents and accounts receivable. The
Company places cash and equivalents with financial institutions with investment
grade credit ratings and, by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any
one financial institution. The Company considers its concentration risk related
to accounts receivable to be mitigated by the Company's credit policy, the
significance of outstanding balances owed by each individual customer at any
point in time and the geographic dispersion of these customers.

NOTE 16--OPERATING SEGMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION:

    OPERATING SEGMENTS.  For subsidiaries participating in NIKE Brand sales
activity, the Company's major operating segments are defined by geographic
regions. Other Brands as shown below represent activity for non-NIKE brand
subsidiaries (Cole Haan Holdings Inc., Bauer NIKE Hockey Inc., and NIKE
IHM, Inc.) and are considered immaterial for individual disclosure. Previously,
NIKE Team Sports, Inc. (NTS) was included in Other Brands, but is now included
in the USA region. NTS information and certain other prior year segment
information has been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
Where applicable, "Corporate" represents items necessary to reconcile to the
consolidated financial statements; these items generally include corporate
activity and corporate eliminations. The segments are evidence of the structure
of the enterprise's internal organization. Each NIKE Brand geographic segment


                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

operates predominantly in one industry: the design, production, marketing and
selling of sports and fitness footwear, apparel, and equipment.

    Net revenues as shown below represent sales to external customers for each
segment. Intercompany revenues have been eliminated and are immaterial for
separate disclosure. The Company centrally manages interest expense and interest
income. Operating segment interest is primarily the result of intercompany
lending, which is eliminated for consolidated purposes. The Company evaluates
performance of individual operating segments based on Contribution Profit before
Corporate Allocations, Interest Expense and Income Taxes. On a consolidated
basis, this amount represents Income Before Taxes less Interest Expense as shown
in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Other reconciling items for
Contribution Profit represent corporate costs that are not allocated to the
operating segments for management reporting and intercompany eliminations for
specific income statement items.

    Additions to long-lived assets predominantly represent capital expenditures,
which are shown below by operating segment. At the start of fiscal year 1999,
certain corporate costs, assets and liabilities were segregated from the U.S.
region. Therefore, breakout of capital expenditures and depreciation activity
between the United States and Corporate is not available for fiscal year 1998.

    Other additions to long-lived assets represent additions to identifiable
intangibles and goodwill, which are immaterial for disclosure. Amortization of
identifiable intangible assets and goodwill is considered a corporate expense
and is not attributable to any specific operating segment. See Note 1 for
further discussion on identifiable intangible assets and goodwill.

    Accounts receivable, inventory and property, plant and equipment for
operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are therefore
provided below.




                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)




                                   NIKE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



    REVENUES BY MAJOR PRODUCT LINES.  Revenues to external customers for NIKE
brand products are attributable to sales of Footwear, Apparel, and Equipment &
Other NIKE Brand. Revenues to external customers for Other Brands include
external sales by the non-NIKE brand subsidiaries.



    REVENUES AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA.  Geographical area
information is similar to that shown previously under operating segments with
the exception that Other Brand activity is derived predominantly from activity
in the U.S. and Americas. Revenues derived in the U.S. were $5,017.4 million,
$5,042.6 million, and $5,460.0 million during the years ended May 31, 2000,
1999, and 1998, respectively. Long-lived assets, which are comprised of net
property, plant & equipment and net identifiable assets and goodwill,
attributable to operations in the U.S. were $1,222.5 million, $1,112.3 million,
and $1,071.8 million at May 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

    MAJOR CUSTOMERS.  During fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, revenues derived from
one customer represented 12.4%, 10.3% and 10.7% respectively of the Company's
consolidated revenues. Sales to this customer are included in all segments of
the Company.


                                    PART III

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    There has been no change of accountants nor any disagreements with
accountants on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial
statement disclosure required to be reported under this Item.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    We have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission our definitive
Proxy Statement dated August 15, 2000 for the annual meeting of shareholders to
be held on September 18, 2000. The information required by this Item with
respect to our directors is incorporated by reference into this report from
pages 2 through 4, 9 and 10 of that Proxy Statement. Information called for by
this Item with respect to our executive officers is described under "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in Item 1 of this Report.

    The information required by Items 11-13 of Part III is incorporated by
reference into this report from the indicated pages of our definitive Proxy
Statement dated August 15, 2000 for its 2000 annual meeting of shareholders.




                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (A) The following documents are filed as part of this report:



    All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.


3.  EXHIBITS:



- ------------------------

    * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

    Upon written request to Investor Relations, NIKE, Inc., One Bowerman Drive,
Beaverton, Oregon 97005-6453, NIKE will furnish shareholders with a copy of any
Exhibit upon payment of $.10 per page, which represents our reasonable expenses
in furnishing Exhibits.

    (B)  The following reports on Form 8-K were filed by NIKE during the last
quarter of fiscal 2000:

    None.


                                  SCHEDULE II
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-1

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

    We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference, in the documents listed
below, of our report dated June 29, 2000 relating to the financial statements
and financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K:

    1.  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 2-81419) of NIKE, Inc.;

    2.  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-29262) of NIKE, Inc.;

    3.  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-43205) of NIKE, Inc.;

    4.  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-48977) of NIKE, Inc.;

    5.  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-41842) of NIKE, Inc.;

    6.  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-63995) of NIKE, Inc.;

    7.  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-15953) of NIKE, Inc.; and

    8.  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-71975) of NIKE, Inc.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Portland, Oregon
August 29, 2000

                                      F-2

                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



                                      S-1




                                      S-2

