10-K


a35868e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition period from

to

Commission file number 001-5560

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

04-2302115

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(781) 376-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title
of Each Class

Name
of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common
Stock, par value $0.25 per share

NASDAQ Global Select Market

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act.

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or
a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

o

Yes

þ

No

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant’s common stock as reported on the NASDAQ
Global Select Market on the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter (March 30, 2007) was approximately $911,992,883. The number of outstanding shares of
the registrant’s common stock, par value $0.25 per share as of
November 15, 2007 was 161,675,564.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part of Form 10-K

Documents from which portions are incorporated by reference

Part III

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to
the Registrant’s 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
filed on or before January 28, 2008 are incorporated by
reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 28, 2007




CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Words such as “believes”,
“expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “should”, “could”, “seek”, “intends”, “plans”, “potential”,
“continue”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “predicts” and similar expressions or variations or
negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the
exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally,
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:

Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the good faith judgment of our
management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us.
Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual
results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in
or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual
results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge
you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report and in the other
documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commissions (“SEC”) in evaluating our
forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our
forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of
this report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date made.

This Annual Report also contains estimates made by independent parties and by us relating to market
size and growth and other industry data. These estimates involve a number of assumptions and
limitations and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to such estimates. In addition,
projections, assumptions and estimates of our future performance and the future performance of the
industries in which we operate are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due
to a variety of factors, including those described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation”. These and other factors could cause results to
differ materially and adversely from those expressed in the estimates made by the independent
parties and by us.



In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. In addition, the following
industry standards are referenced throughout the document:

Skyworks, Breakthrough Simplicity, the star design logo, DCR, Helios, Intera, iPAC, LIPA, Polar
Loop, Single Package Radio, SPR, System Smart, and Trans-Tech are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other
countries. All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective companies.

PART l

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of high performance analog and mixed signal semiconductors that enable wireless connectivity.
Our power amplifiers (PAs), front-end modules (FEMs) and integrated radio frequency (RF) solutions
can be found in many of the cellular handsets sold by the world’s leading manufacturers. Leveraging
our core analog technologies, we also offer a diverse portfolio of linear integrated circuits (ICs)
that support automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, industrial and medical applications.

We have aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. Our
mobile platform solutions include highly customized PAs, FEMs, and integrated RF transceivers that
are at the heart of many of today’s leading-edge multimedia handsets. Our primary customers for
these products include top-tier handset manufacturers such as Sony Ericsson, Motorola, Samsung, LG
Electronics and Research in Motion. In parallel, we offer over 800 different linear products via a
catalogue to a highly diversified non-handset customer base. Our linear products are precision
analog integrated circuits that target markets in cellular infrastructure,



broadband networking, medical, automotive and industrial applications, among others.
Representative linear products include synthesizers, mixers, switches, diodes and RF receivers. Our
primary customers for linear products include Ericsson, Huawei, Alcatel ·Lucent, ZTE and Broadcom,
as well as leading distributors such as Avnet.

We are a leader in the PA and FEM market for cellular handsets, and plan to build upon our position
by continuing to develop more highly integrated and higher performance products necessary for the
next generation of multimedia handsets. Our competitors in the mobile platforms market include RF
Micro Devices, Anadigics and TriQuint Semiconductor. In the linear products market, we plan to
continue to grow by both expanding distribution of our standard components and by leveraging its
core analog technologies to develop integrated products for specific customer applications. Our
competitors in the linear products market include Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear
Technology and Maxim Integrated Products.

Skyworks, a Delaware corporation, was formed through the merger of the wireless business of
Conexant Systems, Inc. and Alpha Industries, Inc. on June 25, 2002.

Headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts, we are worldwide with engineering, manufacturing, sales and
service facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America. Our Internet address is
www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and
amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit such material
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information contained in our website is
not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

We believe there are two major trends in the wireless industry that are shaping the market
landscape and the way in which original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) engage semiconductor
suppliers. First, there is a market share consolidation underway. By virtually all analyst
estimates, approximately 80 percent of the handset market is now controlled by the five largest
OEMs, who are increasingly leveraging their brand, manufacturing and distribution advantages across
network carriers worldwide.

Second, and perhaps even more dramatic, is the convergence of multimedia-rich mobile platforms and
the increasingly important role of multimode FEMs in the rapidly evolving wireless handset market
— particularly as the industry shifts to 3G technology enabling applications such as cameras, MP3
players, video streaming, gaming, Web browsing and WiFi based 802.11 wireless data. In fact, next
generation EDGE, WEDGE and WCDMA wireless platforms are driving strong market unit growth, and in
2008 are expected to be the majority of the more than one billion cellular phones the industry is
expected to produce. With this accelerating trend, the complexity in the FEM increases as each new
operating frequency band requires additional amplifier, filtering and switching content to support:

•

Backward compatibility to existing networks

•

Simultaneous transmission of voice and data

•

International roaming, and

•

Broadband functionality to accommodate music, video, data, and other multimedia
features



Convergence of Multimedia in Mobile Platforms

Further, given constraints on handset size and power consumption, these complex modules must remain
physically small, energy efficient and cost effective, while also managing an unprecedented level
of potential signal interference within the handset. As a result, addressable semiconductor content
within the transmit and receive chain portion of the cellular handset is expected to more than
double over the next several years, creating an incremental market opportunity measured in billions
of dollars.

Meanwhile, outside of the handset market, wireless technologies are rapidly proliferating as they
are the critical link between the analog and digital worlds. Precision analog technology allows for
the detection, measurement, amplification and conversion of temperature, pressure and audio information into the digital realm.
According to the Semiconductor Industry Association, the total available market for the analog
semiconductor segment is expected to approach $50 billion in 2009. Today, this adjacent analog
semiconductor market, which is characterized by longer product lifecycles and relatively high gross
margins, is fragmented and diversified among various end-markets, customer bases and applications.



Select Analog End Markets

SKYWORKS’ STRATEGY

Skyworks’ vision is to become the leading supplier of high performance analog and mixed signal
semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. Key elements in our strategy include:

Expanding Power Amplifier and Front-End Solutions Market Share

Our products offer customers solutions that significantly speed time-to-market while dramatically
reducing bill of material costs, power consumption and footprints. We plan to increase our current
worldwide market share position through higher levels of integration and continued innovation,
leveraging our leading edge process and packaging technology.

Capturing Increasing Dollar Content in Third and Fourth generation Applications

As the industry migrates to multi-mode EDGE, WEDGE, WCDMA and WiMAX architectures, RF complexity in
the transmit and receive chain substantially increases given simultaneous voice and high speed data
communications requirements, coupled with the need for backward compatibility to existing networks.
As a result, Skyworks believes that the addressable semiconductor market for our solutions more
than doubles.

Gaining Market Share with Helios™ RF Solutions

We continue to expand our radio presence with the Helios™ platform, which bundles our single chip
direct conversion transceiver and front-end module. Skyworks is now supporting multiple tier one
handset OEMs with complete radios and we look forward to even greater traction as we launch our
differentiated WCDMA solutions in the coming year.



Partnering with the World’s Leading Baseband Suppliers

As a result of exiting the baseband business at the end of fiscal 2006, we are now effectively
partnering with, versus competing against, system-level developers. We believe these strategic
relationships will enhance our competitive position as the market migrates to 3G multimode and
system-on-a-chip architectures where best-in-class baseband, radio and front-end solutions are
increasingly required.

Diversifying into Adjacent Linear Markets

By leveraging core analog, mixed signal and RF technology, Skyworks is also able to deliver
solutions to broader and diverse markets that are characterized by longer product lifecycles,
sustained revenue profiles and higher contribution margins than our handset business. While the
addressable market for linear products is highly fragmented, it is significantly larger than the
cellular handset RF industry.

Delivering Operational Excellence

Skyworks’ strategy is to vertically integrate where we can differentiate or otherwise enter
alliances and partnerships for leading-edge capabilities. These partnerships and alliances are
designed to ensure product leadership and competitive advantage in the marketplace. We are focused
on achieving the industry’s shortest cycle times, highest yields and ultimately the lowest product
cost structure.

BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

We have aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products.



PRODUCT OVERVIEW

Mobile Platforms

Linear Products

CDMA Power Amplifiers

Amplifiers

GSM/GPRS/EDGE Power Amplifiers

Attenuators

Helios™ Radio Solutions

Diodes

Intera™ EDGE/WEDGE Front-End Modules

Directional Couplers/Detectors

TD-SCDMA Power Amplifiers

Infrastructure RF Subsystems

WCDMA Power Amplifiers

Mixers/Demodulators

WiMax Solutions

Switches

Receivers

Synthesizers / PLLs

Technical Ceramics

802.11n Front-end Modules

Mobile Platforms:

•

Front-End Modules (FEM)

: power amplifiers that are integrated with switches, diplexers,
filters and other components to create a single package front-end solution

•

Power Amplifiers (PA)

: the module that strengthens the signal so that it has sufficient
energy to reach a base station

•

Helios™ Radio Solutions:

combines the transceiver, the PA and associated controller,
surface acoustic wave (SAW) filters, and a switchplexer into a single, multi chip module
(MCM) package

Linear Products:

We believe we possess a broad technology capability and one of the most complete wireless
communications product portfolios in the industry.



THE SKYWORKS ADVANTAGE

By turning complexity into simplicity, we provide our customers with the following competitive
advantages:

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team is globally
deployed across all major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales effort
with independent manufacturers’ representatives, assuring broader coverage of territories and
customers. We also utilize distribution partners, some of which are franchised globally with others
focused in specific regional markets (e.g., Europe, North America, China and Taiwan).

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for developing sales and
advertising literature, print media, such as product announcements and catalogs, as well as a
variety of Web-based content. Skyworks’ sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a
customer design. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the
inception of a new program. This partnership allows our team to facilitate customer-driven
solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our portfolio while providing high value and
greatly reducing time-to-market.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an
extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we strive to
expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering, manufacturing,
purchasing and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these
partnerships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing
personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.

We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our
continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to
feedback, we are able to mobilize actions to raise the level of customer satisfaction, improve our
ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics.
We are confident that diligence in following this path will position Skyworks to participate in
numerous opportunities for growth in the future.

REVENUES FROM AND DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION

For information regarding customer concentration and revenues from external customers for each of
the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

We own or are licensed under numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications
related to our products, our manufacturing operations and processes and other activities. In
addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and
services. We believe that intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade
secrets and trademarks are of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright,
trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and
confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary
technologies, devices, algorithms and processes. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will
meaningfully protect our intellectual property, and others may independently develop substantially
equivalent proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms or processes. In addition, the laws of
some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be
available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our proprietary technologies and
processes, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to
obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual
property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims
against us. Furthermore, in our linear products business, we generate high gross margin revenue
through the sale and license of non-core intellectual property, and we on occasion purchase
intellectual property to support our core business. Due to rapid technological changes in the
industry, we believe that establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position depends
primarily on our ability to develop new innovative products through the technical competence of our
engineering personnel.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, overall product quality and
performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, and
protection of our intellectual property. Certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than
we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to
devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic
relationships among themselves or with our customers, resellers, suppliers or other third parties.
These relationships may affect our customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible
that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant
market share. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against
current and potential competitors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances. Recognizing the
importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high level of research and development
activities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help
identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. Our design
centers are located around the world to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent
worldwide. We are focusing our development efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing
processes using our core technologies. Our research and development expenditures for fiscal years
ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005 were $126.1 million, $164.1
million, and $152.2 million, respectively.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several
sources. We do not carry significant inventories and it is our policy not to depend on a sole
source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. Consequently, there are
limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or
limited sources. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase
orders. However, we have a limited number of long-term supply contracts with our suppliers.
Certain of our suppliers consign raw materials to us at our manufacturing facilities. We request
these raw materials



and take title to them as they are needed in our manufacturing process. We
believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our
manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world.

BACKLOG

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products, with
such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. Due
to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us
prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date
is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. We also deliver product to certain
external customer “hubs” (consignment) where our significant customers will pull inventory from
their existing consignment inventories when required. These consignment pulls result in the
recognition of revenue and we periodically replenish these inventory levels.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment,
the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will
continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims has been accomplished without
material effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition.

Most of our European customers have mandated that our products comply with local and regional lead
free and other “green” initiatives. We believe that our current expenditures for environmental
capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing
environmental protection, and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will
not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or
financial condition. We cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements.

CYCLICALITY/ SEASONALITY

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by rapid technological change.
Product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving technical standards and shortened product life cycles
may contribute to wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These and other factors, together
with changes in general economic conditions, may cause significant upturns and downturns in the
industry, and in our business. We have experienced periods of industry downturns characterized by
diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion
of average selling prices. These factors may cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and our
operational performance. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the
past and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

Sales of our products are also subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in
end-user consumer applications, such as mobile handsets. This generally occurs in the last calendar
quarter ending in December. Sales of semiconductor products and system solutions used in these
products generally increase just prior to this quarter and continue at a higher level through the
end of the calendar year.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal
years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EMPLOYEES

As of September 28, 2007, we employed approximately 3,300 persons. Approximately 550 employees in
Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our future success will depend
in large part upon our continued ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain highly skilled
and dedicated employees.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, many of which are
beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks, which may affect our future
operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to
consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem
immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in
general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties
actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer.

We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject
to significant downturns.

We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change
and evolving industry standards. From time to time, changes in general economic conditions,
together with other factors, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry. Periods of
industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess
inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. These characteristics, and in
particular their impact on the level of demand for digital cellular handsets, may cause substantial
fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor
industry may be severe and prolonged, and any prolonged delay or failure of the industry or the
wireless communications market to recover from downturns would materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also
periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity and materials constraints, which
may affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We have experienced these cyclical
fluctuations in our business and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience future losses.

In the past, global economic conditions led to a slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the
number of cancellations and reschedulings of backlog, higher overhead costs as a percentage of our
reduced net revenue, and an abrupt decline in demand for many of the end-user products that
incorporate our wireless communications semiconductor products and system solutions. These factors,
contributed to operating losses for our business in the past. Additionally, we have incurred
operating losses in connection with the restructuring of our business; for example, we had
operating losses of $66.3 million during fiscal year 2006 in connection with the exit of our
baseband product area.

While we had positive operating results during fiscal year 2007, we may experience future losses as
a result of downturns in the economy, as a result of corporate restructuring activities or as a
result of market factors beyond our control.

Additionally, the conflict in Iraq, as well as other contemporary international conflicts, natural
disasters, acts of terrorism, and civil and military unrest contributes to the economic
uncertainty. These continuing and potentially escalating conflicts can also be expected to place
continued pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These conditions make
it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan
future business activities. If such uncertainty continues or economic conditions worsen (or both),
our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely
affected.



The wireless semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause
pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete
in particular are very competitive. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor
manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including RF Micro Devices,
Anadigics and TriQuint Semiconductor. As we expand in the linear products market, we will compete
with companies in other industries, including Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear Technology
and Maxim Integrated Products.

We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product
competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result
in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or
increasing market share. Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of
growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign
and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal
competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others:

We might not be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our competitors enjoy the
benefit of:

As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors have established or may in the future establish, financial or
strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These
relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share. Furthermore, some of our customers have divisions that internally develop or manufacture
products similar to ours, and may compete with us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result
in pricing



pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including for causes beyond our
control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process
consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean
environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of
the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in
equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial
percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our
operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at
acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our
business. In addition, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have
been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty claims, replace products, or pay costs
associated with the recall of a customer’s products containing our parts.

Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at
any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may result from
electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or
risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or
upgrades. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could
cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected
facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, we
cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity,
would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly
and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could
result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient
manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external
manufacturing or similar arrangements with others.

Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing
process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts
semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would
not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our
gross margin and profitability.

Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing
yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new
products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume
manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward
product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result,
material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on
our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields
and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be
magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our
manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life
cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while
maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the
longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining
costs.

We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products.

We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based
products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant
risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including:

•

the lack of ensured wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices,



•

limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality
assurance, and

•

the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies.

Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing
capacity, the third-party foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to the production
requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an
extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products
from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver
products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly
since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity
occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore
experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could
impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.

Although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to
package, assemble and test certain of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any of
our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per
order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial
difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other
disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and
testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify
assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are
required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may
encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer
relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to
develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products.
However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the
risks described above.

We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.

Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the
components used in our manufacturing processes. Although we maintain relationships with suppliers
located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the
supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, recent increased demand from
the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components has resulted in tighter supplies.
We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to meet our delivery schedules, that we will
not lose a significant or sole supplier, or that a supplier will be able to meet performance and
quality specifications. If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules, or if we lost a
supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to
satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we review our
relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an
ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship
with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole supplier arrangements to meet certain
of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply
for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source supplier for epitaxial wafers
used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facilities.
If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our
business could result until an alternate source is obtained. To the extent we enter into additional
sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with
our supply arrangements would be exacerbated.

Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations.

Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we
lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly
decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected.
Sales to our three largest OEM customers in fiscal 2007, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communication AB,
Motorola, Inc., and Samsung, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, represented
approximately 50% of our net revenues for fiscal 2007. Although we expect that our



largest OEM customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenues in
fiscal 2008, a large customer of ours recently experienced reduced demand for its products. A
sustained decrease in orders from this customer could materially and adversely affect our results
from operations.

Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into
which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid
technological change, rapid product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short
product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization,
and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating results depend largely on our
ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. The
successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex
and depends on numerous factors, including:

•

the ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and
industry standards,

•

the ability to obtain capacity sufficient to meet customer demand,

•

the ability to define new products that meet customer and market requirements,

•

the ability to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely
basis,

•

the ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors,

•

overall market acceptance of our products, and

•

the ability to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products.

Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other
factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems, or IT
Systems.

We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in
research and development needed to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products in a
timely manner. We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product
development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market
growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless
communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will
satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to anticipate
new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to
respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in
the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products
interface. If we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in
sufficient quantities and that meet our customers requirements, our business and results of
operations would be materially and adversely harmed.

In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. We believe
that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering
existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain
competitive.

The markets into which we sell our products are characterized by rapid technological change. If we
are not able to adapt to changes, our products may become obsolete.

The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate. Our markets
generally exhibit the following characteristics:

•

rapid technological developments and product evolution,



•

rapid changes in customer requirements,

•

frequent new product introductions and enhancements,

•

demand for higher levels of integration, decreased size and decreased power consumption,

•

short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the product, and

•

evolving industry standards.

These changes in our markets may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. Our products could
become obsolete or less competitive sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated
change in one or more of the above-noted factors.

If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design,
development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our
business.

As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a
significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel.
The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry,
and therefore we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management
and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We
may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor
operating performance, given, among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and
our competitors. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to
attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to operate our business.

If OEMs and Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, of communications electronics products do not
design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover,
a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer.

Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other
products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to
select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without
these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs
another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to
achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost,
time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a
customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a
design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to
reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially
successful, or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design
wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and any failure to do so could materially and
adversely affect our operating results.

Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in
significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.

After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six
months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months
or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle
time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which
could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we
may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative
expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never
generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer
cancels or changes its product plans.



Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely
affect our business.

Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we
sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold
products. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our
products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs
indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will
then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change
their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product
orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated
order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in
inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.

In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in
demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for
non-returnable products could be impaired.

Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.

On September 28, 2007, we had total indebtedness of approximately $299.3 million, which represented
approximately 30.3% of our total capitalization. We retired the remaining $49.3 million in aggregate principal
amount of the Junior Notes plus $1.2 million
in accrued and unpaid interest on the due date of November 15, 2007.

We may require additional funding prior to the date that we expect our existing sources of
liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term investments,
to allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures, acquisitions,
debt obligations, purchase obligations, working capital and other cash requirements. If necessary,
among other alternatives, we may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and we
may obtain other long-term debt, lines of credit and other financing.

Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including:

•

increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,

•

limiting our ability to obtain additional financing,

•

requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to
service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes,
including capital expenditures,

•

limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the
industry in which we compete, and

•

placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and
competitors that have better access to capital resources.

Despite our current debt levels, we are able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase
the risks described above.

Proposed Accounting Rule Changes for Certain Convertible Debt Instruments Could Alter Trends
Established in Previous Periods

On August 31, 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued proposed FSP APB 14-a for a 45-day comment period that ended on October 15,
2007 that if adopted, would alter the accounting treatment for convertible debt instruments that allow for either mandatory or
optional cash settlements.



Specifically, it could significantly increase the non-cash interest expense
associated with our existing $200 million 2007 Convertible Notes including interest expense in
prior periods. The exact impact of this proposal to the Company’s financial statements will not be
known until such time that the proposal is finalized.

Average product life cycles in the semiconductor industry tend to be very short. If we are unable
to sell our products at an acceptable price, or at all, our operating results would be harmed.

In the semiconductor industry, product life cycles tend to be short relative to the sales and
development cycles. Therefore, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result
in material revenue, and from time to time we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory.
If we were to incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory that we are not
able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results would
be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in
anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating
results would be harmed.

We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.

To the extent that our existing cash and securities and cash from operations are insufficient to
fund our future activities or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds
through public or private equity or debt financing. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital
markets, if and when we seek additional financing as well as the then current condition of the
Company, will affect our ability to raise capital, as well as the terms of any such financing. We
may not be able to raise enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all.
Failure to obtain capital when required would have a material adverse effect on us.

In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our
business may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required
to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.

Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry
process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.

In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to
increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing
processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some
existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry
process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing
yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties,
delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the
future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to
smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to
effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If
our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently
implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect
to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party
intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of
design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.

A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United
States, primarily countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have
suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test
facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own packaging,
assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations are subject
to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited
to, risks regarding:

•

currency exchange rate fluctuations,



•

local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political
instability,

•

disruptions of capital and trading markets,

•

inability to collect accounts receivable,

•

restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade
protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, import or export controls and
tariffs),

•

changes in legal or regulatory requirements,

•

natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war,

•

limitations on the repatriation of funds,

•

difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,

•

cultural differences in the conduct of business,

•

the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign
investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements,

•

tax laws,

•

the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, and

•

limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property
rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction.

Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide
subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in handset prices that negatively impact
handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact
the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea,
Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.

Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations
and market downturns.

Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues,
earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.

These factors include, among others:

•

changes in end-user demand for the products (principally digital cellular handsets)
manufactured and sold by our customers,

•

the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices
of our products,

•

production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields,

•

availability and cost of products from our suppliers,

•

the gain or loss of significant customers,



•

our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely
basis,

•

new product and technology introductions by competitors,

•

changes in the mix of products produced and sold,

•

market acceptance of our products and our customers, and

•

intellectual property disputes

•

our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling
non-core intellectual property.

The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could
materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results
fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect
the price of our common stock.

Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.

Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and
components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide
integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential
is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with
smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer
gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.
If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify
the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect
the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing
their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies
for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to identify products and markets that require performance
attributes of gallium arsenide solutions.

We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands
that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us
from using our technology.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual
property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert
patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology or refrain from using it.

Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe
intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual
indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and
divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the
merits of any specific claim, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation because of
the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to:



We cannot assure you that our operating results or financial condition will not be materially
adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to do any one or more of the
foregoing items.

In addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found
to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer
could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing
product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from
our customers for our products. If such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it
could have an adverse impact on our operating results.

Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties. If licenses to
such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business
could be adversely affected.

We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes; evolving
industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing
levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain
technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain in a
competitive posture. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable
terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our
customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such
instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop
substitute technology to deliver competitive products.

If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to
compete.

We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well
as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often
incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our
designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party
intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like
activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This
could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our
management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that:

•

the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of
our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third
parties will be successful,

•

any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual
property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or

•

any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.

Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use
our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our
patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology,
it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in
loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be
broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent
protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in
foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection
may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.

There is a growing industry trend to include or adapt “open source” software that is generally made
available to the public by its developers, authors or third parties. Often such software includes
license provisions, requiring public



disclosure of any derivative works containing open source code. There is little legal precedent in the area of open
source software or its effects on copyright law or the protection of proprietary works. We take
steps to avoid the use of open source works in our proprietary software, and are taking steps to
limit our suppliers from doing so. However, in the event a copyright holder were to demonstrate in
court that we have not complied with a software license, we may be required to cease production or
distribution of that work or to publicly disclose the source code for our proprietary software,
which may negatively affect our operations or stock price.

We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through
operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or
current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our
authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems
or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our
operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the
methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.

To be successful we may need to effect investments, alliances and acquisitions, and to integrate
companies we acquire.

Although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in
internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes
and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to
pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review
investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment
our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition
transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in:

•

issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders,

•

large, one-time write-offs,

•

the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities,

•

the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company,

•

amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and

•

the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.

Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult,
expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and
customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition,
we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment.
When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with
a charge against earnings.

Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for
someone

to acquire control of us.

We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of
incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that
would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our
Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as:

•

the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered
basis, one class each year,

•

the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more
series without further authorization of stockholders,



•

a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent,

•

elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders,

•

a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of
directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders,

•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3 percent of our shares be obtained
to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of
incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws,

•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend
or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal
of directors, the classified board or the right to act by written consent,

•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for
business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors and,
in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more
of our shares, a majority of the members of Board of Directors in office prior to the time such
other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares,

•

a fair price provision, and

•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend
or repeal the fair price provision.

In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any
business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the
time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors
then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the
stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are
met.

Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our
existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce
our products.

The semiconductor and electronics industries have been subject to increasing environmental
regulations. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various
substances, a number of which have been used in our products or processes. For example, the
European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS)
Directive now requires that certain substances be removed from all electronics components. Removing
such substances requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek
alternative substances, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our
products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to
ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative
substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single
source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if
we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines,
penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our
operating results.

We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could
adversely impact our business.

We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing
operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental
protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
current or future regulation of the materials necessary for



our products would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such
regulations regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact
of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly
require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. We cannot
assure you that the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy
environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable
environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, the price of our
notes may fluctuate.

The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such
fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:

•

our performance and prospects,

•

the performance and prospects of our major customers,

•

the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock,

•

investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate,

•

changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts,

•

general financial and other market conditions, and

•

domestic and international economic conditions.

Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility,
particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected
the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or
disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market
fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and our price-to-earnings
multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often
shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction,
particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Our Company has been, and in the future may be, the
subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our
stock price. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We own and lease manufacturing facilities and other real estate properties in the United States and
a number of foreign countries. For information regarding property, plant and equipment by
geographic region for each of the last two fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We own and lease approximately 760,000 square feet and 62,000 square feet,
respectively, of office and manufacturing space. In addition, we lease approximately 343,000 square
feet of sales office and design center space with approximately 22% of this space located in
foreign countries. We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and have executive offices in
Irvine, California. The following table sets forth our principal facilities:



Location

Owned/Leased

Primary Function

Woburn, Massachusetts

Owned

Corporate headquarters and manufacturing

Irvine, California

Leased

Office space and design center

Newbury Park, California

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Newbury Park, California

Leased

Design center

Adamstown, Maryland

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Mexicali, Mexico

Owned

Assembly and test facility

Due to the exit of our baseband product area, we vacated a portion of the office and design center
space in Irvine, California and certain of our sales office and design
center space at foreign locations during fiscal year 2007.

We believe our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain
all the equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels.

Certain of our facilities, including our California and Mexico facilities, are located near major
earthquake fault lines. We maintain no earthquake insurance with respect to these facilities.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

From time to time various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be,
instituted or asserted against Skyworks, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to Skyworks. Intellectual property
disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against Skyworks, could
materially and adversely affect the financial condition, or results of operations of Skyworks. We
are not currently subject to any material legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended September
28, 2007.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “SWKS”. The
following table sets forth the range of high and low sale prices for our common stock for the
periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The number of stockholders of
record of Skyworks’ common stock as of November 19, 2007,
was approximately 31,600.

High

Low

Fiscal year ended September 28, 2007:

First quarter

$

7.86

$

5.06

Second quarter

7.48

5.67

Third quarter

7.47

5.69

Fourth quarter

9.44

6.93

Fiscal year ended September 29, 2006:

First quarter

$

7.14

$

4.64

Second quarter

7.09

5.01

Third quarter

8.00

5.15

Fourth quarter

5.80

4.03

Skyworks has not paid cash dividends on its common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash
dividends in the foreseeable future. Our expectation is to retain all of our future earnings, if
any, to finance future growth.

The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made by us during
the fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2007:

Maximum Number (or

Approximately

Total Number of

Dollar Value) of

Shares Purchased as

Shares that May Yet

Part of Publicly

Be Purchased Under

Total Number of

Averaged Price

Announced Plans

the Plans or

Period

Shares Purchased

Paid per Share

or Programs

Programs

August 2, 2007

3,246(1)

$8.03

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

August 14, 2007

5,226(1)

$7.50

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

August 20, 2007

21,906(1)

$7.50

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

September 27, 2007

74,225(1)

$9.21

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

(1)

All shares of common stock reported in the table above were repurchased by Skyworks at the
fair market value of the common stock on August 2, 2007, August 14, 2007, August 20, 2007, and
September 27, 2007, respectively, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations
under restricted stock agreements between Skyworks and certain of its key employees.

(2)

Skyworks has no publicly announced plans or programs.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

You should read the data set forth below in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s
fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2007 consisted of 52 weeks and ended
on September 28, 2007, and fiscal years 2006 and 2005 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on
September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively. The following balance sheet data and
statements of operations data for the five years ended September 28, 2007 were derived from our
audited consolidated financial statements. Consolidated balance sheets at September 28, 2007 and at
September 29, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2007, and notes thereto appear elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Fiscal Year

2007(6)

2006(6)




(In thousands except per share data)

Statement of Operations Data:

Net revenues

$

741,744

$

773,750

$

792,371

$

784,023

$

617,789

Cost of goods sold (5)

454,359

511,071

484,599

470,807

370,940

Gross profit

287,385

262,679

307,772

313,216

246,849

Operating expenses:

Research and development

126,075

164,106

152,215

152,633

156,077

Selling, general and administrative (4)

94,950

135,801

103,070

97,522

85,432

Amortization of intangible assets (1)

2,144

2,144

2,354

3,043

4,386

Restructuring and special charges (2)

5,730

26,955

—

17,366

34,493

Total operating expenses

228,899

329,006

257,639

270,564

280,388

Operating income (loss)

58,486

(66,327

)

50,133

42,652

(33,539

)

Interest expense

(12,590

)

(14,797

)

(14,597

)

(17,947

)

(21,403

)

Other income (expense), net

10,874

8,350

5,453

1,691

1,317

Income (loss) before income taxes and
cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle

56,770

(72,774

)

40,989

26,396

(53,625

)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

(880

)

15,378

15,378

3,984


Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

57,650

(88,152

)

25,611

22,412

(54,277

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax (3)

—

—

—

—

(397,139

)

Net income (loss)

$

57,650

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

Per share information:

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle, basic and
diluted

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(0.39

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax, basic and diluted
(3)

—

—

—

—

(2.85

)

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(3.24

)

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

316,494

$

245,223

$

337,747

$

282,613

$

249,279

Total assets

1,189,908

1,090,496

1,187,843

1,168,806

1,090,668

Long-term liabilities

206,338

185,783

237,044

235,932

280,677

Stockholders’ equity

786,347

729,093

792,564

751,623

673,175

(1)

Amounts in fiscal 2003 through 2007 primarily reflect amortization of current technology and
customer relationships.

(2)

In fiscal 2007, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $4.9 million related
to the exit of the baseband product. These charges consist of $4.5 million relating to the
exit of certain operating leases, $0.5 million relating to additional severance, $1.4 million
related to the write-off of technology licenses and design software, offset by a $1.5 million credit related to the reversal of a reserve originally
recorded to account for an engineering vendor charge associated with the exit of the baseband
product area. We also recorded an additional approximate $0.8 million charge in restructuring
reserves. This charge consists of a single lease obligation that expires in 2008.

In fiscal 2006, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $27.0 million related
to the exit of our baseband product area. Of the $27.0 million, $13.1 million related to
severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the write-down of technology licenses and
design software associated with the baseband product area, $4.2 million related to the
impairment of baseband related long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges.

In fiscal 2004, we recorded restructuring and special charges of $17.4 million, principally
related to the impairment of legacy technology licenses related to our baseband product area.

In fiscal 2003, we recorded restructuring and special charges of $34.5 million, principally
related to the impairment of assets related to our infrastructure products.

(3)

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” on October 1, 2002. As a result of this adoption, we performed a
transitional evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Based on
this transitional evaluation, we determined that our goodwill was impaired and recorded a
charge of $397.1 million for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in fiscal
2003.

(4)

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded bad debt
expense of $35.1 million. Specifically, we recorded
charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an Asian component distributor.

(5)

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded $23.3 million of inventory charges and
reserves primarily related to the exit of our baseband product area.

(6)

Fiscal years ended September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006 included $13.7 million and $14.2
million, respectively, of share-based compensation expense due to the adoption of the
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,”
(“SFAS 123(R)”). Fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 includes share-based compensation
expense of approximately $1.3 million, $5.6 million and $6.8 million in cost of goods sold,
research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense,
respectively, and fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 includes share-based compensation
expense of approximately $2.2 million, $6.3 million and $5.7 million in cost of goods sold,
research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense,
respectively.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should
be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following
discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual
results may differ substantially and adversely from those referred to herein due to a number of
factors, including but not limited to those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of high performance analog and mixed signal semiconductors that enable wireless connectivity.
Our power amplifiers (PAs), front-end modules (FEMs) and integrated radio frequency (RF) solutions
can be found in many of the cellular handsets sold by the world’s leading manufacturers. Leveraging
our core analog technologies, we also offer a diverse portfolio of linear integrated circuits (ICs) that support automotive, broadband, cellular
infrastructure, industrial and medical applications.



BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

We have aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. Our
mobile platform solutions include highly customized PAs, FEMs, and integrated RF transceivers that
are at the heart of many of today’s leading-edge multimedia handsets. Our primary customers for
these products include top-tier handset manufacturers such as Sony Ericsson, Motorola, Samsung, LG
Electronics and Research in Motion. In parallel, we offer over 800 different linear products via a
catalogue to a highly diversified non-handset customer base. Our linear products are precision
analog integrated circuits that target markets in cellular infrastructure, broadband networking,
medical, automotive and industrial applications, among others. Representative linear products
include synthesizers, mixers, switches, diodes and RF receivers. Our primary customers for linear
products include Ericsson, Huawei, Alcatel ·Lucent, ZTE and Broadcom, as well as leading
distributors such as Avnet.

We are a leader in the PA and FEM market for cellular handsets, and plan to build upon our position
by continuing to develop more highly integrated and higher performance products necessary for the
next generation of multimedia handsets. Our competitors in the mobile platforms market include RF
Micro Devices, Anadigics and TriQuint Semiconductor. In the linear products market, we plan to
continue to grow by both expanding distribution of our standard components and by leveraging its
core analog technologies to develop integrated products for specific customer applications. Our
competitors in the linear products market include Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear
Technology and Maxim Integrated Products.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2007 consisted of 52
weeks and ended on September 28, 2007, and fiscal years 2006 and 2005 each consisted of 52 weeks
and ended on September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 28, 2007, SEPTEMBER 29, 2006, AND SEPTEMBER 30, 2005

The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net
revenues for the fiscal years below:




Net revenues

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of goods sold

61.3

66.1

61.2

Gross margin

38.7

33.9

38.8

Operating expenses:

Research and development

17.0

21.2

19.2

Selling, general and administrative

12.8

17.6

13.0

Amortization of intangible assets

0.3

0.3

0.3

Restructuring and special charges

0.8

3.5

—

Total operating expenses

30.9

42.6

32.5

Operating income (loss)

7.8

(8.7

)

6.3

Interest expense

(1.7

)

(1.9

)

(1.8

)

Other income, net

1.5

1.1

0.7

Income (loss) before income taxes

7.6

(9.5

)

5.2

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

(0.1

)

2.0

2.0

Net income (loss)

7.7

%

(11.5

)%

3.2

%



GENERAL

During fiscal 2007, certain key factors contributed to our overall results of operations and cash
flows from operations. More specifically:



NET REVENUES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Net revenues

$

741,744

(4.1

)%

$

773,750

(2.4

)%

$

792,371

We market and sell our mobile platforms and linear products to top tier Original Equipment
Manufacturers (“OEMs”) of communication electronic products, third-party Original Design
Manufacturers (“ODMs”) and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components
distributors. We periodically enter into strategic arrangements leveraging our broad intellectual
property portfolio by licensing or selling our patents or other intellectual property. We
anticipate continuing this intellectual property strategy in future periods.

Overall revenues in fiscal 2007 declined by $32.0 million, or 4.1%, from fiscal 2006 due to the
exit of our baseband product area at the end of fiscal year 2006. Revenues from our Core Products
remained relatively unchanged over that same period. We experienced a more favorable product mix
in fiscal 2007 which was offset by a decline in average selling prices of 8.1% and units sold of
1.5% in our Core Products area.

Revenues from our Core Products increased by $77.9 million, or 11.9%, from fiscal 2005 to fiscal
2006. Overall, net revenues decreased slightly in fiscal 2006 when compared to fiscal 2005
primarily as a result of a decrease in baseband product area revenues of $77.1 million (a 62.7%
decrease). Units sold in our Core Product areas increased by 33.2% somewhat offset by an overall
average selling price decline of approximately 10% in our Linear Product area and approximately 2%
in our front-end solutions and multimode radio product area.

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region and customer concentration for each of
the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

GROSS PROFIT

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Gross profit

$

287,385

9.4

%

$

262,679

(14.7

)%

$

307,772

% of net revenues

38.7

%

33.9

%

38.8

%

Gross profit represents net revenues less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily
of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and equity based compensation
expense) associated with product manufacturing and sustaining engineering expenses pertaining to
products sold.

Gross profit as a percentage of sales improved to 38.7% from 33.9% in fiscal year 2007, as compared
to fiscal year 2006, as higher gross profit margin Core Products became a greater percentage of our
overall sales since we exited the lower margin baseband product area at the end of fiscal 2006.
Additionally, inventory related charges recorded in fiscal 2006 related to the exit of our baseband
product area did not recur in fiscal 2007. Furthermore, we improved absorption as our factory
utilization increased and we experienced improved overall yields and greater equipment efficiency.
Finally, we benefited from higher contribution
margins received from the licensing and sale of intellectual property in fiscal year 2007 as
compared to fiscal year 2006.

Gross profit for fiscal 2006 decreased by $45.1 million from approximately $307.8 million in fiscal
2005 and gross profit margin decreased to 33.9% from 38.8% in fiscal 2005. Gross profit on our Core
Products actually increased in aggregate dollars in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. The
decrease in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales was primarily due to the $23.3
million (approximately 50% of the decrease in aggregate dollars) in inventory related charges
associated with the exit of the baseband product area in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.



Additionally, the decline in baseband product area revenues in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
2005 of $77.1 million resulted in an approximate decline in contribution margin of $38.6 million.
We also incurred approximately $2.2 million in share-based compensation expense in cost of goods
sold in fiscal 2006 related to our adoption of SFAS 123(R). No share-based compensation expense was
recorded in fiscal 2005 in cost of goods sold.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Research and development

$

126,075

(23.2

)%

$

164,106

7.8

%

$

152,215

% of net revenues

17.0

%

21.2

%

19.2

%

Research and development expenses consist principally of direct personnel costs, costs for
pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, and design and test tool costs.

The decrease in research and development expenses in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net
revenues in fiscal year 2007 when compared to fiscal year 2006 is predominantly attributable to
decreased labor and benefit costs as a result of the workforce reductions associated with the exit
of our baseband product area at the end of fiscal 2006. In addition, efficiencies were achieved in
the utilization of outside services, fixed materials and supplies, rent costs, relocation costs,
business travel and hardware/software costs. The reductions in the labor intensive research and
development costs associated with the exit of our baseband product area has enabled us to refocus,
enhance and target our research and development spending on our higher growth core product areas in
fiscal year 2007 which we believe will drive future revenue in these product areas.

Research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2006 when compared to fiscal 2005 by $11.9
million, or 7.8%. This increase is primarily attributable to increased labor and benefit costs
incurred to support our next generation multimode radios and precision analog semiconductors. The
increase in research and development costs primarily supports new product introductions, as well as
new product development, focused on diversifying our product portfolio within our linear products
area outside of the cellular handset market. We also incurred $6.3 million in research and
development related share-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006 related to our adoption of SFAS
123(R). No research and development related share-based compensation expense was recorded in fiscal
2005.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Selling, general and administrative

$

94,950

(30.1

)%

$

135,801

31.8

%

$

103,070

% of net revenues

12.8

%

17.6

%

13.0

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses include personnel costs (legal, accounting, treasury,
human resources, information systems, customer service, etc.), bad debt expense, sales
representative commissions, advertising and other marketing costs.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of
revenues for fiscal year 2007 as compared to fiscal year 2006 primarily due to our recording of
$35.1 million in bad debt expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 as we exited our baseband
product area as well as lower sales commissions expense and lower legal and other professional fees
in fiscal 2007.

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
2005 is principally due to our recording of $35.1 million in bad debt expense in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2006. Specifically, we recorded charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an
Asian component distributor, on accounts receivable associated with our
baseband products. We also incurred $5.7 million in selling, general and administrative related
share-based compensation expense in 2006 related to our adoption of SFAS 123(R). The



increased bad debt and SFAS 123(R) expenses were partially offset by reductions in legal expenses
incurred to protect our intellectual property portfolio.

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND WARRANTS

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Amortization

$

2,144

0.0

%

$

2,144

(8.9

)%

$

2,354

% of net revenues

0.3

%

0.3

%

0.3

%

In 2002, we recorded $36.4 million of intangible assets consisting of developed technology,
customer relationships and a trademark acquired by the Company. These assets are principally being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a 10-year period. Amortization expense in fiscal 2007,
2006, and 2005 primarily represents the amortization of these intangible assets.

Amortization expense on intangible assets declined in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005
primarily due to the recognition of amortization expense on a warrant in fiscal 2005. The warrant
expired without being exercised on January 20, 2005.

For additional information regarding goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 6 of Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Restructuring and special charges

$

5,730

(78.7

)%

$

26,955

100.0

%

$

—

% of net revenues

0.8

%

3.5

%

0.0

%

No special charges were recorded in fiscal 2005.

Restructuring and special charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring
activities, as follows:

On September 29, 2006, the Company exited its baseband product area in order to focus on its core
business encompassing linear products, power amplifiers, front-end modules and radio solutions. The
Company recorded various charges associated with this action.

During the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, we recorded $13.1 million related to severance and
benefits, $7.4 million related to the write-down of technology licenses and design software, $4.2
million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other
charges.

During the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007, we recorded additional restructuring charges of
$4.9 million related to the exit of the baseband product area. These charges consist of $4.5
million relating to the exit of certain operating leases, $0.5 million relating to additional
severance, $1.4 million related to the write-off of technology licenses and design software, offset
by a $1.5 million credit related to the reversal of a reserve originally recorded to account for an
engineering vendor charge associated with the exit of the baseband product area. In addition, the
Company recorded an additional $0.8 million charge for a single lease obligation that expires in
2008 relating to our 2002 restructuring.

For additional information regarding restructuring charges and liability balances, see Note 14 of
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



INTEREST EXPENSE

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Interest expense

$

12,590

(14.9

)%

$

14,797

1.4

%

$

14,597

% of net revenues

1.7

%

1.9

%

1.8

%

Interest expense is comprised principally of payments in connection with the $50.0 million credit
facility between Skyworks USA, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, and Wachovia Bank, N.A.
(“Facility Agreement”), the Company’s 4.75% convertible subordinated notes (the “Junior Notes”),
and the Company’s 1.50% and 1.25% convertible subordinated notes (the “2007 Convertible Notes”).

The decrease in interest expense both in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net revenues for
fiscal 2007, when compared to fiscal 2006, is primarily due to the retirement of $130.0 million of
our higher interest rate Junior Notes replaced with the proceeds of the issuance of the
substantially lower interest rate 2007 Convertible Notes in March 2007.

Interest expense increased for fiscal 2006 as compared to the previous year primarily due to a
higher interest rate paid on the Facility Agreement resulting from an increase in LIBOR during such
period, as well as an increase in the amortization of capitalized deferred financing costs of $0.6
million due to the retirement of $50.7 million of our Junior Notes. This was partially offset by a
decrease in required interest payments due to the retirement of $50.7 million of our Junior Notes
in fiscal 2006.

For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see Note 7 of Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OTHER INCOME, NET

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Other income, net

$

10,874

30.2

%

$

8,350

53.1

%

$

5,453

% of net revenues

1.5

%

1.1

%

0.7

%

Other income, net is comprised primarily of interest income on invested cash balances, other
non-operating income and expense items and foreign exchange gains/losses.

The increase in other income, net between fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, as well as between fiscal
2006 and fiscal 2005 is primarily due to an increase in interest income on invested cash balances
as a result of increased interest rates and higher invested cash balances.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


(Benefit) Provision for
income taxes

$

(880

)

(105.7

)%

$

15,378

0.0

%

$

15,378

% of net revenues

0.1

%

2.0

%

2.0

%

Income tax benefit for fiscal 2007 was $(0.9) million as compared to $15.4 million expense for
fiscal 2006. Income tax (benefit) expense for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 consists of approximately
$(2.2) million and $(0.1) million, respectively, of United States income tax benefit. The fiscal 2007 tax
benefit of $(2.2) million is due to a $(1.7) million



reduction in the valuation allowance related to the partial recognition of future tax benefits on
United States federal and state net operating carryforwards and the
reversal of $(0.5) million of
tax reserve no longer required. The income tax provision for fiscal 2006 was comprised of a favorable adjustment
of $(0.1) million between fiscal 2005’s tax provision and tax return
liability, and foreign tax expense of $15.5
million. The income tax provision for fiscal 2005
of $15.4 million was comprised of U.S. income tax benefit of $(0.7) million, foreign income tax
expense of $5.0 million, and a charge in lieu of tax expense of $11.1 million. The charge in
lieu of tax expense resulted from a partial recognition of certain acquired tax benefits that were
subject to a valuation allowance at the time of acquisition, the realization of which required a
reduction of goodwill.

The provision for foreign income taxes for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was $1.3 million, $15.5
million, and $5.0 million, respectively. Foreign tax expense for fiscal 2006 included a one
time charge of $14.6 million to write off a deferred tax asset as a result of reorganizing our
Mexico business. The fiscal 2005 foreign tax expense included a charge of $2.2 million to
remeasure Mexico’s deferred tax assets because of a reduction to the statutory income tax rate in
Mexico.

In accordance with SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”, management has determined that it is
more likely than not that a portion of our historic and current year income tax benefits will not
be realized. Accordingly, as of September 28, 2007, we have established a valuation allowance of
$151.3 million related to our United States deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets have been
recognized for foreign operations when management believes that it is more likely than not that they
will be recovered.

Realization of the Company’s deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating United States source
income in the future. Based on the Company’s evaluation of the realizability of its United States
net operating loss carryforwards through the generation of future taxable income, $14.2 million of the Company’s valuation allowance was reversed
at September 28, 2007. The amount reversed consisted of $1.7 million recognized as income tax
benefit, and $12.5 million recognized as a reduction to goodwill. The remaining valuation
allowance as of September 28, 2007 is $151.3 million. When recognized, the tax benefits relating
to any future reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets will be accounted for as
follows: approximately $128.8 million will be recognized as an income tax benefit, $18.6 million
will be recognized as a reduction to goodwill and $3.9 million will be recognized as an increase to
shareholders’ equity for certain tax deductions from employee stock options.

The Company will continue to evaluate its valuation allowance in future periods and depending
upon the outcome of that assessment additional amounts could be reversed or recorded and recognized
as a reduction to goodwill or an adjustment to income tax benefit or expense. Such adjustments
could cause our effective income tax rate to vary in future periods. We will need to generate $216.7 million of future United States federal taxable income to utilize all of our
net operating loss carryforwards as of September 28, 2007.

No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign income taxes related to
approximately $11.0 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have been or
are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United States
federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not permanently
reinvested.

On September 14, 2007, the Congress of Mexico approved a new “flat tax” regime which will become
effective January 1, 2008. The new flat tax replaces the corporate asset tax and is similar to a
minimum tax. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this tax upon its future operating
results.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(dollars in thousands)




Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

$

136,749

$

116,522

$

123,505

Net cash provided by operating activities

84,778

27,226

54,197

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

(20,146

)

42,383

(66,424

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

40,196

(49,382

)

5,244

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

241,577

$

136,749

$

116,522



FISCAL 2007

Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2007 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments, will allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures,
debt obligations, purchase obligations, working capital and other cash requirements for at least
the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these expenses
will be available in the future. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we
may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. If we are unable to
obtain enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all, our business and
operations could be materially adversely affected.

Our cash and cash equivalent balances increased by $104.8 million to $241.6 million at September
28, 2007 from $136.7 million at September 29, 2006. Cash and cash equivalent balances and
short-term investments increased by $82.6 million to $253.8 million at September 28, 2007 from
$171.2 million at September 29, 2006. The number of days sales outstanding for the fiscal year
ended September 28, 2007 increased to 80 from 73 as compared to fiscal 2006.

During fiscal 2007, we generated $84.8 million in cash from operating activities. Contributing to
these positive operating cash flows was net income of $57.7 million. We also incurred multiple
non-cash charges (e.g., depreciation, amortization,
contribution of common shares to savings and retirement plans, share-based compensation expense and
non-cash restructuring expense) totaling $66.4 million. In fiscal 2007, we also experienced a
decrease in accounts payable balances of $16.7 million, a decrease in other accrued liability
balances of $10.8 million and an increase in receivable balances of $10.7 million. Furthermore we
experienced an increase in deferred tax assets of $1.7 million primarily resulting from the
partial release of our tax valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Finally,
provision for losses on accounts receivable increased by $2.2 million principally due to further
reserves recorded for baseband product area customers.

During fiscal 2007, we utilized $20.1 million in cash from investing activities. Cash provided by
investing activities in fiscal 2007 consisted of net proceeds of $22.5 million from the sale of
auction rate securities. Capital expenditures of $42.6 million offset these net proceeds and were
primarily related to the purchase of equipment utilized in our fabrication facilities to support
and enhance our assembly and test capacity. We believe a focused program of capital expenditures
will be required to sustain our current manufacturing capabilities. Future capital expenditures
will be funded by the generation of positive cash flows from operations. We may also consider
acquisition opportunities to extend our technology portfolio and design expertise and to expand our
product offerings.

During fiscal 2007, we generated $40.2 million in cash from financing activities. This principally
resulted from the issuance of our 2007 Convertible Notes offering which generated gross proceeds of
$200.0 million, and stock option exercises of $8.3 million, offset by repayment of $130.0 million
on our Junior Notes, a common stock buyback of 4.3 million shares at a cost of approximately $31.7
million, and financing costs associated with our 2007 Convertible Notes offering of $6.2 million.
As of September 28, 2007 our Facility Agreement of $50.0 million is fully drawn. We paid
approximately $12.4 million in interest to service the 2007 Convertible Notes, the Junior Notes and
the Facility Agreement in fiscal 2007. For additional information regarding our borrowing
arrangements, see Note 7 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In connection with our exit of the baseband product area, we anticipate making remaining cash
payments of approximately $4.1 million in future periods. Certain payments on long-term lease
obligations resulting from facility closures and severance payments will be remitted in fiscal 2008
and beyond. We expect our existing sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be
generated from operations and short-term investments, will be sufficient to fund these costs
associated with the exit of our baseband product area.

On July 15, 2003, we entered into a receivables purchase
agreement under which we have agreed to
sell from time to time certain of our accounts receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc. (“Skyworks USA”), a
wholly-owned special purpose entity that is fully consolidated for accounting purposes.
Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement
with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing for a $50.0 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’)
secured by the purchased accounts receivable. As a part of the consolidation, any interest incurred
by Skyworks USA related to



monies it borrows under the Facility Agreement is recorded as interest expense in the Company’s
results of operations. We perform collections and administrative functions on behalf of Skyworks
USA. Interest related to the Facility Agreement is at LIBOR plus 0.4%. As of September 28, 2007,
Skyworks USA had borrowed $50.0 million under this agreement.

We retired the remaining $49.3 million in aggregate principal amount of the Junior
Notes plus $1.2 million in accrued and
unpaid interest, on
the due date of November 15, 2007.

In October 2007, the Company paid
$32.4 million in cash to acquire, from two separate companies,
raw materials, die bank, finished goods, proprietary GaAs PA/FEM
designs and related intellectual property as well as sixteen
fundamental HBT and RF MEMs patents.

FISCAL 2006

Our cash and cash equivalent balances increased by $20.2 million to $136.7 million at September 29,
2006 from $116.5 million at September 30, 2005. Cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term
investments decreased by $64.7 million to $171.2 million at September 29, 2006 from $235.9 million
at September 30, 2005. The number of days sales outstanding for the fiscal year ended September 29,
2006 decreased to 73 from 82 as compared to fiscal 2005 partially due to the recording of allowance
for doubtful accounts relating to the exit of our baseband product area.

During fiscal 2006, we generated $27.2 million in cash from operating activities. Offsetting these
positive operating cash flows were net losses of $88.2 million which included total charges
incurred to exit our baseband product area. We also incurred multiple non-cash charges (e.g.,
depreciation, amortization, contribution of common shares to savings and retirement plans,
share-based compensation expense, non-cash restructuring expense, asset impairment charges and
provision for deferred income taxes) totaling $75.7 million. In fiscal 2006, we also experienced
an increase in other accrued liabilities and expenses of $16.0 million (principally related to
restructuring accruals in the fourth fiscal quarter) and a decrease in deferred tax assets of $16.5
million and an increase of $31.2 million in the provision for losses on accounts receivable
(principally related to the reserves recorded on two baseband customers). These increases were
offset by uses of cash caused by increases of $18.2 million in accounts receivable and $3.5 million
in inventory. However, on a net basis accounts receivable actually declined by $13.0 million when
accounting for the impact of the aforementioned $31.2 million increase in the provision for losses
on accounts receivable.

During fiscal 2006, we generated $42.4 million in cash from investing activities. Cash provided by
investing activities in fiscal 2006 consisted of net proceeds of $85.2 million from the sale of
auction rate securities and proceeds received from the sale of a building and land of $6.6 million.
Capital expenditures of $49.4 million offset these amounts and were primarily related to the
purchase of equipment utilized to support an anticipated expanded level of highly integrated
product demand requiring more technologically enhanced manufacturing capacity. The proceeds from
the net sales of our auction rate securities were utilized, in part, to retire $50.7 million of our
Junior Notes. We believe a focused program of capital expenditures will be required to sustain our
current manufacturing capabilities. Future capital expenditures will be funded by the generation of
positive cash flows from operations. We may also consider acquisition opportunities to extend our
technology portfolio and design expertise and to expand our product offerings.

During fiscal 2006, we utilized $49.4 million in cash from financing activities. This principally
resulted from the retirement of $50.7 million in our Junior Notes and the pledge of $0.3 million in
cash on a new insurance policy offset by stock option exercises of $1.7 million. As of September
29, 2006, our Facility Agreement of $50.0 million is fully drawn. Our Junior Notes of approximately
$179.3 million become due in November 2007. We paid approximately $13.7 million in interest to
service this debt during fiscal 2006. For additional information regarding our borrowing
arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS

Following is a summary of our contractual payment obligations for consolidated debt, purchase
agreements, operating leases, other commitments and long-term liabilities at September 28, 2007
(see Notes 7 and 11 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), in thousands:



Payments Due By Period

Less Than 1

Obligation

Total

Year

1-3 years

3-5 Years

Thereafter(1)

Long-Term Debt Obligations

249,335

49,335

100,000

100,000

—

Other Commitments

5,713

4,454

1,259

—

—

Operating Lease Obligations

20,548

6,862

11,338

2,348

—

Other Long-Term Liabilities (1)

6,338




5,375

$

281,934

$

61,024

$

112,931

$

102,604

$

5,375

(1)

Other Long-Term Liabilities includes $4.3 million of Executive Deferred Compensation
for which there is a corresponding long term asset.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various
other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. To the extent actual results differ from those estimates, our
future results of operations may be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies
affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees and
intellectual property is recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other criteria of
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, (“Revenue Recognition”) have been met. We ship product on
consignment to certain customers and only recognize revenue when the customer notifies us that the
inventory has been consumed. Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings
process is incomplete. Certain product sales are made to electronic component distributors under
agreements allowing for price protection and/or a right of return on unsold products. A reserve for
sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific
identification of an event necessitating a reserve.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
required.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or market.
The Company provides for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. The recoverability of inventories is assessed through an
on-going review of inventory levels in relation to sales backlog and forecasts, product marketing
plans and product life cycles. When the inventory on hand exceeds the foreseeable demand (generally
in excess of twelve months), the value of such inventory that is not expected to be sold at the
time of the review is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of historical cost
over estimated realizable value (generally zero).

Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the
excess inventory. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional inventory
write-downs may be required. Some or all of the inventories that have been written-down may be
retained and made available for sale. In the event that actual demand is higher than originally
projected, a portion of these inventories



may be able to be sold in the future. Inventories that
have been written-down and are identified as obsolete are generally scrapped.

SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

On October 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) which requires the measurement and
recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and
directors including employee stock options, employee stock purchases related to the Company’s 2002
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, restricted stock and other special equity awards based on estimated
fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company’s previous accounting under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”) for periods beginning
in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107, “Share Based Payment” (“SAB 107”), providing interpretative guidance relating to
SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R).

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires
the application of the applicable accounting standard as of October 1, 2005, the first day of the
Company’s fiscal year 2006.

The Company’s practice in general is to issue shares of common stock upon exercise or settlement of
options and to issue shares in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) from
previously unissued shares.

Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion
of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards
granted on or before, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation expense
for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date
fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As share-based compensation
expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended September
28, 2007 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated
forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to retain its method of valuation for share-based
awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes model”) which was also
previously used for the Company’s pro forma information required under SFAS 123. The Company’s
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to;
the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected
employee stock option exercise behaviors.

SFAS 123(R) requires the Company to evaluate and periodically validate several assumptions in
conjunction with calculating share-based compensation expense. These assumptions include the
expected life of a stock option or other equity based award, expected volatility, pre-vesting
forfeiture, risk free rate and expected dividend yield. All of these assumptions affect to one
degree or another, the valuation of the Company’s equity based awards or the recognition of the
resulting share-based compensation expense. The most significant assumptions in the Company’s
calculations are described below.

Expected Life of an Option or other Equity Based Award

Since employee options are non-transferable, SFAS 123(R) allows the use of an expected life to more
accurately estimate the value of an employee stock option rather than using the full contractual
term.

The vesting of the majority of the Company’s stock options are graded over four years (25% at each
anniversary) and the contractual term is either 7 years or 10 years. The Company analyzed its
historical exercise experience and



exercise behavior by job group. The Company analyzed the following three exercise metrics: exercise
at full vesting, exercise at midpoint in the contractual life and exercise at the end of the full
contractual term. The Company chose the mid-point alternative as the estimate which most closely
approximated actual exercise experience of its employee population. The valuation and resulting
share-based compensation expense recorded is sensitive to what alternative is chosen and the choice
of another alternative in the future could result in a material difference in the amount of
share-based compensation expense recorded in a reporting period.

Expected Volatility

Expected volatility is a statistical measure of the amount by which a stock price is expected to
fluctuate during a period. SFAS 123(R) does not specify a method for estimating expected
volatility; instead it provides a list of factors that should be considered when estimating
volatility: historical volatility that is generally commensurate with the expected option life,
implied volatilities, the length of time a stock has been publicly traded, regular intervals for
price observations, corporate and capital structure and the possibility of mean reversion. The
Company analyzed its volatility history and determined that the selection of a weighting of 50% to
historical volatility and 50% to implied volatility (as measured by examining the underlying
volatility in the open market of publicly traded call options) would provide the best estimate of
expected future volatility of the stock price. The selection of another methodology to calculate
volatility or even a different weighting between implied volatility and historical volatility could
materially impact the valuation of stock options and other equity based awards and the resulting
amount of share-based compensation expense recorded in a reporting period.

Pre-Vesting Forfeiture

SFAS 123(R) specifies that initial accruals of share-based compensation expense should be based on
the estimated number of instruments for which the requisite service is expected to be rendered.
The Company examined its options forfeiture history and computed an average annualized forfeiture
percentage. The Company determined that a weighted average of historical annualized forfeitures is
the best estimate of future actual forfeiture experience. The application of a different
methodology for calculating estimated forfeitures could materially impact the amount of share-based
compensation expense recorded in a reporting period.

VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which excludes
goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets.” Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset or asset group may
not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition. The estimate
of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future
operating performance. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual
cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to the
Company’s business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset or asset group, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds
the fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested at least annually for impairment in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The
goodwill and other intangible asset impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the
impairment analysis compares the Company’s fair value to its net book value to determine if there
is an indicator of impairment. In determining fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of
several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of
fair value. The Company calculates fair value using the average market price of its common stock
over a seven-day period surrounding the annual impairment testing date of the first day of the
fourth fiscal quarter and the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the
annual impairment test (the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter). If the assessment in the first
step indicates impairment then the Company performs step two. Step two of



the analysis compares the implied fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to its
carrying amount in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for a business combination. If
the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds its implied fair value, an
impairment loss is recognized equal to that excess. We test our goodwill and other intangible
assets for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim
periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible
assets may be impaired. Indicators such as unexpected adverse business conditions, economic
factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel, and
acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. This method also requires the
recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that
realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

The carrying value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able
to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and
assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Management
evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation
allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event that the Company was to determine that it would be able
to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an
adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of
goodwill in the period such determination was made.

It was previously the Company’s intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of all
its foreign subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, “Accounting
for Income Taxes — Special Areas”. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company
reversed its policy of permanently reinvesting the earnings of its Mexican business. This policy
reversal increased the 2005 tax provision by $9.0 million. For the fiscal year ended September 28,
2007, U.S. income tax was provided on current earnings attributable to our operations in Mexico. No
provision has been made for U.S. federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes that would be
due upon the actual or deemed distribution of undistributed earnings of the other foreign
subsidiaries, which have been, or are, intended to be, permanently reinvested.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the
APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero and the ending APIC pool balance at September 28, 2007
remains zero.



RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

FIN

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting and
disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions, as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in
practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting
for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006, and is therefore effective for the Company in fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating
the impact that adopting FIN 48 will have on the Company’s financial position and results of
operations, however at this time the Company does not expect the impact to materially affect its
results from operations or financial position.

SFAS 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”) which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim
periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that SFAS 157 will
have on its results from operations or financial position.

SAB 108

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
“Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”), which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. The
Company adopted SAB 108 in fiscal year 2007 and its adoption did not materially impact its results
from operations or financial position.

SFAS 159

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”) including an amendment of SFAS No. 115, which permits entities
to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not
currently required to be measured at fair value. SFAS 159 is effective for the Company beginning in
fiscal 2009. The Company is currently evaluating SFAS 159 and the impact that it may have on
results of operations or financial position.

OTHER MATTERS

Inflation did not have a material impact upon our results of operations during the three-year
period ended September 28, 2007.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

We are subject to market risks, such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
short-term debt and long-term debt. Our main investment objective is the preservation of investment
capital. Consequently, we invest with only high-credit-quality issuers and we limit the amount of
our credit exposure to any one issuer. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative or
investment purposes.

Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short
maturities of these instruments. As of September 28, 2007, the carrying value of our cash and cash
equivalents approximates fair value.

Our short term investments consist of auction rate securities which have long-term underlying
maturities (ranging from 20 to 40 years). The market has historically been highly liquid and the
interest rates reset every 28 or 31 days. The Company’s intent is not to hold these securities to
maturity, but rather to use the interest rate reset feature to sell these securities to provide
liquidity as needed. The Company’s practice is to invest in these securities for higher yields
compared to cash equivalents. Such short-term investments are carried at amortized cost, which
approximates fair value, due to the short time period associated with the interest reset feature.
Gains and losses are included in investment income in the period they
are realized. Due to their inherent structure, auction rate securities
carry higher market risk than commercial paper investments.

Our short-term debt consists of borrowings under our credit facility with Wachovia Bank, N.A of
$50.0 million, and Junior Notes with current maturities of $49.3 million (4.75% unsecured
convertible subordinated notes due November 2007). Interest related to our borrowings under our
credit facility with Wachovia Bank, N.A. is at LIBOR plus 0.4% and was approximately 5.4% at
September 28, 2007. Consequently, we do not have significant cash flow exposure on this short-term
debt. The Junior Notes are convertible into our common stock at a
predetermined conversion price. Convertible debt has characteristics that give rise to both
interest-rate risk and market risk because the fair value of the convertible security is affected
by both the current interest-rate environment and the price of the underlying common stock. For the
year ended September 28, 2007, our Junior Notes, on an if-converted basis, were not dilutive
and, as a result, had no impact on our net income (loss) per share (assuming dilution). We do not
believe that we have significant cash flow exposure on our Junior Notes.

Our long-term debt consists of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible
subordinated notes (“2007 Convertible Notes”). These 2007 Convertible Notes contain cash settlement
provisions, which permit the application of the treasury stock method in determining potential
share dilution of the conversion spread should the share price of the Company’s common stock exceed
$9.52. It has been the Company’s historical practice to cash settle the principal and interest
components of convertible debt instruments, and it is our intention to continue to do so in the
future, including settlement of the 2007 Convertible Notes issued in March 2007. These shares have
not been included in the computation of earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 28,
2007, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. The maximum potential dilution from the
settlement of the 2007 Convertible Notes would be approximately 21.0 million shares. We do not
believe that we have significant cash flow exposure on our Junior Notes.

Based on our overall evaluation of our market risk exposures from all of our financial instruments
at September 28, 2007, a near-term change in interest rates would not materially affect our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is primarily the result of foreign
subsidiaries domiciled in various foreign countries. We do not currently use financial derivative
instruments to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our foreign subsidiaries, as
we do not believe we have any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk because most of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars.



TEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal year ended
September 28, 2007 are included herewith:

(1)

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 48

(2)

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 28,
2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005

Page 49

(3)

Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006

Page 50

(4)

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended September 28,
2007, September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005

Page 51

(5)

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive
Income (Loss) for the Years Ended September 28, 2007, September 29,
2006, and September 30, 2005

Page 52

(6)

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 53 through 77



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. as of
September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended September 28, 2007. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements,
we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15 of the 2007 Form 10-K. We also have audited Skyworks Solutions Inc.’s internal
control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2007, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Skyworks Solutions, Inc.’s management is responsible for these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule, and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. as of September 28, 2007 and
September 29, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended September 28, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in our opinion, Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 28, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

November 27, 2007



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Net revenues

$

741,744

$

773,750

$

792,371

Cost of goods sold (includes
share-based compensation expense of
$1,274 and $2,174 for the fiscal
years ended September 28, 2007 and
September 29, 2006, respectively)

454,359

511,071

484,599

Gross profit

287,385

262,679

307,772

Operating expenses:

Research and development (includes
share-based compensation expense of
$5,590 and $6,311 for the fiscal
years ended September 28, 2007 and
September 29, 2006, respectively)

126,075

164,106

152,215

Selling, general and administrative
(includes share-based compensation
expense of $6,873 and $5,734 for
the fiscal years ended September
28, 2007 and September 29, 2006,
respectively)

94,950

135,801

103,070

Amortization of intangible assets

2,144

2,144

2,354

Restructuring and special charges

5,730

26,955

—

Total operating expenses

228,899

329,006

257,639

Operating income (loss)

58,486

(66,327

)

50,133

Interest expense

(12,590

)

(14,797

)

(14,597

)

Other income, net

10,874

8,350

5,453

Income (loss) before income taxes

56,770

(72,774

)

40,989

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

(880

)

15,378

15,378

Net income (loss) )

$

57,650

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

Per share information:

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

Number of weighted-average shares
used in per share computations,
basic

159,993

159,408

157,453

Number of weighted-average shares
used in per share computations,
diluted

161,064

159,408

158,857

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

As of

September 28,

September 29,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

241,577

$

136,749

Short-term investments

5,700

28,150

Restricted cash

6,502

6,302

Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,662 and
$37,022, respectively

167,319

158,798

Inventories

82,109

81,529

Other current assets

10,511

9,315

Total current assets

513,718

420,843

Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization of $280,738 and $250,195, respectively

153,516

150,383

Goodwill

480,890

493,389

Intangible assets, less accumulated amortization of $13,199 and $11,055,
respectively

13,442

15,586

Deferred tax assets

14,459


Other assets

13,883

10,044

Total assets

$

1,189,908

$

1,090,496

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Short-term debt

$

99,335

$

50,000

Accounts payable

56,417

73,071

Accrued compensation and benefits

28,392

25,297

Other current liabilities

13,079

27,252

Total current liabilities

197,223

175,620

Long-term debt, less current maturities

200,000

179,335

Other long-term liabilities

6,338

6,448

Total liabilities

403,561

361,403

Commitments and contingencies (Note 11 and Note 12)

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, no par value: 25,000 shares authorized, no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.25 par value: 525,000 shares authorized; 165,593 shares
issued and 161,101 shares outstanding at September 28, 2007 and 161,690
shares issued and 161,659 shares outstanding at September 29, 2006

40,275

40,414

Additional paid-in capital

1,382,230

1,351,190

Treasury Stock

(31,855

)

(173

)

Accumulated deficit

(604,089

)

(661,739

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(214

)

(599

)

Total stockholders’ equity

786,347

729,093

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

1,189,908

$

1,090,496

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

57,650

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by
operating activities:

Share-based compensation expense

13,737

14,219

—

Depreciation

39,237

38,217

37,277

Charge in lieu of income tax expense

—

—

11,104

Amortization of intangible assets

2,144

2,144

2,354

Amortization of deferred financing costs

2,311

1,992

1,596

Contribution of common shares to savings and retirement plans

8,565

8,064

10,437

Non-cash restructuring expense


6,426

—

Deferred income taxes

(1,741

)

16,547

3,253

Loss on sale of assets




Asset impairments

—

4,197

—

Provision for losses on accounts receivable

2,203

31,206

5,127

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Receivables

(10,724

)

(18,177

)

(18,809

)

Inventories

(247

)

(3,454

)

2,172

Other assets

(1,534

)

(3,395

)

(3,706

)

Accounts payable

(16,654

)


(1,129

)

Other liabilities

(10,815

)

16,524

(21,118

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

84,778

27,226

54,197

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures

(42,596

)

(49,359

)

(38,135

)

Receipts from property held for sale

—

6,567

—

Sale of short-term investments

978,046

1,094,985

1,223,181

Purchase of short-term investments

(955,596

)

(1,009,810

)

(1,251,470

)

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

(20,146

)

42,383

(66,424

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from 2007 Convertible Notes

200,000

—

—

Payments on Junior Notes

(130,000

)

(50,665

)

—

Deferred financing costs

(6,189

)

—

—

Change in restricted cash

(200

)

(290

)

—

Repurchase of common stock

(31,681

)

(173

)

—

Exercise of stock options

8,266

1,746

5,244

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

40,196

(49,382

)

5,244

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

104,828

20,227

(6,983

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

136,749

116,522

123,505

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

241,577

$

136,749

$

116,522

Supplemental cash flow disclosures:

Taxes paid

$

1,117

$

2,023

$

1,221

Interest paid

$

12,479

$

13,787

$

13,030

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activities:

Non-cash proceeds received from non-monetary exchange

$

—

$


$

—

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(In thousands)

Par value

Accumulated

Shares of

of

Shares of

Value of

Additional

Other

Total

Common

Common

Treasury

Treasury

Paid-in

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Stock

Stock

Stock

Stock

Capital

Deficit

Loss

Equity

Balance at October 1, 2004

156,012

39,003

—

—

1,312,603

(599,197

)

(786

)

751,623

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

25,611

—

25,611

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(351

)

(351

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(351

)

(351

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

25,260

Issuance of common shares
for stock purchase plans,
401(k) and stock option
plans

2,452


—

—

14,932

—

—

15,545

Issuance and expense of
restricted stock and
acceleration of options



—

—


—

—


Balance at September 30, 2005

158,625

$

39,656

—

$

—

$

1,327,631

$

(573,586

)

$

(1,137

)

$

792,564

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

(88,153

)

—

(88,153

)

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—



Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—



Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(87,615

)

Issuance and expense of
common shares for stock
purchase plans, 401(k) and
stock option plans

1,982


—

—

22,528

—

—

23,024

Issuance and expense of
common shares for restricted
stock and performance shares

1,083


—

—

1,023

—

—

1,293

Shares withheld for taxes

(31

)

(8

)


(173

)


—

—

(173

)

Balance at September 29, 2006

161,659

$

40,414


$

(173

)

$

1,351,190

$

(661,739

)

$

(599

)

$

729,093

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

57,650

—

57,650

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—



Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—



Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

57,809

Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158

—

—

—

—

—

—



Issuance and expense of
common shares for stock
purchase plans, 401(k) and
stock option plans

3,221


—

—

25,468

—

—

26,273

Issuance and expense of
common shares for restricted
stock and performance shares



—

—

4,457

—

—

4,628

Repurchase of common stock

(4,255

)

(1,064

)

4,255

(30,083

)

1,064

—

—

(30,083

)

Shares withheld for taxes

(206

)

(51

)


(1,599

)


—

—

(1,599

)

Balance at September 28, 2007

161,101

$

40,275

4,492

$

(31,855

)

$

1,382,230

$

(604,089

)

$

(214

)

$

786,347



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) designs, manufactures and markets a broad
range of high performance analog and mixed signal semiconductors that enable wireless connectivity.
Our power amplifiers (PAs), front-end modules (FEMs) and integrated radio frequency (RF) solutions
can be found in many of the cellular handsets sold by the world’s leading manufacturers. Leveraging
our core analog technologies, we also offer a diverse portfolio of linear integrated circuits (ICs)
that support automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, industrial and medical applications.

Skyworks was formed through the merger (“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement
and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16, 2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and
among Alpha, Conexant and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). For purposes of
this Annual Report, the Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are collectively referred
to as “Washington/Mexicali”. Shortly thereafter, Alpha, which was incorporated in Delaware in 1962,
changed its corporate name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees and
intellectual property sales is recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other
criteria of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, (“Revenue Recognition”) have been met. We ship
product on consignment to certain customers and only recognize revenue when the customer notifies
us that the inventory has been consumed. Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where
the earnings process is incomplete. Certain product sales are made to electronic component
distributors under agreements allowing for price protection and/or a right of return on unsold
products. A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical
experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
required

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

All majority owned subsidiaries are included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and
all intercompany balances are eliminated in consolidation.

FISCAL YEAR

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2007 consisted of 52
weeks and ended on September 28, 2007, and fiscal years 2006 and 2005 each consisted of 52 weeks
and ended on September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively.



USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management reviews its estimates based upon currently
available information. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents include cash deposited in demand deposits at banks and highly liquid
investments with original maturities of 90 days or less as well as commercial paper with original
maturities of 90 days or less.

SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

The Company’s short-term investments are classified as available for sale. These investments
consist of auction rate securities which have long-term underlying maturities (ranging from 20 to
40 years), however the market has historically been highly liquid and the interest rates reset
every 28 or 31 days. The Company’s intent is not to hold these securities to maturity, but rather
to use the interest rate reset feature to sell these securities to provide liquidity as needed. The
Company’s practice is to invest in these securities for higher yields compared to cash equivalents.
Such short-term investments are carried at amortized cost, which approximates fair value, due to
the short time period associated with the interest rate reset feature. Gains and losses are included in
investment income in the period they are realized.

RESTRICTED CASH

Restricted cash is primarily used to collateralize the Company’s obligation under a receivables
purchase agreement under which it has agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts
receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc. (“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is
fully consolidated for accounting purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement
with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing for a $50 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’)
secured by the purchased accounts receivable. For further information regarding the Facility
Agreement, please see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or market
value. The Company provides for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory based upon
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. The recoverability of inventories is
assessed through an on-going review of inventory levels in relation to sales backlog and forecasts,
product marketing plans and product life cycles. When the inventory on hand exceeds the foreseeable
demand (generally in excess of twelve months), the value of such inventory that is not expected to
be sold at the time of the review is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of
historical cost over estimated realizable value (generally zero).

Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the
excess inventory. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Some or all of the inventories that
have been written-down may be retained and made available for sale. In the event that actual demand
is higher than originally projected, a portion of these inventories may be able to be sold in the
future. Inventories that have been written-down and are identified as obsolete are generally
scrapped.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method. Significant renewals and betterments are
capitalized and equipment taken out of service is written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as
renewals of a minor amount, are expensed as incurred.



Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes are 5 to 30 years for buildings and
improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated
over the lesser of the economic life or the life of the associated lease.

VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which excludes
goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset or
asset group may not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition.
The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected
future operating performance. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from
actual cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes
to the Company’s business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the
undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset or asset
group, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying
value exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined using discounted
cash flows.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested at least annually for impairment in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The
goodwill and other intangible asset impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the
impairment analysis compares the Company’s fair value to its net book value to determine if there
is an indicator of impairment. In determining fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of
several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of
fair value. The Company calculates fair value using the average market price of its common stock
over a seven-day period surrounding the annual impairment testing date of the first day of the
fourth fiscal quarter and the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the
annual impairment test (the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter). If the assessment in the
first step indicates impairment then the Company performs step two. Step two of the analysis
compares the implied fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to its carrying amount in a
manner similar to a purchase price allocation for a business combination. If the carrying amount of
goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized equal to that excess. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment
annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events
occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets may be impaired.
Indicators such as unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated
technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel, and acts by governments and
courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.

DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS

Financing costs are capitalized as an asset on the Company’s balance sheet and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the financing. The Company amortized additional deferred
financing costs during fiscal 2007 due to the early extinguishment of $130.0 million of its
long-term debt. We also incurred additional deferred financing costs as a result of the issuance of
the 2007 Convertible Notes as more fully described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. This method also requires the
recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that
realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are



expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change
in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

The carrying value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able
to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and
assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Management
evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation
allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event that the Company was to determine that it would be able
to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an
adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of
goodwill in the period such determination was made.

It was previously the Company’s intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of all
its foreign subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, “Accounting
for Income Taxes — Special Areas”. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company
reversed its policy of permanently reinvesting the earnings of its Mexican business. This policy
reversal increased the 2005 tax provision by $9.0 million. For the fiscal year ended September 28,
2007, U.S. income tax was provided on current earnings attributable to our operations in Mexico. No
provision has been made for U.S. federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes that would be
due upon the actual or deemed distribution of undistributed earnings of the other foreign
subsidiaries, which have been, or are, intended to be, permanently reinvested.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the
APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero and the ending APIC pool balance at September 28, 2007
remains zero.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term
debt and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to short-term maturities of these assets
and liabilities. Fair values of long-term debt and short-term investments are based on quoted
market prices at the date of measurement.



SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

On October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS
123(R)”) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based
payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, employee stock
purchases related to the Company’s 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), restricted stock and
other special equity awards based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company’s
previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees” (“APB 25”) for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, “Share Based Payment” (“SAB 107”),
providing interpretative guidance relating to SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions
of SAB 107 in its adoption of

SFAS 123(R).

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires
the application of the accounting standard as of October 1, 2005, the first day of the Company’s
fiscal year 2006.

The Company’s practice in general is to issue shares of common stock upon exercise or settlement of
options and to issue shares in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) from
previously unissued shares.

The fair value of stock-based awards is amortized over the requisite service period, which is
defined as the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for an
award. The Company uses a straight-line attribution method for all grants that include only a
service condition. Due to the existence of a market condition, certain restricted stock grants are
expensed over the service period for each separately vesting tranche.

Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion
of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards
granted on or before, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”) and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards
granted subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As share-based compensation expense recognized in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 is based on
awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R)
requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to retain its method of valuation for share-based
awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes model”) which was also
previously used for the Company’s pro forma information required under SFAS 123. The Company’s
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to;
the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected
employee stock option exercise behaviors.

PENSIONS AND RETIREE MEDICAL BENEFITS

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to twenty Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in Conexant’s
Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care benefits to
members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer pension plans or retiree benefits to its
employees.

The costs and obligations of the Company’s pension and retiree medical plans are calculated using
many assumptions, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments
cease. The most significant assumptions, as presented in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, include discount rate, expected return on plan assets and future trends in health care
costs. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market
conditions at the time of valuation. Actual results may differ



substantially from these assumptions. These differences may significantly impact future pension or
retiree medical expenses.

Annual pension and retiree medical expense is principally the sum of three components: 1) increase
in liability from interest; less 2) expected return on plan assets; and 3) other gains and losses
as described below. The expected return on plan assets is calculated by applying an assumed
long-term rate of return to the fair value of plan assets. In any given year, actual returns can
differ significantly from the expected return. Differences between the actual and expected return
on plan assets are combined with gains or losses resulting from the revaluation of plan
liabilities. Plan liabilities are revalued annually, based on updated assumptions and information
about the individuals covered by the plan. The combined gain or loss is generally expensed evenly
over the remaining years that employees are expected to work.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).” SFAS 158
requires companies to recognize the over-funded and under-funded status of defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans as assets or liabilities on their balance sheets. In addition,
changes in the funded status must be recognized through other comprehensive income in shareholders’
equity in the year in which the changes occur. We adopted SFAS 158 on September 28, 2007. In
accordance with the transition rules in SFAS 158, this standard is being adopted on a prospective
basis. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in an immaterial adjustment to our balance sheet, and had
no impact on our net earnings or cash flows.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

The Company accounts for comprehensive income (loss) in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
130, “Reporting Comprehensive Income” (“SFAS No. 130”). SFAS No. 130 is a financial statement
presentation standard that requires the Company to disclose non-owner changes included in equity
but not included in net income or loss. Accumulated comprehensive loss presented in the financial
statements consists of adjustments to the Company’s minimum pension liability as follows (in
thousands):

Accumulated

Other

Pension

Comprehensive

Adjustments

Loss

Balance as of September 30, 2005

(1,137

)

(1,137

)

Change in period



Balance as of September 29, 2006

$

(599

)

$

(599

)

Pension adjustment



Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158



Balance as of September 28, 2007

$

(214

)

$

(214

)

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

FIN 48

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting and
disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions, as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in
practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting
for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006, and is therefore effective for the Company in fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating
the impact that adopting FIN 48 will have on the Company’s financial position and results of
operations, however at this time the Company does not expect the impact to materially affect its
results from operations or financial position.

SFAS 157

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”) which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim
periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that SFAS 157 will
have on its results from operations or financial position.



SAB 108

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
“Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”), which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006.  The
Company adopted SAB 108 in fiscal year 2007 and its adoption did not materially impact its results
from operations or financial position.

SFAS 159

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”) including an amendment of SFAS No. 115, which permits entities
to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not
currently required to be measured at fair value. SFAS 159 is effective for the Company beginning in
fiscal 2009. The Company is currently evaluating SFAS 159 and the impact that it may have on
results of operations or financial position.

NOTE 3. MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable securities are categorized as available for sale and are summarized as follows as of
September 28, 2007 (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

5,700

$

—

$

—

$

5,700

Total marketable securities

$

5,700

$

—

$

—

$

5,700

Marketable securities are categorized as available for sale and are summarized as follows as of
September 29, 2006 (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

28,150

$

—

$

—

$

28,150

Total marketable securities

$

28,150

$

—

$

—

$

28,150

NOTE 4. INVENTORY

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

September 28,

September 29,



Raw materials

$

6,624

$

9,476

Work-in-process

48,128

52,097

Finished goods

27,357

19,956

$

82,109

$

81,529



NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

September 28,

September 29,



Land

$

9,423

$

9,423

Land and leasehold improvements

4,394

3,990

Buildings

39,730

37,481

Furniture
and Fixtures

24,485

23,101

Machinery and equipment

343,551

304,019

Construction in progress

12,671

22,564

434,254

400,578

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(280,738

)

(250,195

)

$

153,516

$

150,383

NOTE 6. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets are principally the result of the Merger completed on June 25, 2002.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal
quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The Company
completed its annual goodwill impairment test for fiscal 2007 and determined that as of July 1,
2007, its goodwill was not impaired.

Goodwill and intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

Weighted

September 28, 2007

September 29, 2006

Average

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Amortization

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Period (Years)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Goodwill

$

480,890

$

—

$

480,890

$

493,389

$

—

$

493,389

Amortized
intangible assets

Developed
technology


$

10,550

$

(6,399

)

$

4,151

$

10,550

$

(5,525

)

$

5,025

Customer
relationships


12,700

(6,678

)

6,022

12,700

(5,408

)

7,292

Other



(122

)

—


(122

)

—

23,372

(13,199

)

10,173

23,372

(11,055

)

12,317

Unamortized
intangible assets

Trademarks

3,269

—

3,269

3,269

—

3,269

Total intangible
assets

$

26,641

$

(13,199

)

$

13,442

$

26,641

$

(11,055

)

$

15,586

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets is as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Amortization expense

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,165

The changes in the gross carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets are as follows:

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Developed

Customer

Goodwill

Technology

Relationships

Trademarks

Other

Total

Balance as of September 30, 2005

$

493,389

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

520,030

Deductions during year

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance as of September 29, 2006

$

493,389

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

520,030

Deductions during year

(12,499

)

—

—

—

—

(12,499

)

Balance as of September 28, 2007

$

480,890

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

507,531



The reduction to goodwill in fiscal 2007 results from the utilization of deferred tax assets for
which no tax benefit was recognized as of the date of the Merger. The remaining pre-Merger deferred
tax assets that could reduce goodwill in future periods are $18.6 million as of September 28, 2007.

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets is expected to be as follows (in
thousands):






Amortization expense

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

1,597

NOTE 7. BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS

LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,



Junior Notes

$

49,335

$

179,335

2007 Convertible Notes

200,000

—

Long-term debt

$

249,335

$

179,335

Less-current maturities

49,335

—

$

200,000

$

179,335

On March 2, 2007, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible
subordinated notes (“2007 Convertible Notes”). The offering contained two tranches. The first
tranche consists of $100.0 million of 1.25% convertible subordinated notes due March 2010. The
second tranche consists of $100.0 million of 1.50% convertible subordinated notes due March 2012.
The conversion price of the 2007 Convertible Notes is 105.0696 shares per
$1,000 principal amount of notes to be redeemed, which is the equivalent of a conversion price of
approximately $9.52 per share, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the conversion date.
Holders may require the Company to repurchase the 2007 Convertible Notes upon a change in control
of the Company. The Company pays interest in cash semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September
1 of each year. It has been the Company’s historical practice to cash settle the principal and
interest components of convertible debt instruments, and it is our intention to continue to do so
in the future, including settlement of the 2007 Convertible Notes. The fair value of the Company’s
2007 Convertible Notes approximated $230.3 million at September 28,
2007.

Junior Notes represent the Company’s 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due November 15, 2007. These
Junior Notes can be converted into 110.4911 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal balance,
which is the equivalent of a conversion price of approximately $9.05 per share. The Company could
have redeemed the Junior Notes for $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to be redeemed,
plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. Holders required the Company
to repurchase the Junior Notes upon a change in control of the Company. The Company paid interest
in cash semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year. During the fiscal year
ended September 28, 2007, the Company redeemed $130.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the
Junior Notes at a redemption price of $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes plus $2.3 million
in accrued and unpaid interest. The fair value of the Company’s Junior Notes approximated $50.2
million at September 28, 2007. The Company retired the remaining $49.3 million in aggregate
principal amount of the Junior Notes, plus $1.2 million in accrued and
unpaid interest, on the due date of November 15, 2007.

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Year


49,335


—


100,000


—


100,000

$

249,335



SHORT-TERM DEBT

Short-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,



Current maturities of long-term debt

49,335

—

Facility Agreement

50,000

50,000

$

99,335

$

50,000

On July 15, 2003, the Company entered into a receivables purchase agreement under which it has
agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc.
(“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is fully consolidated for accounting
purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing
for a $50.0 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’) secured by the purchased accounts
receivable. As a part of the consolidation, any interest incurred by Skyworks USA related to monies
it borrows under the Facility Agreement is recorded as interest expense in the Company’s results of
operations. The Company performs collections and administrative functions on behalf of Skyworks
USA. Interest related to the Facility Agreement is at LIBOR plus 0.4% which approximated 5.4% at September 28, 2007. As of September 28, 2007,
Skyworks USA had borrowed $50.0 million under this agreement. The Company retired the remaining $49.3 million in aggregate principal
amount of the Junior Notes on the due date of November 15, 2007.

NOTE 8. INCOME TAXES

Income (loss) before income taxes consists of the following components (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




United States

$

54,685

$

(87,169

)

$

23,885

Foreign

2,085

14,395

17,104

$

56,770

$

(72,774

)

$

40,989

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Current tax expense (benefit):

Federal

$

—

$

(52

)

$


State

(461

)

—

(1,032

)

Foreign

1,149


1,178




Deferred tax expense:

Federal

(1,672

)

—

—

State

—

—

—

Foreign


14,992

3,761

(1,568

)

14,992

3,761

Charge in lieu of tax expense

—

—

11,104

Provision for income taxes

$

(880

)

$

15,378

$

15,378

The actual income tax expense is different than that which would have been computed by applying the
federal statutory tax rate to income (loss) before income taxes. A reconciliation of income tax
expense as computed at the United States Federal statutory income tax rate to the provision for
income tax expense follows (in thousands):



Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Tax (benefit) expense at United States statutory rate

$

19,870

$

(25,471

)

$

14,346

Foreign tax rate difference

(301

)

10,391

(1,048

)

Deemed dividend from foreign subsidiary

—

—

8,956

Research and development credits

(7,495

)

(1,500

)

(5,000

)

Release of tax reserve

(461

)

—

(1,032

)

Change in valuation allowance

(14,306

)

31,261

(13,436

)

Charge in lieu of tax expense

—

—

11,104

Foreign withholding tax


—

—

Other, net



1,488

Provision for income taxes

$

(880

)

$

15,378

$

15,378

The charge in lieu of tax expense resulted from partial recognition of certain acquired tax
benefits that were subject to a valuation allowance at the time of acquisition, the realization of
which required a reduction of goodwill.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities consist of the tax effects of temporary differences
related to the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,



Deferred Tax Assets:

Current:

Inventories

$

5,978

$

10,550

Bad debts


13,431

Accrued compensation and benefits

3,364

4,242

Product returns, allowances and warranty

1,037

1,648

Restructuring

1,904

7,845

Current deferred tax assets

12,842

37,716

Less valuation allowance

(10,213

)

(36,070

)

Net current deferred tax assets

2,629

1,646

Long-term:

Property, plant and equipment

10,739

9,859

Intangible assets

11,018

7,439

Retirement benefits and deferred compensation

9,949

5,712

Net operating loss carryforwards

75,884

62,768

Federal tax credits

34,139

23,934

State investment credits

16,268

5,560

Restructuring

—

—

Other – net

1,482

3,733

Long-term deferred tax assets

159,479

119,005

Less valuation allowance

(141,042

)

(118,755

)

Net long-term deferred tax
assets

18,437


Deferred tax assets

172,321

156,721

Less valuation allowance

(151,255

)

(154,825

)

Net deferred tax
assets

21,066

1,896

Deferred Tax Liabilities:

Current:

Prepaid insurance

(716

)

(772

)

Other – net

(1,549

)

(535

)

Current deferred tax liabilities

(2,265

)

(1,307

)

Long-term:

Intangible assets

(3,978

)

—

Long-term deferred tax liabilities

(3,978

)

—

Net deferred tax liabilities

(6,243

)

(1,307

)

Total deferred tax assets

14,823




In accordance with SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”, management has determined that it is
more likely than not that a portion of our historic and current year income tax benefits will not
be realized. As of September 28, 2007, the Company has established a valuation allowance for
deferred tax assets of $151.3 million. The net change in the
valuation allowance of $3.6 million
is principally due to increased net operating losses and federal tax credits that were not tax
benefited, offset by a partial reversal of valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax
assets. When recognized, the tax benefits relating to any future reversal of the valuation
allowance on deferred tax assets at September 28, 2007 will be accounted for as follows:
approximately $128.8 million will be recognized as an income tax benefit, $18.6 million will be
recognized as a reduction to goodwill and $3.9 million will be recognized as an increase to
shareholders’ equity for certain tax deductions from employee stock options.

Based on the Company’s evaluation of the realizability in future years of its deferred tax
assets, $14.2 million of the Company’s valuation allowance was reversed due to the Company’s
projection of future income. The amount reversed consisted of $1.7 million recognized as income
tax benefit, and $12.5 million recognized as a reduction to goodwill.

Deferred tax assets have been recognized for foreign operations when management believes they will
more likely than not be recovered during the carryforward period. The Company does not expect to
recognize any income tax benefits relating to future operating losses generated in the United
States until management determines that such benefits are more likely than not to be realized.

In 2006, the Company reorganized its Mexico operations. As a result, the long term deferred tax
asset relating to the impairment of Mexico assets was written off because the machinery and
equipment was transferred to a United States company. The write-off increased tax expense by $14.6
million net of a deferred tax charge associated with this reorganization. The deferred tax asset
allowable for United States tax purposes is included in the Company’s U.S. deferred tax assets
subject to a valuation allowance as previously discussed.

As of September 28, 2007, the Company has United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $216.7 million, which will expire at various dates
through 2027 and aggregate state
net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $16.6 million, which will expire at various dates
through 2017. The Company also has United States federal and state income tax credit carryforwards
of approximately $57.3 million. The United States federal tax credits expire at various dates
through 2027. The state tax credits relate primarily to California research tax credits which can
be carried forward indefinitely.

No provision has been made for United States federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes
related to approximately $11.0 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have
been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United States federal
income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not permanently
reinvested.

In fiscal 2005 our subsidiary in Mexico issued a dividend of approximately $25.6 million of
earnings to the United States. Such earnings, which were not subject to Mexico withholding tax and
could be applied against United States net operating loss carryforwards, resulted in no significant
United States income tax expense. Earnings of our Mexico subsidiary are no longer considered
permanently reinvested, and accordingly, United States income taxes are provided on current
earnings attributable to our earnings in Mexico.



NOTE 9. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

The Company is authorized to issue (1) 525,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per
share, and (2) 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value.

Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by the
Company’s Board of Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose. Dividends may not be
paid on common stock unless all accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, have been paid or
declared and set aside. In the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the
holders of common stock will be entitled to share pro rata in the assets remaining after payment to
creditors and after payment of the liquidation preference plus any unpaid dividends to holders of
any outstanding preferred stock.

Each holder of the Company’s common stock is entitled to one vote for each such share outstanding
in the holder’s name. No holder of common stock is entitled to cumulate votes in voting for
directors. The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that,
unless otherwise determined by the Company’s Board of Directors, no holder of common stock has any
preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any stock of any class which the Company may issue or
sell.

In March 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 4.3 million of its common shares for $30.1
million as authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company has no publicly disclosed
stock repurchase plans.

At September 28, 2007, the Company had 165,593,541 shares of common stock issued and 161,101,440
shares outstanding.

PREFERRED STOCK

The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits the Company to issue
up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and with rights and preferences
that may be fixed or designated by the Company’s Board of Directors without any further action by
the Company’s stockholders. The designation, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions of the preferred stock of each series will be fixed by the certificate
of designation relating to such series, which will specify the terms of the preferred stock. At
September 28, 2007, the Company had no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding.

EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS

Net income for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 included share-based compensation expense
under SFAS 123(R) of $13.7 million including $7.8 million on employee stock options, $2.5 million
on restricted stock with service and market conditions for vesting, $1.4 million on restricted
stock with service conditions only for vesting, $0.7 million on performance units, and $1.3 million
on the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Net loss for the fiscal year ended September 29,
2006 included share-based
compensation expense under SFAS 123(R) of $14.2 million including $11.2 million on employee stock
options, $0.7 million on restricted stock with service and market conditions, $0.3 million on
restricted stock with service conditions only, $0.3 million on performance units, and $1.7 million
on the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Net income for fiscal year ended September 30, 2005
reflected share-based compensation expense of $26,000 for restricted stock awards issued during the
period. No share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options or ESPP purchases
was recognized prior to October 1, 2005 because the Company had not adopted the recognition
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” (“SFAS 123”).

Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

The Company maintains a domestic and an international employee stock purchase plan. Under these
plans, eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of
compensation. The price per share is the lower of 85% of the market price at the beginning or end
of each offering period (generally six months). The plans provide for purchases by employees of up
to an aggregate of 5.5 million shares through December 31, 2012. Shares of common stock purchased
under these plans in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were 830,103, 835,621,



and 824,211, respectively.
At September 28, 2007, there are 0.9 million shares available for purchase. The Company recognized
compensation expense of $1.3 million and $1.7 million for the fiscal years ended September 28,
2007, and September 29, 2006, respectively. The Company did not recognize any compensation expense
under these plans in fiscal 2005.

Employee Stock Option Plans

The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees and directors may be granted
options to purchase common stock. Options are generally granted with exercise prices at not less
than the fair market value on the grant date, generally vest over 4 years and expire 7 or 10 years
after the grant date. As of September 28, 2007, a total of 69.9 million shares are authorized for
grant under the Company’s share-based compensation plans, which includes 23.2 million shares
authorized in connection with the Merger. There were 27.9 million options outstanding as of the
fiscal year ended September 28, 2007, which included 8.1 million options issued in connection with
the Merger. The number of common shares reserved for granting of future awards to employees and
directors under these plans was 13.8 million at September 28, 2007. The remaining unrecognized
compensation expense on stock options at September 28, 2007 was $17.9 million, and the weighted
average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 2.4 years.

As of
September 28, 2007, the Company had 9 equity compensation plans under which our equity
securities are authorized for issuance to our employees and/or directors:

-

the 1994 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan

-

the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan

-

the Directors’ 1997 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan

-

the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan

-

the Directors’ 2001 Stock Option Plan

-

the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan

-

the 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

-

the Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan and

-

the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

Except for the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option
Plan and the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, each of the foregoing equity compensation
plans was approved by our stockholders.

Restricted
Stock Awards with Service Conditions

The Company’s share-based compensation plans provide for awards of restricted shares of common
stock and other stock-based incentive awards to officers, other employees and certain
non-employees. Restricted stock awards are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates during
the prescribed retention period (generally within four years of the date of award).

The Company granted 38,000, 106,000, and 160,500 restricted shares in the fiscal years ended
September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, respectively, with a four year
graded vesting. The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on restricted stock with service
conditions outstanding at September 28, 2007 was $0.8 million, and the weighted average period over
which the cost is expected to be recognized is 2.9 years.

The Company also granted 20,000 and 446,000 shares of restricted common stock during the fiscal
years ended September 28, 2007, and September 29, 2006, respectively, that will vest over a
three-year period (50% at the end of year 1, and 25% at the end of both year 2 and year 3). As of
September 28, 2007, 50% of the fiscal 2006 grant vested. The remaining unrecognized compensation
expense on restricted stock with service conditions outstanding at September 28, 2007 was $1.1
million. The weighted average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is
approximately 1.7 years.



Restricted Stock Awards with Market Conditions and Service Conditions

The Company granted 606,488 shares of restricted common stock during the fiscal year ended
September 28, 2007 with service and market conditions on vesting. If the restricted stock recipient
meets the service condition but not the market condition in years 1, 2, 3 and 4, then the
restricted stock vests 0% at the end of year 1, 33.3% at the end of year 2, 33.3% at the end of
year 3 and 33.3% at the end of year 4. The market condition allows for accelerated vesting of the
award as of the first, second and if not previously accelerated, the third anniversary of the grant
date. Specifically, if the Company’s stock performance meets or exceeds the 60

th

percentile of its selected peer group for the years ended on each of the first three anniversaries
of the grant date, then 33.3% of the award vests upon each anniversary (up to 100%). The Company
calculated a derived service period of approximately 3.0 years using a Monte-Carlo simulation to
simulate a range of possible future stock prices for the Company and the members of the Company’s
selected peer group.

The Company granted 493,128 shares of restricted common stock with market conditions and service
conditions on vesting during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. The market condition allows
for accelerated vesting of the award as of the first, second, and, if not previously accelerated,
the third anniversary of the grant date. Specifically, if the Company’s stock performance meets or
exceeds the 60

th

percentile of its selected peer group for the years ended on each of
the first three anniversaries of the grant date, then 50% of the award vests upon each anniversary
(up to 100%). If the restricted stock recipient meets the service condition but not the market
condition in years 1, 2 and 3, then the restricted stock vests 50% at the end of year 3 and 50% at
the end of year 4. The Company calculated a derived service period of approximately 2.5 years using
a Monte-Carlo simulation to simulate a range of possible future stock prices for the Company and
the members of the Company’s selected peer group. As of November 8, 2006, the Company’s stock
performance had exceeded the 60

th

percentile of its selected peer group resulting in the
vesting of 50% of the aforementioned shares.

The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on restricted stock with market and service
conditions outstanding at September 28, 2007 was $2.9 million. The weighted average period over
which the cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.5 years.

Performance Units with Milestone-Based Performance Conditions

The Company granted 223,200 and 222,000 performance units with milestone-based performance
conditions to non-executives during the fiscal years ended September 28, 2007 and September 29,
2006, respectively. The performance units will convert to common stock at such time that the
performance conditions are deemed to be achieved. The performance units will be expensed over
implicit performance periods ranging from 11-23 months. The Company will utilize both quantitative
and qualitative criteria to judge whether the milestones are probable of achievement. If the
milestones are deemed to be not probable of achievement, no expense will be recognized until such
time as they become probable of achievement. If
a milestone is initially deemed probable of achievement and subsequent to that date it is deemed to
be not probable of achievement, the Company will discontinue recording expense on the units. If
the milestone is deemed to be improbable of achievement, any expense recorded on those performance
units will be reversed. The fair value of the performance units at the date of grant was $1.5
million for those granted during the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007, and $1.2 million for
those granted during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. We issued 103,688 shares in fiscal
2007 and 49,000 shares in fiscal 2006 as a result of milestone achievement. In addition, certain
other milestones were deemed to be probable of achievement thus, we recorded total compensation
expense of $0.7 million and $0.3 million in the fiscal years ended September 28, 2007 and September
29, 2006, respectively.

Share-Based Compensation Plans for Directors

The Company has three share-based compensation plans for non-employee directors — the 1994
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Directors’ Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and the
Directors’ 2001 Stock Option Plan. Under the three plans, a total of 1.5 million shares have been
authorized for option grants. Under the three plans, a total of 0.1 million shares are available
for new grants as of September 28, 2007. The three plans have substantially similar terms and
conditions, and are structured to provide options to non-employee directors as follows: a new
director receives a total of 45,000 options upon becoming a member of the Board; and continuing
directors receive 15,000 options after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The maximum contractual
term of the director stock options is 10 years. Under these plans, the option price is the fair
market value at the time the option is granted. Beginning in fiscal 2001, all options granted
became exercisable 25% per year beginning one year from the



date of grant. There were 135,000
options granted during the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 under these plans at a weighted
average exercise price of $5.67. At September 28, 2007, a total of 1.0 million options at a
weighted average exercise price of $9.52 per share are outstanding under these three plans, and 0.6
million shares were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $11.25 per share. The
remaining unrecognized compensation expense on director stock options at September 28, 2007 was
$0.9 million. The weighted average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is
approximately 2.5 years. There were 60,000 options exercised under these plans during the fiscal
year ended September 28, 2007. For the fiscal years ended September 29, 2006 and September 30,
2005, there were no options exercised. The above-mentioned activity for the share-based
compensation plans for directors is included in the option tables below.

Distribution and Dilutive Effect of Options

The following table illustrates the grant dilution and exercise dilution:

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(In thousands)




Shares of common stockoutstanding

161,101

161,659

158,625

Granted

3,192

3,869

4,668

Cancelled/forfeited

(4,495

)

(4,176

)

(3,918

)

Expired

—

—

—

Net options granted

(1,303

)

(307

)


Grant dilution (1)

(0.8

%)

(0.2

%)

0.5

%

Exercised

1,707



Exercise dilution (2)

1.1

%

0.2

%

0.6

%

(1)

The percentage for grant dilution is computed based on net options granted as a percentage of
shares of common stock outstanding.

(2)

The percentage for exercise dilution is computed based on options exercised as a percentage of
shares of common stock outstanding.

General Option Information

A summary of stock option transactions follows (shares in thousands):

Options Outstanding

Shares Available

Weighted average

for

exercise price of

Grant

Shares

shares under plan

Balance outstanding at October 1, 2004

5,710

31,763

$

13.63

Granted (1)

(4,908

)

4,668

8.47

Exercised

—

(935

)

5.57

Cancelled/forfeited (2)

2,113

(3,918

)

13.66

Additional shares
reserved

5,500

—

—

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2005

8,415

31,578

$

12.99

Granted (1)

(5,770

)

3,869

5.19

Exercised

—

(393

)

4.44

Cancelled/forfeited (2)

2,386

(4,176

)

12.65

Additional shares
reserved

10,000

—

—

Balance outstanding at September 29, 2006

15,031

30,878

$

12.17

Granted (1)

(4,524

)

3,192

6.78

Exercised

—

(1,707

)

4.84

Cancelled/forfeited (2)

3,247

(4,495

)

12.47

Additional shares
reserved

—

—

—

Balance outstanding at September 28, 2007

13,754

27,868

$

11.96



(1)

“Granted” under “Shares Available for Grant” includes restricted and performance
stock grants for the years ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006 and September 30,
2005 of 0.9 million, 1.2 million, and 0.2 million shares, respectively. Pursuant to the
plan under which they were awarded, these restricted and performance stock grants are
deemed equivalent to the issue of 1.3 million, 1.9 million and 0.2 million stock options,
respectively.

(2)

“Cancelled” under “Shares Available for Grant” do not include any cancellations under
terminated plans. For the years ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006, September
30, 2005, cancellations under terminated plans were 1.6 million, 1.8 million, and 1.8
million, respectively. “Cancelled” under “Shares Available for Grant” are offset by
restricted and performance grants cancellations of 0.2 million for the fiscal year ended
September 28, 2007. Pursuant to the plan under which they were awarded, these
cancellations are deemed equivalent to the cancellation of 0.3 million stock options.

Options exercisable at the end of each fiscal year (shares in thousands):

Weighted average

Shares

exercise price


20,909

$

13.72


23,136

$

14.05


24,053

$

14.68

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and exercisable options
as of September 28, 2007 (shares and aggregate intrinsic value in thousands):

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

average

Weighted

average

Weighted

remaining

average

Aggregate

remaining

average

Aggregate

Range of exercise

Number

contractual

exercise price

Intrinsic

Options

contractual

exercise price

Intrinsic

Prices

outstanding

life (years)

per share

Value

exercisable

life (years)

per share

Value

$0.83 - $5.32

5,087

6.2

$

4.86

$

21,277

2,970

5.4

$

4.74

$

12,773

$5.33 - $8.93

7,008

7.5

$

7.56

10,355

2,319

6.2

$

8.12

2,143

$8.99 - $9.60

5,188

6.1

$

9.31


5,098

6.1

$

9.32


$9.67 - $17.12

5,614

2.4

$

15.06

—

5,551

2.3

$

15.10

—

$17.20 - $39.80

4,806

3.0

$

23.79

—

4,806

3.0

$

23.79

—

$40.13 - $170.44


2.2

$

50.12

—


2.2

$

50.12

—

27,868

5.2

$

11.96

$

31,644

20,909

4.3

$

13.72

$

14,925

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value,
based on the Company’s closing stock price of $9.04 as of September 28, 2007, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The
aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised for the fiscal years ended September 28, 2007,
September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005 were $4.4 million, $0.7 million and $3.4 million,
respectively. The fair value of stock options vested at September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006,
and September 30, 2005 were $58.8 million, $63.2 million, and $61.8 million, respectively. The
total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of September 28, 2007 was 5.5 million.

Restricted Shares and Performance Unit Information

A summary of the share transactions follows (shares in thousands):



Weighted average

Grant-date

Shares

fair value

Balance outstanding at October 1, 2004

—

$

—

Granted


5.20

Vested

(—

)

—

Forfeited

(—

)

—

Balance Outstanding at September 30, 2005


$

5.20

Granted

1,094

5.14

Vested(1)

(89

)

4.94

Forfeited

(12

)

5.14

Balance Outstanding at September 29, 2006

1,154

$

5.17

Granted


6.86

Vested(1)

(616

)

5.51

Forfeited

(86

)

5.41

Balance Outstanding at September 28, 2007

1,220

$

6.04

(1)

Restricted stock and performance units vested at September 28, 2007 were 512,256 shares and
103,688 shares, respectively. Restricted stock and performance units vested at September 29, 2006
were 40,127 shares and 49,000 shares, respectively.

Valuation and Expense Information under SFAS 123(R)

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options,
employee stock purchases, and restricted stock grants under SFAS 123(R) for the fiscal years ended
September 28, 2007, and September 29, 2006 which was allocated as follows:

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

(In thousands)



Cost of sales

1,274

2,174

Research and development

5,590

6,311

Selling, general and administrative

6,873

5,734

Share-based compensation expense included
in operating expenses

$

13,737

$

14,219

As of the fiscal years ended September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006, the Company had capitalized
share-based compensation expense of $0.3 million in inventory. The Company did not recognize any
tax benefit on share-based compensation recorded in the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 or
September 29, 2006 because we have established a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax
assets.

The table below reflects net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted, for the fiscal years ended
September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006 compared with the pro forma information for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2005.

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(In thousands, except per share amounts)




Net income–as reported for prior periods (1)

N/A

N/A

$

25,611

Share-based compensation expense related to employee stock
options, employee stock purchases, and restricted stock grants
(2)

(13,737

)

(14,219

)

(47,183

)

Restricted stock expense as calculated under APB 25

—

—


Restricted stock expense as calculated under FAS 123

—

—

(70

)

Net income (loss), including the effect of share-based
compensation expense (3)

$

57,650

$

(88,152

)

$

(21,563

)

Per share information, basic and diluted:

Net income, as reported for the prior period (1)

N/A

N/A

$

0.16

Net income (loss), including the effect of share-based
compensation expense (3)

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

(0.14

)

(1)

Net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share prior to fiscal 2006 did
not include share-based compensation expense related to employee stock
options and ESPP purchases under SFAS 123 because we did not adopt the
recognition provisions of SFAS 123.



(2)

Share-based compensation expense prior to fiscal 2006 is
calculated based on the pro forma application of SFAS 123
as previously disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Reflected in the 2005 pro forma
stock-based compensation expense is the effect of the
acceleration of the vesting of certain employee stock
options in September 2005 in the amount of $21.0 million.

(3)

Net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share prior to
fiscal 2006 represents pro forma information based on SFAS
123 as previously disclosed in the notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The weighted-average estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options granted during the
fiscal years ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005 were $3.82 per
share, $3.19 per share, and $4.86 per share, respectively, using the Black Scholes option-pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Expected volatility

57.32

%

59.27

%

71.00

%

Risk free interest rate (7 year contractual life options)

4.18

%

4.55

%

3.90

%

Risk free interest rate (10 year contractual life options)

4.30

%

4.55

%

3.90

%

Dividend yield

0.00

0.00

0.00

Expected option life (7 year contractual life options)

4.57

4.42

3.5

Expected option life (10 year contractual life options)

5.86

5.84

3.5

The Company used an arithmetic average of historical volatility and implied volatility to calculate
its expected volatility during the year ended September 28, 2007. Historical volatility was
determined by calculating the mean reversion of the daily-adjusted closing stock price over the
4.25 years between June 25, 2002 (Merger date) and September 29, 2006. The implied volatility
was calculated by analyzing the 52-week minimum and maximum prices of publicly traded call options
on the Company’s common stock. The Company concluded that an arithmetic average of these two
calculations provided for the most reasonable estimate of expected volatility under the guidance of
SFAS 123(R). The Company deemed that volatility of its common stock in 2007 was consistent with historical norms
thus volatility was not recalculated at September 28, 2007.

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury bill interest rates (risk
free) appropriate for the term of the Company’s employee stock options.

The expected life of employee stock options represents a calculation based upon the historical
exercise, cancellation and forfeiture experience for the Company over the 4.25 years between June 25,
2002 (Merger date) and September 29, 2006. The Company deemed that exercise, cancellation and
forfeiture experience in 2007 was consistent with historical norms thus expected life was not
recalculated at September 28, 2007. The Company determined that it had two populations with unique
exercise behavior. These populations included stock options with a contractual life of 7 years and
10 years, respectively.

As share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal years ended September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006 is actually based on awards ultimately
expected to vest, it has been reduced for annualized estimated forfeitures of 12.85% and 8.59%,
respectively. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised,
if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures
were estimated based on historical experience.

For purposes of pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005,
the estimated fair value of the options is assumed to be amortized to expense over the options’
vesting period on a straight-line basis.

STOCK OPTION DISTRIBUTION

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding options as of September
28, 2007 (shares in thousands):



% of total

common

Number

stock

outstanding

outstanding

Stock options held by employees and directors

21,445

13.3

%

Stock options held by non-employees (excluding directors)

6,423

4.0

%

27,868

17.3

%

As of September 28, 2007, the Company’s ratio of options outstanding as a percentage of total
common stock outstanding (“overhang”) was 17.3%. The overhang attributable to options held by
non-employees (other than its non-employee directors) was 4.0% and the overhang attributable to
employees and directors was 13.3%.

As a result of the Merger, as of September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005,
non-employees, excluding directors, held 6.4 million, 7.5 million and 8.6 million options at a
weighted average exercise price of $20.62, $20.44 and $20.46, respectively. In connection with the
Merger, each Conexant option holder, other than holders of options granted to employees of
Conexant’s former Mindspeed Technologies segment on March 30, 2001 and options held by persons in
certain foreign locations, received an option to purchase an equal number of shares of common stock
of the Washington subsidiary. In the Merger, each outstanding Washington option was converted into
an option to purchase Skyworks common stock. As a result, there are a large number of options held
by persons other than Skyworks’ employees and directors.

NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN, PENSIONS AND OTHER RETIREE BENEFITS

The Company maintains a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of its employees. All of the
Company’s employees who are at least 21 years old are eligible to receive discretionary Company
contributions under the 401(k) plan. Discretionary Company contributions are determined by the
Board of Directors and may be in the form of cash or the Company’s stock. The Company has generally
contributed a match of up to 4.0% of an employee’s annual eligible compensation. For those
employees employed by Alpha for five (5) years or more prior to the Merger, the Company contributes
an additional match of up to 0.75% of the employee’s annual eligible compensation. For fiscal
years 2007, 2006, and 2005, the Company contributed and recognized expense for 0.7 million, 0.8
million, and 0.7 million shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock valued at $4.8
million, $4.1 million, and $5.1 million, respectively, to fund the Company’s obligation under the
401(k) plan.

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to approximately twenty Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in
Conexant’s Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care
benefits to members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer defined benefit pension plans
or retiree health benefits to its employees. The Company incurred net periodic benefit costs of
$0.1 million for pension benefits and $0.1 million for retiree medical benefits in each of the
fiscal years ending September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005.

As discussed in Note 2, we adopted SFAS 158 on September 28, 2007, on the required prospective
basis. In accordance with SFAS 158, the funded status as of September 28, 2007, is recorded as a liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The funded status of the Company’s principal defined benefit and retiree medical benefit
plans are as follows (in thousands):

Pension Benefits

Retiree Medical Benefits

Fiscal Years Ended

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 28,

September 29,





Benefit obligation at end of fiscal year

$

3,320

$

3,300

$

1,234

$

1,238

Fair value of plan assets at end of fiscal year

3,105

2,701

—

—

Funded status

$

(215

)

$

(599

)

$

(1,234

)

$

(1,238

)

NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS

The Company has various operating leases primarily for computer equipment and buildings. Rent
expense amounted to $8.5 million, $9.3 million and $9.8 million in fiscal years ended September 28,
2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005, respectively. Purchase options may be exercised,
at fair market value, at various times for some of these leases. Future minimum payments under
these non-cancelable leases are as follows (in thousands):



Fiscal Year


6,862


6,149


5,189


1,849



Thereafter

—

$

20,548

The Company is attempting to sublet certain properties that were vacated upon the exit of the
baseband product area and, if successful, future operating lease commitments will be partially
offset by proceeds received from the subleases.

In addition, the Company has entered into licensing agreements for intellectual property rights and
maintenance and support services. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, the Company is
committed to making aggregate payments of $4.4 million and $1.3 million in fiscal years 2008 and
2009, respectively.

NOTE 12. CONTINGENCIES

From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be,
instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters.

Additionally, the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of
intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future
assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims
or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Intellectual property disputes often
have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations.

From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We
believe that there is no such ordinary course litigation pending that will have, individually or in
the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business.

NOTE 13. GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES

The Company does not currently have any guarantees. The Company generally indemnifies its customers
from third-party intellectual property infringement litigation claims related to its products, and,
on occasion, also provides other indemnities related to product sales. In connection with certain
facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the
facility or the lease.

The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws
of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite.
The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based
upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other
restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of
the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not
recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

NOTE 14. RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

Restructuring and special charges consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Asset impairments

$

—

$

4,197

$

—

Restructuring and special charges

5,730

22,758

—

$

5,730

$

26,955

$

—



2006 RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER

On September 29, 2006, the Company exited its baseband product area in order to focus on its core
business encompassing linear products, power amplifiers, front-end modules and radio solutions. The
Company recorded various charges associated with this action. In total, the Company recorded
charges of $90.4 million which included the following:

The Company recorded $13.1 million related to severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the
write-down of technology licenses and design software, $4.2 million related to the impairment of
certain long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges. These charges total $27.0
million and are recorded in restructuring and special charges.

The Company also recorded charges of $35.1 million in bad debt expense principally for two baseband
product area customers, $23.3 million of excess and obsolete baseband and other inventory charges
and reserves and $5.0 million related to baseband product area revenue adjustments. These charges
were recorded against selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of goods sold and
revenues, respectively.

The Company recorded additional restructuring charges of $4.9 million related to the exit of the
baseband product area during the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007. These charges consist of
$4.5 million relating to the exit of certain operating leases, $0.5 million relating to additional
severance, $1.4 million related to the write-off of technology licenses and design software, offset
by a $1.5 million benefit related to the reversal of a reserve originally recorded to account for
an engineering vendor charge.

Activity and liability balances related to the fiscal 2006 restructuring actions are as follows (in
thousands):

License and

Facility

Software

Workforce

Asset

Closings

Write-offs

Reductions

Impairments

Total

Charged to costs and expenses

$


$

9,583

$

13,070

$

4,197

$

26,955

Non-cash items

—

(6,426

)

—

(4,197

)

(10,623

)

Cash payments

—

—

—

—

—

Restructuring balance, September 29, 2006

$


$

3,157

$

13,070

$

—

$

16,332

Charged to costs and expenses

4,483

(83

)


—

4,930

Reclassification of reserves

(128

)

(508

)


—

—

Non-cash items

—

(419

)

—

—

(419

)

Cash payments

(1,690

)

(1,847

)

(13,242

)

—

(16,779

)

Restructuring balance, September 28, 2007

$

2,770

$


$


$

—

$

4,064

The Company identified approximately $0.5 million of excess license and software write-off reserves
and $0.1 million of excess lease obligation reserves during the year ended September 28, 2007, and
reclassified these reserves to fund additional requirements for workforce reductions.

The Company anticipates that most of the remaining payments associated with the exit of the
baseband product area will be remitted during fiscal years 2008 and 2009.

Pre-Merger Alpha Restructuring Plan

The Company assumed approximately $7.8 million of restructuring reserves from Alpha in connection
with the Merger. During the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007, the Company recorded an
additional $0.8 million charge relating to a single lease obligation that expires in 2008. During
the fiscal years ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, payments
related to the restructuring reserves assumed from Alpha were $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.2
million, respectively. As of September 28, 2007, the restructuring reserve balance related to Alpha
was $1.2 million and primarily relates to estimated future payments on a lease that expires in
2008.



NOTE 15. EARNINGS PER SHARE

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,

(In thousands, except per share amounts)




Net income (loss)

$

57,650

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

Weighted average shares outstanding — basic

159,993

159,408

157,453

Effect of dilutive stock options and restricted stock

1,071

—

1,404

Weighted average shares outstanding — diluted

161,064

159,408

158,857

Net income (loss) per share — basic

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

Effect of dilutive stock options

—

—

—

Net income (loss) per share — diluted

$

0.36

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of stock options
and a stock warrant through its expiration in January 2005 using the treasury stock method, the
Junior Notes on an if-converted basis, and the 2007 Convertible Notes using the treasury stock
method, if their effect is dilutive.

Junior Notes convertible into approximately 5.5 million shares and equity based awards exercisable
for approximately 19.3 million shares were outstanding but not included in the computation of
earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 as their effect would have been
anti-dilutive. If the Company had earned at least $78.8 million in net income for the fiscal year
ended September 28, 2007 the Junior Notes would have been dilutive to earnings per share.

In addition, the Company issued $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible
subordinated notes (“2007 Convertible Notes”) in March 2007. These 2007 Convertible Notes contain
cash settlement provisions, which permit the application of the treasury stock method in
determining potential share dilution of the conversion spread should the share price of the
Company’s common stock exceed $9.52. It has been the Company’s historical practice to cash settle
the principal and interest components of convertible debt instruments, and it is our intention to
continue to do so in the future, including settlement of the 2007 Convertible Notes issued in March
2007. These shares have not been included in the computation of earnings per share for the fiscal
year ended September 28, 2007 as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. The maximum potential
dilution from the settlement of the 2007 Convertible Notes would be approximately 21.0 million
shares.

Junior Notes convertible into approximately 19.8 million shares and equity based awards exercisable
for approximately 23.7 million shares were outstanding but not included in the computation of
earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 as their effect would have been
anti-dilutive. If the Company had earned at least $93.9 million in net income for the fiscal year
ended September 29, 2006 the Junior Notes would have been dilutive to earnings per share.

Junior Notes convertible into approximately 25.4 million shares and equity based awards exercisable
for approximately 25.5 million shares were outstanding but not included in the computation of
earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 as their effect would have been
anti-dilutive. If the Company had earned at least $77.6 million in net income for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 2005 the Junior Notes would have been dilutive to earnings per share.

NOTE 16. SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CONCENTRATIONS

The Company follows SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information” (“SFAS No. 131”). SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way public business
enterprises report information about operating segments in annual financial statements and in
interim reports to shareholders. The method for determining what information to report is based on
the way that management organizes the segments within the Company for making operating decisions
and assessing financial performance. In evaluating financial performance, management uses sales and
operating profit as the measure of the segments’ profit or loss. Based on the guidance in



SFAS No. 131, the Company has one operating segment for financial reporting purposes, which
designs, develops, manufactures and markets proprietary semiconductor products, including
intellectual property, for manufacturers of wireless communication products.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

Net revenues by geographic area are presented based upon the country of destination. Net revenues
by geographic area are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




United States

$

66,868

$

43,180

$

66,429

Other Americas

11,230

18,925

39,541

Total Americas

78,098

62,105

105,970

China

293,035

224,539

215,082

South Korea

128,253

114,926

107,225

Taiwan

101,107

116,073

92,171

Other Asia-Pacific

98,200

173,523

144,940

Total Asia-Pacific

620,595

629,061

559,418

Europe, Middle East and Africa

43,051

82,584

126,983

$

741,744

$

773,750

$

792,371

The Company’s revenues by geography do not necessarily correlate to end handset demand by region.
For example, if the Company sells a power amplifier module to a customer in South Korea, the sale
is recorded within the South Korea account although that customer, in turn, may integrate that
module into a product sold to a service provider (its customer) in Africa, China, Europe, the
Middle East, the Americas or within South Korea.

The increase in net revenues derived from China in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 is
principally due to the implementation of a global Sony Ericsson Mobile Comm. AB hub in Hong Kong
in 2007 (one of our top OEM customers).

The decrease in net revenues derived from Other Asia-Pacific in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal
2006 is due to weakness at one of our top OEM customers and the transitioning of the aforementioned
Sony Ericsson Mobile Comm. AB revenues to the Hong Kong hub from Other Asia-Pacific locations.

The decrease in net revenues derived from Europe, Middle East and Africa over the three year period
ended September 28, 2007, is principally due to the weakness in and eventual exit of the Company’s
baseband product area.

The increase in net revenues derived from Other Asia-Pacific in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
2005 is due to the continued consolidation of the purchasing and manufacturing functions of several
of the Company’s significant customers to Singapore and Malaysia from European and American
locations.

Geographic property, plant and equipment balances, including property held for sale, are based on
the physical locations within the indicated geographic areas and are as follows (in thousands):

As of

September 28,

September 29,



United States

$

97,097

$

88,896

Mexico

54,324

59,234

Other

2,095

2,253

$

153,516

$

150,383



CONCENTRATIONS

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist
principally of trade accounts receivable. Trade receivables are primarily derived from sales to
manufacturers of communications and consumer products. Ongoing credit evaluations of customers’
financial condition are performed and collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees,
are required whenever deemed necessary. As of September 28, 2007, Motorola, Inc. and Sony Ericsson
Mobile Comm. AB accounted for approximately 21% and 14%, respectively, of the Company’s gross
accounts receivable.

As of September 29, 2006, Motorola, Inc. and RTI Industries Co. Ltd. accounted for approximately
18% and 13%, respectively, of the Company’s gross accounts receivable.

The following customers accounted for 10% or more of net revenues:

Fiscal Years Ended

September 28,

September 29,

September 30,




Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB


%


%


%

Motorola, Inc.


%


%


%

Asian
Information Technology, Inc.


%


%

*

Samsung
Electronics Co.


%

*

*

*

Customers accounted for less than 10% of net revenues.

NOTE 17. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(In thousands, except per share data)

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Year

Fiscal 2007(2)

Net revenues

$

196,030

$

180,210

$

175,050

$

190,454

$

741,744

Gross profit

75,316

68,702

68,632

74,735

287,385

Net income

12,037

12,197

11,423

21,993

57,650

Per share data (1)

Net income, basic

0.07

0.08

0.07

0.14

0.36

Net income, diluted

0.07

0.08

0.07

0.14

0.36

Fiscal 2006(2)

Net revenues

$

198,325

$

185,234

$

197,058

$

193,133

$

773,750

Gross profit

74,723

69,350

73,347

45,259

262,679

Net income(loss)

4,287


3,005

(96,370

)

(88,152

)

Per share data (1)

Net income(loss), basic

0.03

0.01

0.02

(0.60

)

(0.55

)

Net income(loss), diluted

0.03

0.01

0.02

(0.60

)

(0.55

)

(1)

Earnings per share calculations for each of the quarters are based on the weighted average
number of shares outstanding and included common stock equivalents in each period. Therefore,
the sums of the quarters do not necessarily equal the full year earnings per share.

(2)

During the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, the Company recorded charges of $90.4
million which included $35.1 million in bad debt expense, $23.3 million of inventory charges
and reserves, $13.1 million related to severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the
write-down of technology licenses and design software, $5.0 million related to revenue
adjustments, $4.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and $2.3
million related to other charges. During the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007, the
Company recorded charges of $5.7 million which included $4.5 million relating to the exit of
certain operating leases, $0.5 million relating to additional severance, $1.4 million related
to the write-off of technology licenses and design software, offset by a $1.5 million credit
related to the reversal of a reserve originally recorded to account for an engineering vendor
charge associated with the exit of the baseband product area, and an additional $0.8 million
charge for a single lease obligation that expires in 2008 relating to our 2002 restructuring.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Skyworks’ management, with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, evaluated the effectiveness of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 28, 2007. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management
necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures. Based on the evaluation of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 28, 2007, Skyworks’ chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that,
as of such date, Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable
assurance level.

Management’s report on Skyworks’ internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) is included below in this Item 9A. of this Form
10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

No change in Skyworks’ internal control over financial reporting occurred during the fiscal quarter
ended September 28, 2007 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;



•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 28, 2007. In making this assessment, the Company’s management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.

Based on their assessment, management concluded that, as of September 28, 2007, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This report
appears on page 48.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.

None.



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information under the captions “Directors and Executive Officers”,
“Corporate Governance — Committees of the Board of Directors” and “Other — Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors,
officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. We make
available our code of business conduct and ethics free of charge through our website, which is
located at www.skyworksinc.com. We intend to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our code
of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the
SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market by filing such amendment or waiver with the SEC and by
posting it on our website.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information under the caption “Information About
Executive and Director Compensation” in our
definitive proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED

STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The information under the captions “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”
and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our definitive proxy statement for the 2008 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance — Director
Independence” in our definitive proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information under the caption “Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement for the 2008
Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)

The following are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

1. Index to Financial Statements

Page number in this report

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 48

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 28, 2007,
September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005

Page 49

Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006

Page 50

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended September 28, 2007,
September 29, 2006, and September 30, 2005

Page 51

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
for the Years Ended September 28, 2007, September 29, 2006, and September 30,

Page 52

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 53 through 77

2. The schedule listed below is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:

Page number in this report

Schedule II-Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts

Page 84

All other required schedule information is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements or is omitted because it is either not required or not applicable.

3.

The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the Exhibits are filed as a
part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b) Exhibits

The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are filed herewith and incorporated by
reference herein. The response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted under Item 15 (a) (3).



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Date:

November 27, 2007

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

Registrant

By: /s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

David J. Aldrich

Chief Executive Officer

President

Director



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on
November 27, 2007.

Signature and Title

Signature and Title

/s/ DWIGHT W. DECKER

Dwight W. Decker

Kevin L. Beebe

Chairman of the Board

Director

/s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

/s/ MOIZ M. BEGUWALA

David J. Aldrich

Moiz M. Beguwala

Chief Executive Officer

Director

President and Director (principal

executive officer)

/s/ DONALD W. PALETTE

/s/ TIMOTHY R. FUREY

Donald W. Palette

Timothy R. Furey

Chief Financial Officer

Director

Vice President (principal accounting and

financial officer)

/s/ BALAKRISHNAN S. IYER

Balakrishnan S. Iyer

Director

Thomas C. Leonard

Director

/s/ DAVID P. MCGLADE

David P. McGlade

Director

/s/ DAVID J. MCLACHLAN

David J. McLachlan

Director

/s/ ROBERT A. SCHRIESHEIM

Robert A. Schriesheim

Director



SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In thousands)

Charged to

Beginning

Cost and

Ending

Description

Balance

Expenses

Deductions

Misc.

Balance

Year Ended September 30, 2005

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,987

$

5,127

$

(1,299

)

$

—

$

5,815

Reserve for sales returns

$

4,909

$

4,986

$

(6,884

)

$


$

3,059

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

13,735

$

11,482

$

(13,238

)

$

—

$

11,979

Year Ended September 29, 2006

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

5,815

$

35,959

$

(4,752

)

$

—

$

37,022

Reserve for sales returns

$

3,059

$

4,867

$

(3,803

)

$

(19

)

$

4,104

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

11,979

$

23,154

$

(7,428

)

$

—

$

27,705

Year Ended September 28, 2007

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

37,022

$

2,623

$

(37,983

)

$

—

$

1,662

Reserve for sales returns

$

4,104

$

2,271

$

(3,893

)

$

—

$

2,482

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

27,705

$

8,641

$

(20,189

)

$

—

$

16,157



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

3.A

Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation

10-K

001-5560

3.A

12/23/2002

3.B

Second Amended and Restated By-laws

10-K

001-5560

3.B

12/23/2002

4.A

Specimen Certificate of Common Stock

S-3

333-92394


7/15/2002

4.B

Form of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Note of
the Company

10-K

001-5560

4.D

12/23/2002

4.C

Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2002, by
and between the Company and Wachovia Bank, N.A.
(as Trustee)

10-K

001-5560

4.E

12/23/2002

4.D

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of
January 15, 2003 between Skyworks Solutions,
Inc. and Wachovia Bank, N.A. (as Trustee)

S-3

333-102157

4.03

1/16/2003

4.E

Indenture
dated as of March 2, 2007 between the Registrant and
U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee

8-K

001-5560

4.E

3/5/2007

10.A*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Long-Term
Compensation Plan dated September 24, 1990;
amended March 28, 1991; and as further amended
October 27, 1994

10-K

001-5560

10.B

12/14/2005

10.B*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1994 Non-Qualified
Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors

10-K

001-5560

10.C

12/14/2005



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.C*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Executive Compensation
Plan dated January 1, 1995 and Trust for the
Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Executive Compensation
Plan dated January 3, 1995

10-K

001-5560

10.D

12/14/2005

10.D*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1997 Non-Qualified
Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors

10-K

001-5560

10.E

12/14/2005

10.E*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1996 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.F

12/13/2006

10.F*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1999 Employee
Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.L

12/23/2002

10.G*

Washington Sub Inc., 2002 Stock Option Plan

S-3

333-92394

99.A

7/15/2002

10.H*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Non-Qualified Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.N

12/23/2002

10.I

Form of Shareholders Agreement, dated as of
December 16, 2001, entered into between each of
the directors and certain executive officers of
the Company as of the date thereof and Conexant
Systems, Inc.

S-4

333-83768


5/10/2002

10.J

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
November 12, 2002, by and among the Company and
Credit Suisse First Boston (as representative
for the several purchasers)

10-K

001-5560

10.AA

12/23/2002

10.K*

Skyworks
Solutions, Inc. 2002 Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as
amended 1/31/2006)

10-Q

001-5560

10.CC

2/07/2007

10.L

Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of July
15, 2003, by and between Skyworks USA, Inc. and
Wachovia Bank, N.A.

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

8/11/2003

10.M

Servicing Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2003,
by and between the Company and Skyworks USA,
Inc.

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

8/11/2003

10.N

Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of
July 15, 2003, by and between Skyworks USA,
Inc. and the Company

10-Q

001-5560

10.C

8/11/2003

10.O

Terms Agreement, dated as of September 9, 2003,
by and among the Company and Credit Suisse
First Boston

8-K

001-5560

1.1

9/10/2003

10.P*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option for the
Company’s 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/17/2004

10.Q*

Fiscal 2007 Executive Incentive Compensation
Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.R

12/13/2006

10.R*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (as amended 1/31/2006)

10-Q

001-5560

10.1

2/07/2007

10.S*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Directors’ 2001 Stock
Option Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.2

5/04/2005



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.T*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option for the
Company’s 2001 Directors Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.3

5/04/2005

10.U*

Form of Notice of Stock Option Agreement under
the Company’s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

5/11/2005

10.V*

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Agreement
under the Company’s 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

5/11/2005

10.W*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the Company and
David J. Aldrich

8-K

001-5560

10.1

5/31/2005

10.X*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Liam K. Griffin

8-K

001-5560

10.2

5/31/2005

10.Y*

Amended and Restated Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Allan M. Kline

X

10.AA*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and George M. LeVan

8-K

001-5560

10.4

5/31/2005

10.BB*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Gregory L. Waters

8-K

001-5560

10.5

5/31/2005

10.CC*

Amended and Restated Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Kevin D. Barber

10-K

001-5560

10.FF

12/13/2006

10.DD*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Mark V. B. Tremallo

8-K

001-5560

10.7

5/31/2005

10.EE*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Restricted Stock
Agreement Granted Under 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/15/2005

10.FF*

Fiscal Year 2007 Executive Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.FF

8/8/2007

10.GG*

Skyworks Solutions In. Cash Compensation Plan
for Directors

10-Q

001-5560

10.GG

8/8/2007

10.HH

Registration
Rights Agreement dated March 2, 2007 between the Registrant and
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.

8-K

001-5560

10.HH

3/5/2007



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.II*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Donald W. Palette

X


Statement regarding calculation of per share
earnings [see Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements]

X


Computation of
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

X


Subsidiaries of the Company

X

23.1

Consent of KPMG LLP

X

31.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act
Rules 13a- 14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

X

31.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002

X

32.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

32.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

88