
10-K405
ALPHA INDUSTRIES




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K




   /X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended April 2, 1995

                                      OR

   / /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from _____________ to _____________   

Commission file number 1-5560

                             ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    DELAWARE                            04-2302115
        (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

        20 SYLVAN ROAD, WOBURN, MASSACHUSETTS             01801
        (Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (617) 935-5150

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             Name of each exchange on        
             Title of each class                 which registered    
             -------------------             -------------------------
        COMMON STOCK, $.25 PAR VALUE           AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE
        RIGHTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK        AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

        Yes   X     No         
             ---        ---
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/

     The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant at May 31, 1995 was approximately $98,514,000.

     The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at May 31, 1995 was
7,750,101.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement, to be filed within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Report.



ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1      BUSINESS

PRODUCTS

The Company's principal products are Monolithic and Discrete Semiconductor 
Devices and Components and Ceramic Devices and Components. See table below:

CORE PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES





The principal customers for these products are equipment manufacturers for
commercial and defense microwave systems such as cellular telephones, 
commercial telecommunications, direct broadcast satellites, automotive 
collision avoidance applications and military radar, missile, and electronic 
warfare.

The Company's operations are within a single segment of the electronics
industry: the development, production and sale of microwave materials, devices
and components.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION

During fiscal 1995, approximately 71% of the Company's sales were to
manufacturers of commercial products, primarily in the wireless communications
markets and include components for products such as wireless telephones and base
stations in addition to motion detectors and sensors.  The remaining 29% of
sales were for use in a wide variety of defense-related systems.

Export sales to non-affiliates for fiscal years ended 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 
$16,855,000, $16,471,000, and $13,229,000, respectively. This compares with 
domestic sales for the same period of $54,974,000, $47,337,000, and 
$50,934,000, respectively. The Company operates sales subsidiaries in the 
United Kingdom and Germany, and  a ceramic manufacturing operation in France.  
See Note 3 to the Financial Statements on page 17 for financial information 
about the Company's foreign and domestic operations.

The Company currently has approximately 1,300 customers in 30 countries. Its 
sales are made through 17 independent domestic sales representatives and 21 
independent international sales representatives, as well as through its own 
sales force of 26 persons. Approximately 17% of the Company's sales are made 
through its own direct sales force and 83% through sales representatives.  


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Research and development efforts are undertaken by the Company both on a 
Company or customer sponsored basis.  For customer sponsored projects, the 
customer may pay all or a portion of the expenses incurred.  Some of the 
customer sponsored contracts are contracts which are reimbursed by the 
U.S. Government. The Company's products and markets are subject to 
continued technological advances.  Recognizing this, the Company has maintained 
a high level of R&D activities to remain competitive in certain areas and to be 
an industry leader in other areas.

R&D expenditures for the last three fiscal years are detailed below (in
thousands):




* Non-reimbursed costs incurred by the Company on customer sponsored contracts.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for the Company's products and manufacturing processes are
generally available from several sources.  It is the Company's policy not to
depend on a sole source of supply.

WORKING CAPITAL

The business of the Company is not seasonal, and there are no special practices 
with respect to working capital for the Company or the industry in general. The
Company provides a limited warranty on its products against defects in material
and workmanship. Payment terms are 30 days in the domestic market and generally
60 days in foreign markets.

CONTRACTS

During fiscal 1995, no one customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's 
total sales.   All of the Company's sales to the United States Government and 
prime contractors and subcontractors thereof are subject




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

to termination at the convenience of the Government, in which event the Company
would normally be reimbursed for costs incurred.  While U.S. Government orders
are canceled in this manner, Alpha has seldom experienced any material
terminations for convenience.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

All of the Company's products are subject to substantial competition. The
principal competitive factors affecting the Company's business are product
performance, price, applications support and adherence to delivery schedules.
The Company faces competition from divisions of larger, more diversified
organizations in the electronics industry with substantially greater assets and
access to larger financial resources, as well as from many smaller specialized
companies. Some of Alpha's customers could elect to develop and manufacture
internally the products they purchase from Alpha.

PATENT AND TRADEMARKS

Alpha owns a small number of patents and has other patent applications under 
preparation or pending. However, the Company believes that its technological 
position depends primarily on the ability to develop new innovative products 
through the technical competence of its engineering personnel.

BACKLOG

The Company's backlog of undelivered orders on April 2, 1995 was approximately 
$30,200,000 compared with $23,500,000 on April 3, 1994. The Company's policy is
to record commercial orders on a quarterly basis consistent with expected
customer short-term requirements. Management believes all orders in the
Company's backlog to be firm. Approximately 90% of the April 2, 1995 backlog is
anticipated to be shipped in fiscal year 1996.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

In the Company's opinion, compliance with federal, state, and local
environmental protection regulations does not and will not have a material
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of the
Company.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the 
executive officers of the Company at May 31, 1995.



All officers serve until the next Board of Directors meeting following the 
Annual Stockholders Meeting scheduled for September 11, 1995, or until their 
successors are elected and qualified. No officer was elected pursuant to any 
arrangement or understanding.

Since the founding of the Company in 1962 through 1978, George S. Kariotis was
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and, from January 1974 to
September 1978, he was Treasurer of the Company. From




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

January 1979 to January 1983, Mr. Kariotis was the Secretary of Manpower
Development and Economic Affairs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He was
re-elected Chairman of the Board in January 1983 and Chief Executive Officer in
May 1985. Mr. Kariotis resigned as Chief Executive Officer on July 24, 1986
while he campaigned for public office. He resumed his position as Chief
Executive Officer as of November 5, 1986 until May 15, 1991.

Martin J. Reid joined the Company in 1969 as an engineering group leader. In 
1971 he became Division Manager of the Solid State Division.  Mr. Reid was 
appointed to the office of Vice President of the Company in 1975, became Senior 
Vice President in 1981, was elected President and Chief Operating Officer in May
1985 and became a director in September 1985.  Mr. Reid was acting Chief
Executive Officer from July 1986 to November 1986. He was elected Chief
Executive Officer May 15, 1991.

David J. Aldrich joined the Company in 1995 as Vice President, Chief Financial 
Officer and Treasurer.  Mr. Aldrich has held several positions at M/A-COM, Inc.
beginning in 1989 until January, 1995 including Manager Integrated Circuits
Active Products, Corporate Vice President Strategic Planning, Director of
Finance and Administration, Director of Strategic Initiatives with the
Microelectronics Division. Prior to joining M/A-COM, Inc. in 1989 Mr. Aldrich
was Controller with Adams Russell Electronics Company and a project leader for a
NASA satellite communications program with Space Communications Company (a
Fairchild Industries and Contel Inc. Partnership).

Robert E. Goldwasser was elected a Vice President in 1983 and Senior Vice 
President in 1989.  Dr. Goldwasser served from 1982 to 1989 as President of 
Central Microwave Company, then a subsidiary of the Company. Prior to 1982, he
was Vice President of Engineering for Central Microwave Company and a professor
at Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.  Other senior technical staff 
assignments held by Dr. Goldwasser included positions with Varian Associates, 
M/A-COM, Inc. and Monsanto Corporation.

P. Daniel Gallagher joined the Company in March, 1989 as Director of Device 
Operations of Alpha's Devices Group and was elected Vice President September 10,
1990. Previously he held a series of engineering and marketing positions at
M/A-COM, Inc. beginning with his initial assignment as a semiconductor engineer
in 1968. He was appointed a Vice President of M/A-COM, Inc., in 1980 and in his
last assignment he was the Vice President-General Manager of the M/A-COM, Inc.
Lowell Semiconductor Operation. Mr. Gallagher began his career in 1966 with ITT
UK as a semiconductor process engineer.

Thomas C. Leonard joined the Company in January, 1992 as General Manager of the
Components and Systems Division.  He became the General Manager of Operations
for the Alpha Microwave Division effective January, 1994 and was elected a Vice
President July 14, 1994.  Mr. Leonard has over 30 years experience in the
microwave industry having held a series of general managerial and marketing
positions at M/A-COM, Inc., from 1972 to 1992 and prior to 1972 at Varian
Associates and Sylvania.

Joseph J. Alberici joined Trans-Tech, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, in 1987
and has held several positions with Trans-Tech, Inc., including Vice President
of Marketing and New Products, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating 
Officer. He has been President of Trans-Tech, Inc. since 1992 and was elected 
Vice President of the Company April 28, 1994. Prior to 1987, Mr. Alberici was 
Plant Manager of the Microwave Products Division for MuRata Erie NA. In
addition, Mr. Alberici held several engineering positions with Lambda
Electronics and American Technical Ceramics.

Paul E. Vincent has held his position as Controller since he joined the Company 
in 1979.

EMPLOYEES

As of April 2, 1995, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 830
persons, compared with 750 as of April 3, 1994.

ITEM 2      PROPERTIES

The following information describes the major facilities owned and leased by the
Company. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994, the Company decided to
consolidate its semiconductor and component businesses at




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

one facility in Woburn, Massachusetts and to sell its Methuen facility. The
Company believes it has adequate productive capacity in the Woburn facility to
meet the semiconductor and component business needs for the next 12 to 18
months. However with increasing demand for its ceramics products manufactured
primarily at its Trans-Tech facility in Adamstown, Maryland, additional
productive capacity for these products may be required within the next 12 to 18
months.  As described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on
pages 18 through 20 several properties secure debt of the Company.

     a.  The Company owns a modern 158,000 square foot plant plus eight acres of
         land at 20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts. As a result of the
         consolidation, this plant is occupied by the semiconductor and
         component manufacturing operations and corporate headquarters.  In
         addition, all semiconductor and component development activities are
         conducted at this facility.

     b.  The Company owns a 92,000 square foot facility in Adamstown, Maryland.
         This plant is occupied by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary,
         Trans-Tech, Inc.

     c.  The Company leases a 7,200 square foot facility in Marly, France.  This
         plant is occupied by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Trans-Tech
         Europe SARL.

     d.  The Company leases an 8,700 square foot facility in Frederick, Maryland
         until May 31, 1995.  Due to increased demand for ceramic filters the
         Company began leasing a 21,000 square foot facility in Frederick,
         Maryland in November 1994.  These plants are used by the Company's
         wholly owned subsidiary, Trans-Tech, Inc. to manufacture ceramic
         filters.

     e.  The Company leases a 3,600 square foot facility in Milpitas,
         California. This facility is occupied by Western Trans-Tech, a division
         of Trans-Tech, Inc.

     f.  The Company owns an 85,000 square foot facility on 17 acres of land in
         Methuen, Massachusetts. Formerly occupied by the Components Division,
         this property is being held for resale.


ITEM 3      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company does not have any material pending legal proceedings other than 
routine litigation incidental to its business.

The Company has been notified by federal and state environmental agencies of its
potential liability with respect to the following two sites: the Spectron, Inc.
Superfund site in Elkton, Maryland;  and the Seaboard Chemical Corporation site
in Jamestown, North Carolina. In each case several hundred other companies have
also been notified about their potential liability regarding these sites. The
Company continues to deny that it has any responsibility with respect to these
sites other than as a de minimis party. Management is of the opinion that the
outcome of the aforementioned environmental matters will not have a material
effect on the Company's operations.

See also Note 11 to the Financial Statements on page 26.


ITEM 4      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fiscal 
quarter ended April 2, 1995.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5      MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
            MATTERS

See the section entitled "Quarterly Financial Data" appearing on page 15 for 
information regarding Common Stock market prices.  Dividends have not been paid
in either of the past two fiscal years. See Note 5 of the "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" appearing on pages 18 through 20 for information 
regarding dividend restrictions.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


ITEM 6      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
(In thousands, except per share amounts and financial ratios)






ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

ITEM 7      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company continues to gain strength in its target wireless communication 
markets as evidenced by  fiscal 1995 increases in sales, net income and orders. 
Two multi-million dollar wireless component orders for gallium arsenide
monolithic semiconductors and ceramic filters were announced during fiscal
1995.  These orders are with two of the major cellular Original Equipment
Manufacturers. The ceramic filters contract represents the first major volume 
production contract in our ceramics component filter business, leveraging our 
core ceramic capabilities in our target wireless markets.  Fiscal 1995 saw 
creation of the Alpha Microwave Group resulting from the consolidation of the 
semiconductor and component businesses at one facility in Woburn,
Massachusetts. The consolidation took place at the end of fiscal 1994. Both     
Alpha Microwave and, Trans Tech, Inc., our ceramics product subsidiary,
continue to be successful in penetrating the wireless communication markets. 
Other announcements during the year included the Alpha Microwave Group  
receiving certification under the ISO 9001 Quality System Standard, achieving a
global standard of excellence that demonstrates the Company's commitment to our
customers with a focus of manufacturing excellence and product quality.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Sales for fiscal 1995 totaled $78.3 million compared with fiscal 1994 sales of
$70.1 million and fiscal 1993 sales of $69.5 million.  Increased shipments for
fiscal 1995 and 1994 resulted primarily from wireless communication products
such as  (a) Gallium Arsenide Monolithic Integrated Circuits and components 
(GaAs MMICs), (b) ceramic products for cellular telephones and base stations, 
(c) discrete semiconductors for wireless products and (d) dielectric filters. As
the Company gains strength in the commercial wireless communication markets,
direct sales to the United States Defense Department continue to decline, with 
29% of fiscal 1995 sales related to military subcontracts for ultimate sale to
the Defense Department or foreign governments, compared with 40% in fiscal 1994
and 49% in fiscal 1993.  The decrease in defense related business is
attributable to the decline in  SADARM and  Longbow program activity.  Even
though programs for traditional military products decline, the Company is still
interested in developmental military programs that will help enhance technology
for wireless applications, and whenever possible the Company will actively
pursue such developmental contracts as a means of developing new products.

Foreign sales increased in fiscal 1995 to $23.3 million versus $22.8 million in
fiscal 1994 and $18.6 million in fiscal 1993.  The increase in foreign sales for
fiscal 1995 was primarily due to increased shipments for ceramic products for
cellular telephones and base stations.  Fiscal 1994 increase in foreign sales
was due to (a)dielectric resonator filters, (b) radar detector components and
(c) components for  cellular telephone systems.  Domestic sales were $55.0
million for fiscal 1995 versus $47.3 million for fiscal 1994 and $50.9 million
for fiscal 1993.  The fiscal 1995 increase in domestic sales is a result of
increased shipments of ceramic components and semiconductors used in wireless
communication products, whereas the decrease in domestic sales for fiscal 1994
is due to substantial reduction in military program funding.

New orders for fiscal 1995 were $84.9 million, an increase of 27% over
the same period last year.  These new orders were dominated by commercial
wireless contracts and included only a small portion of the two large wireless 
component orders noted above.  Initial deliveries for the Motorola ceramic 
filter order have been shipped and accepted; however there have been some
initial delays in production due to the Company's capacity expansion and
facility move regarding Trans Tech, Inc. leasing an additional 21,000 square
foot manufacturing facility for ceramic filters.  Consequently, Motorola has 
deferred a portion of the early production deliveries in order to allow for the
production ramp later in the fiscal year.  The Company has met the technical 
specifications on the initial deliveries and expects to establish volume
production schedules during fiscal 1996.

Backlog at the end of fiscal 1995 was $30.2 million compared with $23.5 million 
in fiscal 1994 and $26.9 million in fiscal 1993.  The $6.7 million increase in
fiscal 1995 backlog is the result of increased orders for wireless communication
products, whereas the $3.4 million decrease in fiscal 1994 was attributable to
the cancellation of orders related to discontinued product lines and military
programs.

Gross profit as a percent of sales increased to 30.5% in fiscal 1995 compared 
with 21.0% in fiscal 1994 and 24.6% in fiscal 1993.  The increase in gross 
profit is the result of (a) increased sales volumes coupled with fixed costs 




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


remaining constant (b) greater efficiencies and reduced costs due to the
consolidation of facilities that took place in fiscal 1994 when the Company
moved several product lines to its Woburn, Massachusetts plant.  The decrease in
gross profit for fiscal 1994 was the result of steadily deteriorating margins
attributable primarily to the costs of maintaining dedicated resources in the
semiconductor and component businesses for certain military programs while
revenues for these same programs declined. The facility consolidation during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1994 also further decreased gross profits because of
business interruptions and reengineering costs.  Lastly, the inventory
liquidations driven by reduced manufacturing cycles increased costs, resulting
in lower gross profit.

Research and development expenses increased  $725 thousand for fiscal 1995 and
$514 thousand for fiscal 1994.  Customer sponsored R&D continued to decrease
$1.9 million  in fiscal 1995 and $1.5 million in fiscal 1994, particularly 
customer funded programs such as SADARM and Longbow.  As customer  sponsored R&D
continues to decrease, the Company sponsored R&D will continue to increase,
since the Company is strongly committed to developing new wireless 
communication  products. However, whenever  possible the Company will try to 
fund its R&D through collaborative developmental contracts.

Selling and administrative expenses decreased $554 thousand, mainly as a result 
of a 20% reduction in administrative personnel completed during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1994. For fiscal 1994 and 1993, selling and administrative
expenses remained constant.

Interest expense decreased $40 thousand since certain deferred finance costs 
associated with the Methuen facility were charged to the repositioning cost in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994.  Fiscal 1994 interest expense decreased $112
thousand  because fiscal 1993 included a settlement of prior tax issues that
included an interest charge.

Net income for fiscal 1995 was $2.8 million or $0.36 per share, compared to a
net loss of $11.5 million or $1.53 per share.  The fourth quarter of fiscal 1994
included a repositioning charge of $5.6 million.

FINANCIAL POSITION

At April  2, 1995, working capital totaled $11.0 million and included $3.5 
million in cash and cash equivalents, compared with $9.0 million of working 
capital  at the end of fiscal 1994.  Cash increased $1.8 million during fiscal 
1995 mainly as a result of proceeds from the Company's line of credit and a 
Community Development Block Grant from the state of  Maryland.  During fiscal 
1995, the Company  purchased $5.2 million of equipment for semiconductor and 
microwave ceramic manufacturing operations as well as various information
technology equipment. With increase demand for wireless products, the Company
expects to increase its need for equipment and capacity.  During fiscal 1995,
the Company obtained a $3.0 million operating lease line and received proceeds
of $234 thousand from a $960 thousand Community  Development Block Grant from
the state of Maryland.  Proceeds of $130 thousand were received during fiscal
1994 under this grant. The Company has also received  preliminary  approval from
the state of Maryland for two grants for approximately $3 million to finance its
expansion to meet order requirements particularly for wireless products.

The Company plans significant capital expansion in order to service the
increasing requirements for its products in the wireless markets. Alternative
sources of financing are being pursued, such as increasing the amount of the
line of credit, receiving additional grant funding, capital financing  through
leases, and  any  other sources of funding capital that may become available. At
April 2, 1995, $3.0 million was borrowed under the line of credit agreement. The
$7.5 million line of credit is available until September 5, 1995 and the 
Company expects to extend the line of credit agreement at that time.  As demand
for capacity increases, the Company will continue to seek alternative sources 
of funding capital.

OTHER MATTERS

Inflation did not have a significant impact upon the results of operations of
the Company during the three year period ended April 2, 1995.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

ITEM 8      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX TO FINANCIAL 
            STATEMENTS






- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands except share and per share amounts)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands except per share amounts)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)



Supplemental disclosures:

Capital lease obligations of $277, $309 and $1,349 were incurred during the 
years ended April 2, 1995,  April 3, 1994, and March 28, 1993, respectively, 
when the Company entered into leases for new equipment.

The accompanying notes are an integral part to these financial statements.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(In thousands)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
(unaudited)
(In thousands except per share data) 



The Company's common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, symbol AHA.
The number of stockholders of record as of May 31, 1995 was approximately 1,200.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation:
     The financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
     subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
     been eliminated in consolidation.  The Company's fiscal year ends on the
     Sunday closest to March 31, there were 52 weeks in fiscal 1995, 53 weeks in
     fiscal 1994, and 52 weeks in fiscal 1993.

Revenue Recognition:
     Revenue is recognized when a product is shipped and services are performed.
     Contract revenue is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method,
     which is primarily measured on the ratio of units shipped to the total
     contract number of units. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on
     uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are
     determined.

Foreign Currency Translation:
     The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated in accordance with the
     Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52.  Foreign operations
     are remeasured as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. Monetary
     assets and liabilities are translated at the year end rates of exchange.
     Revenues and expenses (except cost of sales and depreciation) are
     translated at the average rate for the period.  Non-monetary assets,
     equity, cost of sales and depreciation are remeasured at historical rates.
     Remeasurement gains and losses are reflected currently in operations and
     are not material.

Research and Development Expenditures:
     Research and development expenditures are charged to income as incurred
     unless they are reimbursed under specific contracts. Losses incurred on the
     equity basis in the Company's two joint ventures are included in research
     and development.

Cash and Cash Equivalents: 
     Cash and cash equivalents include cash deposited in demand deposits at
     banks and temporary investments. The Company considers temporary
     investments as those with original maturities of less than 90 days.

Inventories:
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in,
     first-out basis, or market.

Property, Plant and Equipment: 
     Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided
     on the straight-line method for financial reporting and accelerated methods
     for tax purposes.

     Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes are 8 to 30 years for
     buildings and improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment.

Income Taxes: 
     In February 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
     of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."
     Statement 109 requires a change from the deferred method of accounting for
     income taxes of APB Opinion 11 to the asset and liability method of
     accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method of
     Statement 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
     future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
     statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
     respective tax bases. In addition, Statement 109 requires the recognition
     of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the
     extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred
     tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
     apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences
     are expected to be recovered or settled. Under Statement 109, the effect on
     deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized
     in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

     The Company adopted Statement 109 on March 29, 1993. There was no
     cumulative effect on earnings from the change in the method of accounting
     for income taxes.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Net Income Per Share:
     Net income per share of common stock for fiscal 1995 is computed on the
     basis of the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding plus
     common equivalent shares arising from the effect of dilutive stock options
     and warrants, using the treasury stock method.  In fiscal 1994 and 1993
     stock options did not impact net income per share as they were either
     insignificant or antidilutive.  The weighted average number of shares of
     common stock and common equivalent shares outstanding for the calculation
     of primary earnings per share was 7,882,000 in fiscal 1995, 7,502,000 in
     fiscal 1994, and 7,464,000 in fiscal 1993.

NOTE 2     JOINT VENTURES

In fiscal year 1984 the Company and Aerojet ElectroSystems Company formed a 
joint venture, and in fiscal year 1987 the Company entered into a similar
arrangement with Martin Marietta Corporation. These ventures were formed for the
purpose of developing and producing certain millimeter wave monolithic
integrated circuits. Each joint venture may be terminated by either party at any
time.

The Company's joint ventures with Aerojet ElectroSystems Company and Martin 
Marietta Corporation were created to share research and development expenses in
order to develop technology for millimeter wave monolithic integrated circuits.
In the case of the Aerojet/Alpha venture, this partnership has been dormant 
since 1987. The partnership has no remaining assets or liabilities. As for the
Martin/Alpha venture, the only assets or liabilities that exist are the original
capitalization of $5,000 and the amounts due to/due from the partners. The
technical goal established by this partnership is near completion and this
partnership will cease activity by the end of calendar year 1995. The Company's 
share of the joint venture's research and development expenses are recorded in
the Company's consolidated statements of operations. The Company has no
investment recorded on its consolidated balance sheet for either joint venture.

The Company's share of losses incurred by the joint ventures is recorded on the
equity basis and included in research and development expenses. The losses were
approximately $895,000, $856,000, and $1,618,000 in fiscal years 1995, 1994, and
1993, respectively.

NOTE 3     COMPANY OPERATIONS

The Company operates in one industry segment: the development, production and 
sale of microwave materials, devices and components. Sales include export sales 
primarily to Europe and Southeast Asia of $16,855,000, $16,471,000, and
$13,229,000, in fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

During fiscal year 1994, one customer accounted for 15% of the Company's total 
sales.

The Company operates sales subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Germany, and a
ceramic manufacturing operation in France. The following table shows certain
financial information relating to the Company's operations in various geographic
areas (in thousands):




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 3      COMPANY OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)



Transfers between geographic areas are made at terms that allow for a
reasonable profit to the seller.
        
NOTE 4      INVENTORIES



Work-in-process inventory has been reduced by allowances for estimated losses to
be sustained on completion of certain contracts. These allowances totaled
$117,000 and $593,000  in fiscal years 1995 and  1994, respectively.

NOTE 5      BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS

LINE OF CREDIT

The Company has a line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank for $7.5 million which
expires on September 5, 1995.  The line of credit is collateralized by various
receivables, inventories and equipment. Interest payments are due monthly at a
rate of 1 1/2% above prime (prime was 9.0% at April 2, 1995).  At April 2, 1995,
and April 3, 1994, $3.0 million and $1.25 million, respectively, had been
borrowed under this line of credit.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 5      BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

LONG-TERM DEBT



a. The mortgage note payable is collateralized by land and buildings having a
   net book value of $5,666,000 at April 2, 1995.  Principal installments of
   $3,333, plus interest, are due monthly until March 1997.

b. On November 20, 1990, the Company's $3.1 million Industrial Revenue Bond
   was sold to a financial investment company.  The bond will mature in July
   2004. The bond bears interest at a rate of 10.25% payable semi-annually. The
   Company is required to maintain $158,000 in escrow which is included in cash
   and cash equivalents.

   The Company has two other Industrial Revenue Bonds. The first bond was due in
   quarterly payments of $19,135 until December 1994 and bore interest at a rate
   of 10.25%. The second bond was sold on December 9, 1993, to the Farmers and
   Mechanics National Bank. The interest rate on this bond is prime and
   quarterly principal payments of $27,777 are due until March, 2002.

   The bonds are secured by various property, plant and equipment with a net
   book value of $9,758,000 at April 2, 1995 and a pledge of lease revenues of
   its Methuen facility.

c. The City of Lawrence, Massachusetts lent the Company $989,000 in proceeds
   it acquired from an Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG). Monthly payments
   of $10,491 representing principal and interest at 5% on the unamortized
   balance are required until January 1999.

d. The Company has three unsecured government sponsored and start-up business
   loans.  The first loan is at an interest rate of 8.75% and requires annual
   payments of $36,000 beginning December 1994 through December 1998. The second
   loan is at an interest rate of 5% and requires interest payments only until
   February 1995.  Starting in February 1995 and through February 2000 quarterly
   principal and interest payments of $8,300 are due. The third loan is at an
   interest rate of 9.0% and requires principal and interest payments of $3,500
   through January 1998.

e. The Company obtained a ten year $960,000 loan from the State of Maryland
   under the Community Development Block Grant program.  At April 2, 1995 the
   Company had received total funding of $364,000. Quarterly payments will be
   due beginning June 1996 through December 2003 and will represent principal
   and interest at 5% of the unamortized balance.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 5      BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):



Capital Lease Obligations

At April 2, 1995,  included in property, plant and equipment are the following 
capitalized leases (in thousands):



Future minimum lease payments under the capitalized lease obligations at April 
2, 1995 were as follows (in thousands):



Cash payments for interest were $635,000, $740,000, and $899,000, in fiscal
years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

The bonds and line of credit include various covenants that require maintenance 
of certain financial ratios and balances and restrict creation of funded debt 
and payment of dividends. Under the most restrictive covenants the Company may
not pay dividends except restricted payments in an amount not to exceed $400,000
in connection with the redemption of certain common stock repurchase rights.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6     REPOSITIONING CHARGES

On January 25, 1994, the Company announced the transfer of certain component 
product lines manufacturing from a facility in Methuen, Massachusetts to the 
Company's headquarters facility in Woburn, Massachusetts. These component
product lines were used principally by military customers. Faced with a
continued decline in defense business, the Company determined the need for
further consolidations to reduce operating costs and enhance its competitive
position in commercial electronics markets, principally wireless communications.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1994, the Company recorded a repositioning
charge of $5.6 million which included charges for employee severance costs of
$2.2 million, the write-down of $2.6 million to reduce the carrying value of the
Methuen, Massachusetts plant to its estimated net realizable value and costs
related to the consolidation of the facilities of $800 thousand. During fiscal
1995 the Company paid severance costs of $600 thousand and consolidation costs
of $300 thousand. Severance costs of $500 thousand and consolidation costs of
$600 thousand were paid in fiscal 1994. The $2.6 million write-down of the
Methuen plant includes $1.2 million for carrying and selling costs through the
expected date of disposal. The Methuen plant was valued at $1.9 million at April
2, 1995 and $1.4 million at April 3, 1994. During fiscal 1995, the Company paid
$500 thousand in carrying costs related to the Methuen plant.

NOTE 7      OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

Other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands):



NOTE 8      INCOME TAXES

Income (loss) before income taxes consisted of (in thousands):



The provision for income taxes consisted of (in thousands):






ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8      INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

The provision for income taxes is different from that which would be obtained by
applying the statutory Federal income tax rate to income (loss) before income
taxes.  The items causing this difference are as follows (in thousands):






The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of April 2, 1995, was
$9,196,000. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended
April 2, 1995 was a decrease of $763,000.

Cash payments for income taxes were $157,000, $111,000, and $194,000 in fiscal 
years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively. As of April 2, 1995, the Company has
available for income tax purposes approximately $25,500,000 in federal net
operating loss carryforwards which may be used to offset future taxable income.
These tax benefits begin to expire in fiscal year 2004.  The Company also has
minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $10,000 which are available to
reduce future federal regular income taxes, if any, over an indefinite period.
In addition, the Company has state tax credit carryforwards of $193,000 of which
$135,000 is available to reduce state income taxes over an indefinite period.




- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8      INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability of approximately
$734,000 for the undistributed earnings of its 100 percent owned foreign
subsidiaries that arose in 1995 and prior years because the Company currently
does not expect those unremitted earnings to reverse and become taxable to the
Company in the foreseeable future.  A deferred tax liability will be recognized
when the Company expects that it will recover those undistributed earnings in a
taxable manner, such as through receipt of dividends or sale of the investments.
As of April 2, 1995, the undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries were
approximately $2,158,000.

NOTE 9      COMMON STOCK

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

The Company has a Long-Term Incentive Plan adopted in 1986 pursuant to which 
stock options, with or without stock appreciation rights, may be granted and 
restricted stock awards and book value awards may be made.

        Common Stock Options
        These options may be granted in the form of incentive stock options or
        non-qualified stock options. The option price may vary at the discretion
        of the Compensation Committee but shall not be less than the greater of
        fair market value or par value. The option term may not exceed ten
        years. The options may be exercised in cumulative annual increments
        commencing one year after the date of grant.

        Restricted Stock Awards
        For fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively, a total of 31,000,
        5,000, and 15,000, restricted shares of the Company's common stock were
        granted to certain employees.

        The market value of shares awarded were $147,000, $16,000, and $54,000, 
        for fiscal 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively. These amounts were
        recorded as unearned compensation - restricted stock and are shown as a
        separate component of stockholders' equity.  Unearned compensation is
        being amortized to expense over the five year vesting period and
        amounted to $64,000, $44,000, and $42,000 in fiscal 1995, 1994, and
        1993, respectively.

LONG-TERM COMPENSATION PLAN

On October 1, 1990, the Company adopted a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(SERP) for certain key executives. Benefits payable under this plan are based
upon the participant's base pay at retirement reduced by proceeds from the
exercise of certain stock options.  Options vest over a five year period.
Benefits earned under the SERP are fully vested at age 55, however, the full
amount of accrued benefit will not usually begin until age 65.  Compensation 
expense related to the plan was $68,000, $130,000, and $115,000, in fiscal 1995,
1994, and 1993, respectively. Total benefits accrued under these plans were
$453,000 at April 2, 1995, $385,000 at April 3, 1994, and $255,000 at March 28,
1993.




ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9      COMMON STOCK (CONTINUED)

A summary of stock option and restricted stock award transactions follows:





STOCK PURCHASE WARRANTS

In April, 1994, the Company amended its line of credit agreement and issued 
50,000 stock purchase warrants to Silicon Valley Bank. The warrants are
exercisable at $3.75 per share.

STOCK OPTION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

On September 12, 1994, the shareholders approved a Non-Qualified Stock Option 
Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  A total of 50,000 options may be granted under
this plan. The option price is the greater of the fair market value of the
shares of Common Stock at the time the option is granted or four dollars
($4.00). Options are exercisable 20% per year. During fiscal 1995, each of the
three directors received 5,000 non-qualified stock options issued at $5.875 per
share.



- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9      COMMON STOCK (CONTINUED)

STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

In December, 1989, the Company adopted an employee stock purchase plan.  The 
plan was amended in October 1992 to provide for six month offering periods. 
Under the plan eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll 
deductions of up to 10% of compensation.  The price per share is the lower of
85% of the market price at the beginning or end of the offering period. The plan
provides for purchases by employees of up to an aggregate of 300,000 shares
through December 31, 1995.  Shares of 28,875, 29,313, and 30,556, were purchased
under this plan in fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

In November 1986, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend 
distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock.  Each 
right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one common 
share at an exercise price of $30 per share.  A right will also be issued with 
each common share that is issued prior to the time the rights become
exercisable or expire.
        
The rights are not exercisable until after a person or group acquires 10% or 
more of the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more 
of the common stock except with respect to persons who already hold 10% in which
case the threshold is any additional shares.  In such events, each holder shall
be entitled to purchase that number of shares of the Company's common stock
having a market value equal to two times the $30 per share exercise price. In
lieu of such right, the Board of Directors may issue one share of common stock
for each right held by everyone except the acquiring person or group. In the
event that the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination
transaction or more than 50% of its assets or earning power are sold, each 
holder shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise of each right, 
that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time
of such transaction would have a market value of two times the $30 per share
exercise price.

The Company is entitled to redeem the rights at five cents per right at any time
before the rights are exercisable.  The rights will expire on December 5, 1996
unless earlier redeemed by the Company.

NOTE 10     EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN

In 1985, the Company adopted a 401(k) Plan which is intended to provide the 
Company's employees with retirement and other benefits.  All of the Company's 
employees who are at least 21 years old and have completed one year of service 
(1,000 hours in a 12 month period) with the Company were eligible to receive a
Company matching contribution.  The Company contributed $.50 for each $1.00
contributed by employees, up to a maximum Company matching contribution of $500
for fiscal 1995, 1994, and 1993. For fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993 the
Company contributed $232,000, $281,000, and $212,000, respectively.


ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10     EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)

On March 31, 1995, the Company merged its Employee Stock Ownership Plan into the
Alpha Industries, Inc. Saving and Retirement Plan also known as the 401(K) plan.
All of the Company's employees who are at least 21 years old and have completed
six months of service (1,000 hours in a 12 month period) with the Company are
eligible to receive a Company contribution.  Company contributions are
determined by the Company and may be in the form of cash or the Company's stock.

Under the previous Employee Stock Ownership Plan contributions were determined 
by the Board of Directors and contributed to a trust created to acquire shares 
of the Company's common stock and other assets for the exclusive benefit of the
participants. The Company accrued a contribution of $226,000 for fiscal 1995
that is expected to be distributed during fiscal 1996. No contributions were
made for fiscal years 1994 and 1993.

NOTE 11     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has various operating leases for manufacturing and engineering 
equipment and buildings. Rent expense amounted to $1,255,000, $1,418,000, and 
$1,348,000, in fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively. Purchase
options  may be exercised at various times for some of these leases. Future
minimum rent expense under these leases is as follows (in thousands):
        


The Company has been notified by federal and state environmental agencies of its
potential liability with respect to the following two sites:  the Spectron, Inc.
Superfund site in Elkton, Maryland; and the Seaboard Chemical Corporation site
in Jamestown, North Carolina.  In each case several hundred other companies have
also been notified about their potential liability regarding these sites. The
Company continues to deny that it has any responsibility with respect to these
sites other than as a de minimis party.  Management is of the opinion that the
outcome of the aforementioned environmental matters will not have a material
effect on the Company's operations.

The Company is party to suits and claims arising in the normal course of
business. Management believes these are adequately provided for or will result
in no significant additional liability to the  Company.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Alpha Industries, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Alpha Industries, Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index under Item 8.  In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have 
also audited the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying 
index under Item 14.   These consolidated financial statements and financial 
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and  financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Alpha Industries, 
Inc. and subsidiaries at April 2, 1995 and April 3, 1994, and the results of 
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended April 2, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, 
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company 
adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement 
of Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" in fiscal 1994.


                                                KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



Boston, Massachusetts
May 12, 1995


ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
       FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

                                    PART III

ITEM 10     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

See the section entitled "Election of Directors" appearing in the Company's 
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September 
11, 1995, to be filed within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year, 
which section is incorporated herein by reference, and the section entitled 
"Executive Officers" under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See the section entitled "Executive Compensation" appearing in the Company's 
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September 
11, 1995, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

See the section entitled "Securities Beneficially Owned by Certain Persons" 
appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on September 11, 1995, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 13     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

See the section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on September 11, 1995, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  Index to Financial Statements

         The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed on the
         index appearing on page 10 .

     2.  Index to Financial Statement Schedules

         The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this 
         report (page references are to this report):

         Schedule II       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page 34)

     Other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
     which they are required or because the required information is given in the
     financial statements or notes thereto.

     3.  Exhibits

         (3)  Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.

              (a)  Composite Certificate of Incorporation dated May 26, 1966 as
                   amended March 21, 1967 and October 27, 1967 (Filed as
                   Exhibits 3(a), (b) and (c) to Registrant's Registration
                   Statement on


- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Form S-1 (Registration No. 2-27685)*, October 6, 1978 (Filed
                   as Exhibit A to Proxy Statement dated July 27, 1978)*,
                   October 22, 1979 (Filed as Exhibit (a)(3)(3) to Annual Report
                   on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended March 31, 1981)*,
                   September 30, 1981 (Filed as Exhibit 20(b) to Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended September 30, 1981)*,
                   February 8, 1983 (Filed as Exhibit 19(a) to Quarterly Report
                   on Form 10-Q for quarter ended December 31, 1983)*, December
                   3, 1985 (Filed as Exhibit 3(a) to Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the year ended March 31, 1986)* and October 20, 1986
                   (Filed as Exhibit 3(a) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                   year ended March 31, 1987)*.

              (b)  Amended and restated By-laws of the Corporation dated April
                   30, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 3(b) to the Annual Report on Form
                   10-K for the year ended March 29, 1992)*.

         (4)  Instruments defining rights of security holders, including
              indentures.

              (a)  Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (Filed as Exhibit 4(a)
                   to Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                   2-25197))*.

              (b)  Frederick County Industrial Development Revenue Bond, Deed of
                   Trust, Loan Agreement and Guaranty and Indemnification
                   Agreement dated June 17, 1982 (Filed as Exhibit 4(g) to the
                   Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed July 29, 1982)*.
                   Bond and Loan Document Modification Agreement dated December
                   9, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 4(c) to the Quarterly Report on
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 26, 1993)*.

              (c)  Methuen, Massachusetts Industrial Revenue Mortgage, Indenture
                   of Trust and Agreement among Massachusetts Industrial Finance
                   Agency, Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston, as
                   Trustee; Guaranty Agreement among Registrant, The First
                   National Bank of Boston, as Trustee and Massachusetts
                   Industrial Finance Agency dated as of August 1, 1984 and
                   amended on November 20, 1990; and Agreement between
                   Massachusetts Industrial Finance Agency and Registrant dated
                   August 1, 1984 and amended November 20, 1990 (Original
                   Agreement filed as Exhibit 4(b) to the Quarterly Report on
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1984)*
                   (Amendment filed as Exhibit 4(e) to the Quarterly Report on
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 30, 1990)*.

              (d)  Line of Credit Agreement between Registrant and Silicon
                   Valley Bank dated as of November 20, 1990 (Original Agreement
                   filed as Exhibit 4(f) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended December 30, 1990)*;  amended September
                   1, 1991 (Filed as Exhibit 4(f) to the Quarterly Report on
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 1991)*; amended
                   September 8, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 4(e) to the Quarterly
                   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27,
                   1992)*; amended February 18, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 4(e) to
                   the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 28,
                   1993)*, amended June 18, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 4(e) to the
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October
                   2, 1994)*; amended September 3, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 4(e)
                   to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   September 26, 1993)*; amended April 1, 1994 (Filed as Exhibit
                   4(e) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                   ended July 3, 1994)* and further amended September 5, 1994
                   (Filed as Exhibit 4(e) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                   for the quarter ended October 2, 1994)*.

              (e)  Loan Contract dated January 21, 1985, First Amendment to Loan
                   Contract dated October 11, 1985 and Second Amendment to Loan
                   Contract dated December 19, 1986 each between Registrant, the
                   City of Lawrence and the Lawrence Redevelopment Authority;
                   Guaranty Agreement dated January 21, 1985 and First Amendment
                   to Guaranty Agreement dated October 11, 1985, each between
                   Registrant and the Lawrence Redevelopment Authority; and
                   Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) (Grant Number:
                   B-84-AA-25-0142) and


ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

                   Amendment thereto, each dated April 6, 1984 and each between
                   the City of Lawrence and the United States Department of
                   Housing and Urban Development (Filed as Exhibit 4(k) to the
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
                   31, 1986)*.

              (f)  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of November
                   24, 1986, as amended and restated July 3, 1990 and as further
                   amended September 9, 1990 and September 24, 1990, between
                   Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights
                   Agent (The July 3, 1990 restatement and the September 9, 1990
                   and September 24, 1990 amendments were filed as Exhibit 4 to
                   the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 3, 1990 and
                   Exhibits 4(a) and 4(b) to the Current Report on Form 8-K
                   dated September 18, 1990, respectively)*.

              (g)  Loan and Security Agreement dated December 15, 1993 between
                   Trans-Tech, Inc., and County Commissioners of Frederick
                   County (Filed as Exhibit 4(h) to the Quarterly Report on Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994)*.

              (h)  Stock Purchase Warrant for 50,000 shares of the Registrant's
                   Common Stock issued to Silicon Valley Bank as of April 1,
                   1994 (Filed as Exhibit 4(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended July 3, 1994)*.

              (i)  Mortgage, Fixture Financing Statement and Assignment of
                   Leases and Rents dated September 16, 1994 between The First
                   National Bank of Boston, as Trustee, and Registrant and First
                   Amendment to Mortgage, Fixture Financing Statement and
                   Assignment of Leases and Rents dated October 12, 1994 between
                   The First National Bank of Boston, as Trustee, and
                   Registrant. Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Guaranty
                   Agreement dated September 16, 1994 between The First National
                   Bank of Boston, as Trustee, The First National Bank of Boston
                   and the Massachusetts Industrial Finance Agency (Filed as
                   Exhibit 4(j) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   quarter ended October 2, 1994)*.

        (10)  Material Contracts.

              (a)  Alpha Industries, Inc., 1986 Long-Term Incentive Plan as
                   amended (Filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the Quarterly Report on
                   Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994)*. (1)

              (b)  Alpha Industries, Inc., Employee Stock Purchase Plan as
                   amended October 22, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10(b) to the
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
                   28, 1993)*. (1)

              (c)  SERP Trust Agreement between the Registrant and the First
                   National Bank of Boston as Trustee dated April 8, 1991 (Filed
                   as Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                   fiscal year ended March 31, 1991)*. (1)

              (d)  Digital Business Agreement between Digital Equipment
                   Corporation and Registrant dated April 2, 1990.  Master Lease
                   Addendum (Ref. No. 6260) to Digital Business Agreement No.
                   3511900 between Digital Equipment Corporation and Registrant
                   dated April 2, 1990 (Filed as Exhibit 10(g) to the Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29,
                   1992)*.

              (e)  Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated November 8, 1990
                   between Registrant and Shamie Management Corporation (Filed
                   as Exhibit 10(h) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                   fiscal year ended March 29, 1992)*. (1)


- -----------------------------------------ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

              (f)  Alpha Industries, Inc., Long-Term Compensation Plan dated
                   September 24, 1990 (Filed as Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual
                   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29,
                   1992)*; amended March 28, 1991 (Filed as Exhibit 10 (a)
                   to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   June 27, 1993)* and as further amended October 27, 1994. (1)

              (g)  Master Equipment Lease Agreement between AT&T Commercial
                   Finance Corporation and the Registrant dated June 19, 1992
                   (Filed as Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                   the fiscal year ended March 28, 1993)*.

              (h)  Employment Agreement dated October 1, 1990 between the
                   Registrant and Martin J. Reid, as amended March 26, 1992 and
                   amended January 19, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 10(k) to the
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
                   28, 1993)* and amended August 10, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit
                   10(j) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                   ended July 3, 1994)*. (1)

              (i)  Employment Agreement dated October 1, 1990 between the
                   Registrant  and George S. Kariotis, as amended May 15, 1991
                   and amended January 22, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 10(l) to the
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
                   28, 1993)* and amended August 10, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit
                   10(k) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                   ended July 3, 1994)*. (1)

              (j)  Employment Agreement dated October 1, 1990 between the
                   Registrant and Patrick Daniel Gallagher, as amended March 24,
                   1992 and amended by Second Amendment dated September 29, 1992
                   and Third Amendment dated January 20, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit
                   10(m) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                   ended March 28, 1993)* and Fourth Amendment dated August 3,
                   1994 (Filed as Exhibit 10(l) to the Quarterly Report on Form
                   10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994)*. (1)

              (k)  Employment Agreement dated April 28, 1994 between the
                   Registrant and Joseph J. Alberici.  (Filed as Exhibit 10(o)
                   to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                   April 3, 1994)*; and further amended August 3, 1994 (Filed as
                   Exhibit 10(n) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                   quarter ended October 2, 1994)*. (1)

              (l)  Consulting Agreement dated August 13, 1992 between the
                   Registrant and Sidney Topol. (Filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the
                   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3,
                   1994)*. (1)

              (m)  Employment Agreement dated August 3, 1994 between the
                   Registrant and Thomas C. Leonard (Filed as Exhibit 10(p) to
                   the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   October 2, 1994)*. (1)

              (n)  Master Lease Agreement between Comdisco, Inc. and the
                   Registrant dated September 16, 1994  (Filed as Exhibit 10(q)
                   to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                   October 2, 1994)*.

              (o)  Alpha Industries, Inc., 1994 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan
                   for Non-Employee Directors (Filed as Exhibit 10(r) to the
                   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  October
                   2, 1994)*. (1)


ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

              (p)  Alpha Industries Executive Compensation Plan dated January 1,
                   1995 and Trust for the Alpha Industries Executive
                   Compensation Plan dated January 3, 1995. (1)

              (q)  Letter of Employment dated January 24, 1995 between the
                   Registrant and David J. Aldrich. (1)

              (r)  Alpha Industries, Inc. Savings and Retirement Plan dated
                   March 31, 1995. (1)

        (11)  Statement re computation of per share earnings.

        (21)  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

        (23)  Consent of Independent Auditors.

        (27)  Financial Data Schedule.

              (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

                   The Company filed a report on Form 8-K with the Securities
                   and Exchange Commission on January 30, 1995 reporting under
                   Item 5 - Other Events the resignation of Gerald T. Cameron,
                   Sr. as director effective January 4, 1995.


- ------------------
*Not filed herewith. In accordance with Rule 12b-32 promulgated pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, reference is hereby made to
documents previously filed with the Commission, which are incorporated by
reference herein.

(1)  Management Contracts.


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                             ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC.
                             (REGISTRANT)

                             By: /s/ MARTIN J. REID
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 Martin J. Reid, President

Date:  June 30, 1995


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on June 30, 1995.



ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES-----------------------------------------

                                  SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
(In thousands)



