10-K


a25760e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the Transition period from

to

Commission file number 1-5560

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

04-2302115

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(781) 376-3000

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $0.25 per share

Nasdaq Global Select Market

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15(d) of the Act.

o

Yes

þ

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or
a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

o

Yes

þ

No

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant’s common stock as reported on the NASDAQ
Global Select Market on the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter (March 31, 2006) was approximately $1,081,410,597. The number of outstanding shares
of the registrant’s common stock, par value $0.25 per share as
of December 5, 2006 was
162,876,234.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part of Form 10-K

Documents from which portions are incorporated by reference

Part III

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to
the Registrant’s 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed on
or before January 29, 2007 are incorporated by reference into Items
10, 11, 12, 13 and 14

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 29, 2006




In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. In addition, the following
industry standards are referenced throughout the document:

Skyworks, Breakthrough Simplicity, the star design logo, DCR, Helios, Intera, iPAC, LIPA, Polar
Loop, Single Package Radio, SPR, System Smart, and Trans-Tech are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other
countries. All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective companies.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Words such as
“believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “should”, “could”, “seek”, “intends”, “plans”,
“potential”, “continue”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “predicts” and similar expressions or
variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are
not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Additionally, forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:



Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the good faith
judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known
by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual
results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in
or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual
results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge
you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report and in the other
documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commissions (“SEC”) in evaluating our
forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our
forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of
this report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date made.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains estimates made by independent parties and by us
relating to market size and growth and other industry data. These estimates involve a number of
assumptions and limitations and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to such estimates. In
addition, projections, assumptions and estimates of our future performance and the future
performance of the industries in which we operate are necessarily subject to a high degree of
uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”. These and other factors
could cause results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in the estimates made
by the independent parties and by us.

PART l

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an innovator of high performance analog
and mixed signal semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. The Company’s power amplifiers,
front-end modules and direct conversion radios are at the heart of many of today’s leading-edge
multimedia handsets. Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks also offers a diverse portfolio of
linear products that support automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, industrial and medical
applications.

Skyworks was formed through the merger (“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement
and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16, 2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and
among Alpha, Conexant and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). For purposes of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are
collectively referred to as “Washington/Mexicali”. Shortly thereafter, Alpha, which was
incorporated in Delaware in 1962, changed its corporate name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

Headquartered in Woburn, Mass., Skyworks is worldwide with engineering, manufacturing, sales and
service facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America. Our Internet address is
www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our website free of charge our Annual Report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms 3, 4
and 5, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit such
material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information contained in our
website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Skyworks
believes the wireless industry is in the midst of a significant transition, with two major trends impacting
the market landscape for wireless products and the way original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) engage semiconductor
suppliers. First, there is a market share consolidation underway. By virtually all analyst
estimates, 80 percent of the handset market is controlled by five OEMs.
Second, and perhaps even more dramatic, is the number of handsets requiring both voice and
high speed data functionality as consumers demand smaller handsets that include multimedia
applications such as cameras, MP3 players, video streaming, gaming, Web browsing and WiFi based
802.11 wireless data applications. This demand increases the relative complexity of a handset
since maintaining data integrity while at the same time handling a voice session is a significant
challenge. There is a greater need for compatibility among the Radio Frequency (“RF”), the
analog/mixed signal and system software. As a result, OEMs today are engaging suppliers as
partners, and much earlier in the development process. By contrast, in the past, handset
manufacturers could mix and match power amplifiers and transceivers much more readily using various
suppliers — and they did so rather routinely. Skyworks believes that going forward the link
between the front-end module, radio and software is increasingly critical and can no longer be
easily decoupled.



These market shifts are having a profound impact on the industry today, particularly on
semiconductor suppliers. As handsets become more complex, chipmakers will continue to look for new
design and process techniques to remain in a leadership position with their customers.

The Company is well positioned to capitalize on these trends. With broad technology breadth
and depth, engagements with all top tier handset OEMs, and manufacturing scale, Skyworks can be a
leader within its peer group.

Meanwhile, outside of the handset market, wireless technologies are rapidly proliferating as they
are the critical link between the analog and digital worlds. Core analog technology allows for the
detection, measurement, amplification and conversion of temperature, pressure and audio information
into the digital realm. According to the Semiconductor Industry Association, the total available
market for the analog semiconductor segment is expected to approach $50 billion in 2009. Today,
this adjacent analog semiconductor market, which is characterized by longer product lifecycles and
higher gross margins, is highly fragmented and diversified among various end-markets, customer
bases and applications.

In 2004, Skyworks launched its Linear Products business to aggressively leverage the Company’s core
competencies and modeling capabilities, along with its strong catalog sales channels and
specialized rep and distributor networks, into non-handset applications. Skyworks portfolio takes
the intersection point between key strengths and the needs of the markets the Company has targeted:
infrastructure, medical, automotive and broadband, among others, to create a business characterized
by longer product lifecycles, sustained revenue profiles, diverse applications and contribution
margins that are typically 10 to 15 points higher than the handset business.



SKYWORKS’ STRATEGY

Skyworks’
vision is to become the leading supplier of high performance analog
and mixed signal semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. Key
elements in our strategy include:

Skyworks’ vision is to become the leading supplier of high performance analog and mixed signal
semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. Key elements in our strategy include:

Expanding Power Amplifier and Front-End Solutions Market Share

Our products offer customers solutions that significantly speed time-to-market while dramatically
reducing bill of material costs, power consumption and footprints. We plan to increase our current
40 percent worldwide market share position through higher levels of integration and continued
innovation, leveraging our leading edge process and packaging technology.

Capturing
Increasing Dollar Content in Third and Fourth generation Applications

As the industry migrates to multi-mode EDGE, WEDGE, WCDMA and WiMAX architectures, RF complexity in
the transmit and receive chain substantially increases given simultaneous voice and high speed data
communications requirements, coupled with the need for backward compatibility to existing networks.
As a result, Skyworks believes that the addressable semiconductor market for our solutions
essentially doubles.

Gaining RF Market Share in Helios™, DigRF and WDCMA

We continue to expand our radio presence with the Helios™ platform, which bundles our single chip
direct conversion transceiver and front-end module. Skyworks is now supporting the majority of tier
one handset OEMs with complete radios and we look forward to even greater traction as we launch our
differentiated DigRF and WCDMA solutions in the coming year.

Diversifying into Adjacent Linear Markets

By leveraging core analog, mixed signal and RF technology, Skyworks is also able to deliver
solutions to broader and diverse markets that are characterized by longer product lifecycles,
sustained revenue profiles and higher contribution margins than our handset business. While the
addressable market for linear products is highly fragmented, it is roughly four times the size of
the cellular handset RF industry.



Delivering Operational Excellence

Skyworks’ strategy is to vertically integrate where we can differentiate or otherwise enter
alliances and partnerships for leading-edge capabilities. These partnerships and alliances are
designed to ensure product leadership and competitive advantage in the marketplace. We are focused
on achieving the industry’s shortest cycle times, highest yields and ultimately the lowest product
cost structure.

BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, Skyworks began the restructuring of its business by
discontinuing its baseband operations in order to sharpen focus on its high growth core business.
Skyworks’ baseband product area developed complete reference designs, incorporating the digital
signal processor and software functionality, in support of tier-three handset suppliers. This
initiative was complex, research and development intensive and generated substantial operating
losses. As tier-one OEMs increasingly dominate the landscape, the addressable market for the
Company’s baseband solutions had significantly contracted. As a result of this decision, Skyworks
restructured its business to focus on its core analog and RF product markets.

To address the wireless industry opportunities discussed above and to execute our strategy, we have
aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. We believe
we possess a broad technology capability and one of the most complete wireless communications
product portfolios that, when coupled with key customer relationships with all major handset
manufacturers, positions us well to meet industry needs. Below are just a few examples from each of
our product portfolios.



SKYWORKS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO

DCR™ Transceivers

Attenuators

GPRS RF Subsystems

Chip Capacitors

GSM/GPRS/EDGE Power Amplifiers

Diodes

Helios™ DigRF Subsystems

Directional Couplers/Detectors

Helios™ EDGE RF Subsystems

Hybrids

Intera™ Front-End Modules

Infrastructure RF Subsystems

SPR

®

Solutions

Mixers/Demodulators

TD-SCDMA Power Amplifiers

Modulators

WCDMA/CDMA Power Amplifiers

Phase Shifters

Power Dividers/Combiners

Receivers

Switches

Synthesizers/PLLs

Technical Ceramics

Mobile Platforms:

•

DCR Transceiver (Tx/Rx):

encompasses the complete RF transmit and receive functions

•

Front-End Modules (FEM)

: power amplifiers that are integrated with switches, diplexers,
filters and other components to create a single package front-end solution

•

Power Amplifiers (PA)

: the module that strengthens the signal so that it has sufficient
energy to reach a base station

•

Helios™ RF Subsystems/Single Package Radio (SPR

®

) Solution:

combines the transceiver,
the PA and associated controller, surface acoustic wave (SAW) filters, and a switchplexer
into a single, multi chip module (MCM) package

Linear Products:



THE SKYWORKS ADVANTAGE

By turning complexity into simplicity, we provide our customers with the following competitive
advantages:

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team is globally
deployed across all major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales effort
with independent manufacturers’ representatives, assuring broader coverage of territories and
customers. We also utilize distribution partners, some of which are franchised globally with others
focused in specific regional markets (e.g., Europe, North America, China and Taiwan).

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for developing sales and
advertising literature, print media, such as product announcements and catalogs, as well as a
variety of Web-based content. Skyworks’ sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a
customer design. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the
inception of a new program. This partnership allows our team to facilitate customer-driven
solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our portfolio while providing high value and
greatly reducing time-to-market.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an
extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we strive to
expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering, manufacturing,
purchasing and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these
partnerships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing
personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.



We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our
continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to
feedback, we are able to mobilize actions to raise the level of customer satisfaction, improve our
ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics.
We are confident that diligence in following this path will position Skyworks to participate in
numerous opportunities for growth in the future.

REVENUES FROM AND DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION

For information regarding customer concentration and revenues from external customers for our
reportable segment for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

We own or are licensed under numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications
related to our products, our manufacturing operations and processes and other activities. In
addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and
services. We believe that intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade
secrets and trademarks are of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright,
trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and
confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary
technologies, devices, algorithms and processes. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will
meaningfully protect our intellectual property, and others may independently develop substantially
equivalent proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms or processes. In addition, the laws of
some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be
available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our proprietary technologies and
processes, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to
obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual
property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims
against us. Due to rapid technological changes in the industry, we believe that establishing and
maintaining a technological leadership position depends primarily on our ability to develop new
innovative products through the technical competence of our engineering personnel.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, overall product quality and
performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, and
protection of our intellectual property. Certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than
we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to
devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic
relationships among themselves or with our customers, resellers, suppliers or other third parties.
These relationships may affect our customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible
that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant
market share. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against
current and potential competitors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances. Recognizing the
importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high level of research and development
activities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help
identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. Our design
centers are strategically located around the world to be in close proximity to our customers and to
take advantage of key technical and engineering talent worldwide. We are focusing our development
efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing processes using our core technologies. Our
research and development expenditures for fiscal years ended September 29, 2006, September 30,
2005, and October 1, 2004 were $164.1 million, $152.2 million, and $152.6 million, respectively.



RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several
sources. We do not carry significant inventories and it is our policy not to depend on a sole
source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. Consequently, there are
limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or
limited sources. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase
orders. However, we have a limited number of long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Certain
of our suppliers consign raw materials to us at our manufacturing facilities. We request these raw
materials and take title to them as they are needed in our manufacturing process. We believe we
have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs
with suppliers located around the world.

BACKLOG

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products, with
such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. Due
to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us
prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date
is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. We also deliver product to certain
external customer “hubs” (consignment) where our significant customers will pull inventory from
their existing consignment inventories when required. These consignment pulls trigger revenue
recognition and we periodically replenish these inventory levels.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment,
the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will
continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims has been accomplished without
material effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition.

Most of our European customers have mandated that our products comply with local and regional lead
free and other “green” initiatives. We believe that our current expenditures for environmental
capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing
environmental protection, and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will
not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or
financial condition. We cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements.

CYCLICALITY/ SEASONALITY

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by rapid technological change.
Product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving technical standards and shortened product life cycles
may contribute to wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These and other factors, together
with changes in general economic conditions, may cause significant upturns and downturns in the
industry, and in our business. We have experienced periods of industry downturns characterized by
diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion
of average selling prices. These factors may cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and our
operational performance. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the
past and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

Sales of our products are also subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in
end-user consumer applications, such as mobile handsets. This generally occurs in the last calendar
quarter ending in December. Sales of semiconductor products and system solutions used in these
products generally increase just prior to this quarter and continue at a higher level through the
end of the calendar year.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal
years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EMPLOYEES

As of September 29, 2006, we employed approximately 4,000 persons. Approximately 700 employees in
Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In September 2006, the Company exited its
baseband product area and shortly thereafter reduced its global workforce by approximately 10%.
These reductions are not reflected in the aforementioned employee census. We believe our future
success will depend in large part upon our continued ability to attract, motivate, develop and
retain highly skilled and dedicated employees.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, many of which are
beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks, which may affect our future
operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to
consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem
immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in
general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties
actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer.

We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject
to significant downturns.

We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change
and evolving industry standards. From time to time, changes in general economic conditions,
together with other factors, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry. Periods of
industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess
inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. These characteristics, and in
particular their impact on the level of demand for digital cellular handsets, may cause substantial
fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor
industry may be severe and prolonged, and any prolonged delay or failure of the industry or the
wireless communications market to recover from downturns would materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also
periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity and materials constraints, which
may affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We have experienced these cyclical
fluctuations in our business and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

Uncertainties involving shifting marketplace dynamics

.

Our operating results for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 were adversely affected by shifting
marketplace dynamics which favored Tier I and Tier II handset manufacturers and suppliers.
Consolidation of the global handset marketplace from smaller Tier III handset customers primarily
located in developing countries to Tier I and Tier II customers accelerated in fiscal 2006. This
trend led to a slowdown in customer orders, increasing channel inventories and customer defaults on
accounts receivable. We responded to this rapidly changing dynamic by exiting our baseband product
area in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. While this marketplace shift only affected our baseband
product area there can be no assurances that future changes in marketplace conditions in our other
product areas will not materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to
respond to shifting customer demand in other product areas on a timely basis, if at all, and
accordingly this could result in a material and adverse impact to our operating results.

We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience future losses.

Our operating results for fiscal years 2002 and 2003 were adversely affected by a global economic
slowdown, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, and adverse business conditions
and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries. These factors led to a
slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of
backlog, higher overhead costs as a percentage of our reduced net revenue, and an abrupt decline in
demand for many of the end-user products that incorporate our wireless communications semiconductor
products and system solutions. Although we emerged from this period of economic



weakness in fiscal 2004, should economic conditions deteriorate for any reason, it could result in
underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, reduced revenues or changes in our revenue mix, and
other impacts that would materially and adversely affect our operating results. Due to this
economic uncertainty, although we were profitable in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, we cannot assure
you that we will be able to sustain such profitability or that we will not experience future
operating losses.

Additionally, the conflict in Iraq, as well as other contemporary international conflicts, natural
disasters, acts of terrorism, and civil and military unrest contributes to the economic
uncertainty. These continuing and potentially escalating conflicts can also be expected to place
continued pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These conditions make
it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan
future business activities. If such uncertainty continues or economic conditions worsen (or both),
our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely
affected.

The wireless semiconductor markets are characterized by intense competition.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete
in particular are intensely competitive. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor
manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share. We currently face significant
competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue.
This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average
selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share.
Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in
communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors
and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors for
semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others:

We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our
competitors enjoy the benefit of:



As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors have established or may in the future establish, financial or
strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These
relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share. Furthermore, some of our customers have divisions that internally develop or manufacture
products similar to ours, and may compete with us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result
in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized.

Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including for causes beyond our
control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process
consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean
environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of
the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in
equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial
percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our
operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at
acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our
business. In addition, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have
been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty claims, replace products, or pay costs
associated with the recall of a customer’s products containing our parts.

Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at
any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may include
electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or
risks, or other natural or man-made disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could
cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected
facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, we
cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity,
would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly
and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could
result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient
manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external
manufacturing or similar arrangements with others.

Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing
process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts
semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would
not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our
gross margin and profitability.

Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing
yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new
products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume
manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward
product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result,
material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on
our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields
and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be
magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our
manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life
cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while
maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the
longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining
costs.



We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products.

We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based
products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant
risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including:

•

the lack of ensured wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer
prices,

•

limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs
and quality assurance, and

•

the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process
technologies.

Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing
capacity, the third-party foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to the production
requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an
extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products
from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver
products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly
since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity
occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore
experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could
impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.

Although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to
package, assemble and test certain of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any
of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per
order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial
difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other
disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and
testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify
assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are
required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may
encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer
relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to
develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products.
However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the
risks described above.

We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.

Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the
components used in our manufacturing processes. Although we maintain relationships with suppliers
located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the
supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, recent increased demand from
the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components has resulted in tighter supplies.
We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to meet our delivery schedules, that we will
not lose a significant or sole supplier, or that a supplier will be able to meet performance and
quality specifications. If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules, or if we lost a
supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to
satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we review our
relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an
ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship
with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole supplier arrangements to meet certain
of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply
for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source supplier for epitaxial wafers
used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facilities.
If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our
business could result until an alternate source is obtained. To the extent we enter into additional
sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with
our supply arrangements would be exacerbated.



Changes in the accounting treatment of share-based compensation have adversely affected our results
of operations.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based
Payment” to require companies to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes.
Such equity-based award expensing has required us to value our employee stock option grants and
other equity-based awards pursuant to an option valuation formula and amortize that value against
our earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. Historically we accounted for
stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and had adopted the disclosure-only alternative of SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Share-Based Compensation.” We implemented SFAS 123(R) in the reporting
period starting October 1, 2005. This change in accounting treatment has materially affected our
reported results of operations as the share-based compensation expense has been and will continue
to be charged directly against our reported earnings but will have no impact on cash flows from
operations. We anticipate that our share-based compensation expense will approximate $24.2 million
in total from fiscal 2007 through 2010. This expense projection is calculated as of September 29,
2006 and does not take into account any future equity awards that we might issue nor does it
account for future actual stock-based award forfeitures. We will be required to adjust future
share-based compensation expense for actual future stock option forfeitures.

Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into
which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid
technological change, rapid product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short
product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization,
and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating results depend largely on our
ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. The
successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex
and depends on numerous factors, including:

Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other
factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems (“IT
Systems”).

We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in
research and development needed to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products in a
timely manner. We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product
development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market
growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless
communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will
satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to anticipate
new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to
respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in
the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products
interface. If we fail to



rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities and that
meet our customers requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and
adversely harmed.

In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. We believe
that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering
existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain
competitive.

The markets into which we sell our products are characterized by rapid technological change.

The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate. Our markets
generally exhibit the following characteristics:

These changes in our markets may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. Our products could
become obsolete or less competitive sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated
change in one or more of the above-noted factors.

The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development,
manufacture and sale of our products is critical to our success.

As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a
significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel.
The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry,
and therefore we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management
and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We
may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor
operating performance, given, among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and
our competitors. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to
attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to operate our business.

If OEMs and Original Design Manufacturers (“ODMs”) of communications electronics products do not
design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover,
a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer.

Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other
products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to
select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without
these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs
another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to
achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost,
time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a
customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a
design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to
reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially
successful, or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we



will continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and any failure
to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results.

Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in
significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.

After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six
months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months
or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle
time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which
could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we
may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative
expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never
generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer
cancels or changes its product plans.

Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely
affect our business.

Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we
sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold
products. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our
products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs
indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will
then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change
their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product
orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated
order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in
inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.

In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in
demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for
non-returnable products could be impaired.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company recorded bad debt expense of $35.1 million.
Specifically, the Company recorded charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an Asian
component distributor.

Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.

On September 29, 2006, we had total indebtedness of approximately $229.3 million, which represented
approximately 25.2% of our total capitalization.

As long as our 4.75 percent convertible subordinated notes due November 2007 remain outstanding, we
will have debt service obligations on such notes of approximately $8.5 million per year. If we
issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase.

Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments along with our ability to access financial markets for additional debt or equity
financing, will allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures,
debt obligations (to replace existing or maturing debt instruments), purchase obligations, working
capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. If necessary, among other
alternatives, we may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and we may obtain
other long-term debt, lines of credit and other financing.

Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including:

•

increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,



•

limiting our ability to obtain additional financing,

•

requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from
operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow
available for other purposes, including capital expenditures,

•

limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business
and the industry in which we compete, and

•

placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors
and competitors that have better access to capital resources.

Despite our current debt levels, we are able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase
the risks described above.

Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations.

Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost
one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its
orders for our products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Sales to our
three largest customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, represented
approximately 50.0% of our net revenue for fiscal 2006. We expect that our largest customers will
continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in fiscal 2007 and for the
foreseeable future.

Average product life cycles in the semiconductor industry tend to be very short

.

In the semiconductor industry, product life cycles tend to be short relative to the sales and
development cycles. Therefore, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result
in material revenue, and from time to time we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory.
If we were to incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory that we are not
able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results would
be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in
anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating
results would be harmed.

We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.

We might obtain additional sources of financing in the future. Based on our results of operations
for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing sources of liquidity, together with cash
expected to be generated from operations and short term investments along with our ability to
access financial markets for additional debt or equity financing, will likely allow us to
sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures, debt obligations, purchase
obligations, working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. To the
extent that existing cash and securities and cash from operations are insufficient to fund our
future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt
financing. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital markets, if and when we seek additional
financing as well as the then current condition of the Company, will affect our ability to raise
capital, as well as the terms of any such financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to
meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required would
have a material adverse effect on us.

In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our
business may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required
to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.



Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry
process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.

In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to
increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing
processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some
existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry
process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing
yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties,
delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the
future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to
smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to
effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If
our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently
implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect
to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party
intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of
design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.

A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United
States, primarily countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have
suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test
facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own packaging,
assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations are subject
to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited
to, risks regarding:



Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide
subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in handset prices that negatively impact
handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact
the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea,
Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.

Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations
and market downturns.

Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues,
earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.

These factors include, among others:

The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could
materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results
fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect
the price of our common stock

.

Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect
our revenues and operating results.

Global economic weakness can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly
wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. Although the wireless
communications industry has recovered somewhat from an industry-wide recession, such recovery may
not continue. In addition, we cannot predict what effects negative events, such as war or other
international conflicts, may have on the economy or the wireless communications industry. The
continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this
threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the global economy and to
the wireless communications industry and create further uncertainties. Further, a continued
economic recovery may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or
maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired.



Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.

Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and
components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide
integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential
is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with
smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer
gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.
If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify
the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect
the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing
their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies
for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to identify products and markets that require performance
attributes of gallium arsenide solutions.

We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands
that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us
from using our technology.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual
property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert
patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology or refrain from using it.

Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe
intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual
indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and
divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the
merits of any specific claim, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation because of
the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to:

We cannot assure you that our operating results or financial condition will not be materially
adversely affected if we were required to do any one or more of the foregoing items.

Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties.

We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes; evolving
industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing
levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain
technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain in a
competitive posture. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable
terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our
customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such
instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop
substitute technology to deliver competitive products.



If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to
compete.

We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well
as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often
incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our
designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party
intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like
activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This
could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our
management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that:

•

the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other
violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers,
suppliers or other third parties will be successful,

•

any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other
intellectual property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or

•

any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.

Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use
our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our
patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology,
it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in
loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be
broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent
protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in
foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection
may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.

There is a growing industry trend to include or adapt “open source” software that is generally made
available to the public by its developers, authors or third parties. Often such software includes
license provisions, requiring public disclosure of any derivative works containing open source
code. There is little legal precedent in the area of open source software or its effects on
copyright law or the protection of proprietary works. We take steps to avoid the use of open source
works in our proprietary software, and are taking steps to limit our suppliers from doing so.
However, in the event a copyright holder were to demonstrate in court that we have not complied
with a software license, we may be required to cease production or distribution of that work or to
publicly disclose the source code for our proprietary software, which may negatively affect our
operations or stock price.

We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through
operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or
current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our
authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems
or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our
operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the
methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and
acquisitions, and to integrate companies we acquire.

Although we have in the past and intend to continue to invest significant resources in internal
research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the
significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue
development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we intend to review
investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment
our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition
transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in:

•

issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders,



Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult,
expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and
customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition,
we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment.
When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with
a charge against earnings. For instance, we recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle in fiscal 2003 in the amount of $397.1 million as a result of the goodwill obtained in
connection with the Merger.

Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for
someone to acquire control of us.

We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of
incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that
would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our
Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as:



•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained
to amend or repeal the fair price provision.

In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any
business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the
time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors
then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the
stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are
met.

Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our
existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce
our products.

The semiconductor and electronics industries have been subject to increasing environmental
regulations. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various
substances, a number of which have been used in our products or processes. For example, the
European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS)
Directive now requires that certain substances be removed from all electronics components. Removing
such substances requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek
alternative substances, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our
products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to
ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative
substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single
source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally,
if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to
fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our
operating results.

We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could
adversely impact our business.

We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing
operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental
protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products would not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental
regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations
regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of
environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly
require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. We cannot
assure you that the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy
environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable
environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, you might not be
able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them.

The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such
fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:



•

general financial and other market conditions, and

•

domestic and international economic conditions.

Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility,
particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected
the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or
disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market
fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and our price-to-earnings
multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often
shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction,
particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Our Company has been, and in the future may be, the
subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our
stock price. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you
paid.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We own and lease manufacturing facilities and other real estate properties in the United States and
a number of foreign countries. For information regarding property, plant and equipment by
geographic region for each of the last two fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We own and lease approximately 760,000 square feet and 62,000 square feet,
respectively, of office and manufacturing space. In addition, we lease approximately 397,000 square
feet of sales office and design center space with approximately 22% of this space located in
foreign countries. We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and have executive offices in
Irvine, California. The following table sets forth our principal facilities measuring 50,000 square
feet or more:

Location

Owned/Leased

Primary Function

Woburn, Massachusetts

Owned

Corporate headquarters and manufacturing

Irvine, California

Leased

Office space and design center

Newbury Park, California

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Newbury Park, California

Leased

Design center

Adamstown, Maryland

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Mexicali, Mexico

Owned

Assembly and test facility

Due to the exit of our baseband product area on September 29, 2006, we will be vacating a portion
of the office and design center space in Irvine, California in fiscal year 2007 and certain of our
sales office and design center space at foreign locations.

We believe our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain
all the equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels.

Certain of our facilities, including our California and Mexico facilities, are located near major
earthquake fault lines. We maintain no earthquake insurance with respect to these facilities.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

From time to time various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be,
instituted or asserted against Skyworks, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters. The outcome of litigation cannot be



predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to
Skyworks. Intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed
against Skyworks, could materially and adversely affect the financial condition, or results of
operations of Skyworks.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended September
29, 2006.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “SWKS”. The
following table sets forth the range of high and low sale prices for our common stock for the
periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The number of stockholders of
record of Skyworks’ common stock as of November 16, 2006, was approximately 33,558.

High

Low

Fiscal year ended September 29, 2006:

First quarter

$

7.14

$

4.64

Second quarter

7.09

5.01

Third quarter

8.00

5.15

Fourth quarter

5.80

4.03

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2005:

First quarter

$

10.91

$

8.74

Second quarter

8.99

6.07

Third quarter

7.94

5.07

Fourth quarter

8.38

6.67

Neither Skyworks nor its corporate predecessor, Alpha, have paid cash dividends on common stock
since an Alpha dividend made in fiscal 1986, and Skyworks does not anticipate paying cash dividends
in the foreseeable future. Our expectation is to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to
finance future growth.

The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made by us during
the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2006:

Maximum Number

(or Approximately

Total Number of

Dollar Value) of

Shares Purchased

Shares that May

as Part of Publicly

Yet Be Purchased

Total Number of

Averaged Price

Announced Plans or

Under the Plans or

Period

Shares Purchased

Paid per Share

Programs

Programs

August 14, 2006

10,649

(1)

$

4.36

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

September 5, 2006

7,600

(1)

$

5.10

N/A(2)

N/A(2)

(1)

All shares of common stock reported in the table above were purchased by us, at the fair
market value of the common stock on August 14, 2006 and September 5, 2006, respectively, in
connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under restricted stock agreements
between us and certain of our key employees.

(2)

We have no publicly announced plans or programs.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

You should read the data set forth below in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s
fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2006 consisted of 52 weeks and ended
on September 29, 2006, and fiscal years 2005 and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on
September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, respectively. The following balance sheet data and
statements of operations data for the five years ended September 29, 2006, were derived from our
audited consolidated financial statements. Consolidated balance sheets at September 29, 2006 and
September 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and of cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 2006, and notes thereto appear elsewhere
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Because the Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, a purchase of Alpha by
Washington/Mexicali, the historical financial statements of Washington/Mexicali became the
historical financial statements of Skyworks after the Merger. The historical information provided
below does not include the historical financial results of Alpha for periods prior to June 26,
2002, the date the Merger was consummated. The historical financial information may not be
indicative of our future performance and does not reflect what the results of operations and
financial position prior to the Merger would have been had Washington/Mexicali operated
independently of Conexant during the periods presented prior to the Merger or had the results of
Alpha been combined with those of Washington/Mexicali during the periods presented prior to the
Merger.



Fiscal Year

(In thousands)

2006 (8)




2002 (1)

Statement of Operations Data:

Net revenues

$

773,750

$

792,371

$

784,023

$

617,789

$

457,769

Cost of goods sold (7)

511,071

484,599

470,807

370,940

329,701

Gross profit

262,679

307,772

313,216

246,849

128,068

Operating expenses:

Research and development

164,106

152,215

152,633

156,077

133,614

Selling, general and administrative (6)

135,801

103,070

97,522

85,432

51,074

Amortization of intangible assets (2)

2,144

2,354

3,043

4,386

12,929

Purchased in-process research and
development (3)

—

—

—

—

65,500

Restructuring and special charges (4)

26,955

—

17,366

34,493

116,321

Total operating expenses

329,006

257,639

270,564

280,388

379,438

Operating income (loss)

(66,327

)

50,133

42,652

(33,539

)

(251,370

)

Interest expense

(14,797

)

(14,597

)

(17,947

)

(21,403

)

(4,227

)

Other income (expense), net

8,350

5,453

1,691

1,317

(56

)

Income (loss) before income taxes and
cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle

(72,774

)

40,989

26,396

(53,625

)

(255,653

)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

15,378

15,378

3,984


(19,589

)

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

(88,152

)

25,611

22,412

(54,277

)

(236,064

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax (5)

—

—

—

(397,139

)

—

Net income (loss)

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

$

(236,064

)

Per share information:

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle, basic and
diluted

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(0.39

)

$

(1.72

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax, basic and diluted
(5)

—

—

—

(2.85

)

—

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(3.24

)

$

(1.72

)

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

245,223

$

337,747

$

282,613

$

249,279

$

79,769

Total assets

1,090,496

1,187,843

1,168,806

1,090,668

1,346,912

Long-term liabilities

185,783

237,044

235,932

280,677

184,309

Stockholders’ equity

729,093

792,564

751,623

673,175

1,014,976

(1)

The Merger was completed on June 25, 2002. Financial statements for periods prior to June
26, 2002, represent Washington/Mexicali’s combined results and financial condition. Financial
statements for periods after June 25, 2002, represent the consolidated results and financial
condition of Skyworks, the combined company.



(2)

Amounts in fiscal 2003 through 2006 primarily reflect amortization of current technology and
customer relationships acquired in the Merger. Amounts in fiscal 2002 primarily reflect
amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets related to the acquisition of Philsar
Semiconductor, Inc. in fiscal 2000.

(3)

In fiscal 2002, we recorded purchased in-process research and development charges of $65.5
million related to the Merger.

(4)

In fiscal 2006, we recorded restructuring and other special charges of $27.0 million related
to the exit of our baseband product area. Of the $27.0 million, $13.1 million related to
severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the write-down of technology licenses and
design software associated with the baseband product area, $4.2 million related to the
impairment of baseband related long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges. In
fiscal 2004, we recorded restructuring and special charges of $17.4 million, principally
related to the impairment of legacy technology licenses related to our baseband product area.
In fiscal 2003, we recorded restructuring and special charges of $34.5 million, principally
related to the impairment of assets related to our infrastructure products. In fiscal 2002, we
recorded special charges of $116.3 million, principally related to the impairment of the
assembly and test machinery and equipment and the related facility in Mexicali, Mexico, and
the write-off of goodwill and other intangible assets related to Philsar Semiconductor, Inc.

(5)

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” on October 1, 2002. As a result of this adoption, we performed a
transitional evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Based on
this transitional evaluation, we determined that our goodwill was impaired and recorded a
$397.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in fiscal
2003.

(6)

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded bad debt expense of $35.1 million.
Specifically, we recorded charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an Asian component distributor.

(7)

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we recorded $23.3 million of inventory charges and
reserves primarily related to the exit of our baseband product area.

(8)

We recorded $14.2 million in share-based compensation expense upon the adoption of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS
123(R)”) during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. Approximately $2.2 million, $6.3 million and $5.7
million were included in cost of goods sold, research and development expense and selling, general and
administrative expense, respectively.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should
be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear
elsewhere in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

. In addition to historical information, the following
discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual
results may differ substantially and adversely from those referred to herein due to a number of
factors, including but not limited to those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an innovator of high performance analog
and mixed signal semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. The Company’s power amplifiers,
front-end modules and direct conversion radios are at the heart of many of today’s leading-edge
multimedia handsets. Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks also offers a diverse portfolio of
linear products that support automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, industrial and medical
applications.



The wireless communications semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by rapid
technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short
product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, average
selling prices of established products have generally declined over time and this trend is expected
to continue in the future. Our operating results have been, and our operating results may continue
to be, negatively affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns
due to a number of factors, such as changes in demand for end-user equipment, the timing of the
receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders, the gain or loss of significant
customers, market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products, our ability to develop,
introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, availability and cost of
products from suppliers, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the
mix of products produced and sold, intellectual property disputes, the timing and extent of product
development costs and general economic conditions. In addition, we may discover from time to time
defects in our products after they have been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty claims,
replace products, or pay costs associated with the recall of a customer’s products containing our
parts.

BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

At the end of the fourth fiscal quarter, Skyworks decided to immediately cease its baseband
operations in order to sharpen focus on its high growth core business. Skyworks’ baseband product
area developed complete reference designs, incorporating the digital signal processor and software
functionality, in support of tier-three handset suppliers. This initiative was complex, research
and development intensive and generated substantial operating losses. As tier-one OEMs
increasingly dominate the landscape, the addressable market for the Company’s baseband solutions
had significantly contracted. As a result of this decision, Skyworks restructured its business to
focus on its core analog and RF product markets.

To address the wireless industry opportunities discussed above and to execute our strategy, we have
aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. We believe
we possess a broad technology capability and one of the most complete wireless communications
product portfolios that, when coupled with key customer relationships with all major handset
manufacturers, positions us well to meet industry needs. Below are just a few examples from each of
our product portfolios.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Skyworks was formed through the merger
(“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant  Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc.
(“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16,
2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and among Alpha Industries, Inc., Conexant
Systems, Inc. and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). For purposes of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are
collectively referred to as “Washington/Mexicali.” Shortly
thereafter, Alpha, which was incorporated in Delaware in 1962, changed its corporate
name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2006 consisted of 52
weeks and ended on September 29, 2006, and fiscal years 2005 and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks
and ended on September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 29, 2006, SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 AND OCTOBER 1, 2004

The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net
revenues for the fiscal years below:




Net revenues

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of goods sold

66.1

61.2

60.1

Gross margin

33.9

38.8

39.9






Operating expenses:

Research and development

21.2

19.2

19.5

Selling, general and administrative

17.6

13.0

12.4

Amortization of intangible assets

0.3

0.3

0.4

Restructuring and special charges

3.5

—

2.2

Total operating expenses

42.6

32.5

34.5

Operating income (loss)

(8.7

)

6.3

5.4

Interest expense

(1.9

)

(1.8

)

(2.3

)

Other income, net

1.1

0.7

0.2

Income (loss) before income taxes

(9.5

)

5.2

3.3

Provision for income taxes

2.0

2.0

0.5

Net income (loss)

(11.5

)%

3.2

%

2.8

%

GENERAL

During fiscal 2006, certain key factors contributed to our overall results of operations and cash
flows from operations. More specifically:

SHARED-BASED PAYMENTS

We grant stock options to purchase our common stock to our employees and directors under our stock
option plans. We also grant restricted stock to certain key employees, which may have service,
market or performance based conditions attached, and we also granted performance shares to certain
of our employees during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. Eligible employees can also
purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or
the last day of the offering period under our employee stock purchase plan. The benefits provided
under these plans are share-based payments subject to the provisions of revised Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS 123(R)”), “Share-Based Payment.”
Effective October



1, 2005, we use the fair value method to apply the provisions of SFAS 123(R) with a modified
prospective application which provides for certain changes to the method for valuing share-based
compensation. The valuation provisions of SFAS 123(R) apply to new awards and to awards that are
outstanding on the effective date and subsequently modified or cancelled. Under the modified
prospective application, prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Share-based
compensation expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 was
$14.2 million. At September 29, 2006, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to
non-vested stock options granted prior to that date was $20.1 million. The weighted average period
over which the unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to non-vested stock options will
be recognized is 1.8 years. Stock options, before forfeitures and cancellations, granted during
the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 represented 2.4% of the Company’s outstanding shares as of
September 29, 2006.

At September 29, 2006, total unrecognized estimated compensation for restricted stock (nonvested
awards) was $4.1 million.

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to retain its method of valuation for share-based
awards granted beginning in fiscal 2006 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
(“Black-Scholes model”) which was also previously used for the Company’s pro forma information
required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS 123”), “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation”. The Company’s determination of fair value of share-based payment awards
on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well
as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables
include, but are not limited to the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the
awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.

If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS 123(R) in
future periods, the compensation expense that we record under SFAS 123(R) may differ significantly
from what we have recorded in the current period. Therefore, we believe it is important for
investors to be aware of the high degree of subjectivity involved when using option-pricing models
to estimate share-based compensation under SFAS 123(R). Option-pricing models were developed for use
in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions, are fully
transferable and do not cause dilution. Certain share-based payments, such as employee stock
options, may expire worthless or otherwise result in zero intrinsic value as compared to the fair
values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements.
Alternatively, value may be realized from these instruments that are significantly in excess of the
fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. There
is currently no market-based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and
accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models, nor is there a means to compare and
adjust the estimates to actual values. Although the fair value of employee share-based awards is
determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (“SAB 107”), “Interaction Between FASB Statement No. 123(R), and
Certain SEC Rules and Regulations Regarding the Valuation of Share-Based Payment Arrangements for
Public Companies” using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value
observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.

Estimates of share-based compensation expenses are significant to our financial statements, but
these expenses are based on option valuation models and will never result in the payment of cash by
us. For this reason, and because we do not view share-based compensation as related to our
operational performance, we exclude estimated share-based compensation expense when evaluating the
business performance of our operations.

The guidance in SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 is relatively new, and best practices are still evolving. The
application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time.
There are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will
adopt different valuation models in the future. This may result in a lack of consistency in future
periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share-based payments. It may also result
in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions.

Theoretical valuation models and market-based methods are evolving and may result in lower or
higher fair value estimates for share-based compensation. The timing, readiness, adoption, general
acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. Sophisticated mathematical
models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses,
correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing
for adequacy of internal controls. Market-based methods are emerging that, if employed



by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing
administrative expenses. The uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may
outweigh the benefits to investors.

We did not modify any of our outstanding share options prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) with
the exception of the acceleration of certain of our unvested “out of the money” stock options on
September 2, 2005. Specifically, we accelerated the vesting of options previously awarded to
employees and officers that had an exercise price per share over $9.00 and were granted prior to
November 10, 2004. As a result of this action, options to purchase approximately 3.8 million shares
of Skyworks common stock became immediately exercisable. The decision to accelerate vesting of
these options was accounted for under APB Opinion Number 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” and made to avoid recognizing compensation cost of approximately $21.0 million
associated with certain “out-of-the-money” options in the statement of operations in future
financial statements upon the effectiveness of SFAS 123(R). The decision to not accelerate the
vesting of stock options with an exercise price under $9.01, as well as those granted after
November 9, 2004, balanced our desire to manage compensation expense with our need to continue to
motivate and retain employees. The options accelerated were “out-of-the money” by a minimum of
$1.49 per share, based on the closing market price of Skyworks’ common stock on September 2, 2005.

During fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, we elected to gradually transition more of our share-based
compensation awards to restricted stock (with service, market or performance based conditions) from
traditional stock options.

We granted 222,000 performance units during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, pursuant to
which recipients will receive Skyworks common stock if certain milestones are achieved. Of the
222,000 performance units, we issued 49,000 shares in fiscal 2006 as a result of milestone
achievement. In addition, certain other milestones were deemed to be highly probable of
achievement, thus we recorded total compensation expense of $0.3 million in fiscal 2006.

We used an arithmetic average of historical volatility and implied volatility to calculate our
expected volatility at September 29, 2006. Historical volatility was determined by calculating the
mean reversion of the daily-adjusted closing stock price over the past 4.25 years of our existence
(post-Merger). The implied volatility was calculated by analyzing the 52-week minimum and maximum
prices of publicly traded call options on our common stock. We concluded that an arithmetic average
of these two calculations provided for the most reasonable estimate of expected volatility under
the guidance of SFAS 123(R). Utilizing this methodology results in a volatility of 59.27% at
September 29, 2006.

The expected life of employee stock options represents a calculation based upon the historical
exercise experience of our stock options over the 4.25 years from June 2002 (post-Merger) to
September 29, 2006. We determined that we had two populations with unique exercise behavior. These
populations included stock options with a contractual life of 7 years and 10 years, respectively.
This methodology results in an expected term calculation of 4.42 and 5.84 years, respectively.

The risk-free interest rate is based on the yield curve of U.S. Treasury strip securities for a
period consistent with the contractual life of the option in effect at the time of grant
(weighted-average of 4.55% at September 29, 2006).

The post-vesting forfeiture rate is estimated using historical option cancellation information
(weighted-average of 8.59% at September 29, 2006).

NET REVENUES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Net revenues

$

773,750

(2.4

)%

$

792,371

1.1

%

$

784,023

We market and sell our semiconductor products (including power amplifiers, front-end modules, radio
solutions and linear products among others) to top tier OEMs of communication electronics products,
third-party Original Design Manufacturers (“ODMs”) and contract manufacturers, and indirectly
through electronic components distributors.



Revenues from our core Mobile Platforms and Linear product areas increased by $77.9 million, or
11.9%, from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006. Overall, net revenues decreased slightly in fiscal 2006
when compared to fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of a decrease in baseband revenues of $77.1
million (a 62.7% decrease). Additionally, we recorded a charge against revenue of $5.0 million in
fiscal 2006 relating to the exit of the baseband product area in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
Units sold in our core product areas increased by 33.2% somewhat offset by an overall average
selling price decline of approximately 10% in our Linear Product area and approximately 2% in our
Mobile Platforms product area.

Net revenues increased slightly overall in fiscal 2005 when compared to fiscal 2004 primarily as a
result of increased demand in our Mobile Platform product area. Revenues in aggregate dollars from
our highly integrated complex products more than doubled between fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005. This
increase in revenues was partially offset by an overall decrease in average selling prices in
nearly all of our product areas during these periods. Additionally, baseband revenues in aggregate
dollars declined 13.9% and revenues from test and assembly declined by 62.7% due to the termination
of the test and assembly services arrangement with Conexant. Our revenues from the test and
assembly business were $37.8 million in fiscal 2004 and $14.1 million in fiscal 2005. We fulfilled
our manufacturing support obligation to Conexant on June 30, 2005.

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region and customer concentration for each of
the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

GROSS PROFIT

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Gross profit

$

262,679

(14.7

)%

$

307,772

(1.7

)%

$

313,216

% of net revenues

33.9

%

38.8

%

39.9

%

Gross profit represents net revenues less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily
of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation) associated with product
manufacturing, royalty and other intellectual property costs and sustaining engineering expenses
pertaining to products sold.

Gross profit for fiscal 2006 decreased by $45.1 million from approximately $307.8 million in fiscal
2005 and gross profit margin decreased to 33.9% from 38.8% in fiscal 2005. Gross profit on our core
Mobile Platforms and Linear product areas actually increased in aggregate dollars in fiscal 2006 as
compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales was
primarily due to the $23.3 million (approximately 50% of the decrease in aggregate dollars) in
inventory related charges associated with the exit of the baseband product area in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2006. Additionally, the decline in baseband product area revenues in fiscal 2006
as compared to fiscal 2005 of $77.1 million resulted in an approximate decline in contribution
margin of $38.6 million. We also incurred approximately $2.2 million in share-based compensation
expense in cost of goods sold in fiscal 2006 related to our adoption of SFAS 123(R). No share-based
compensation expense was recorded in fiscal 2005 in cost of goods sold.

Gross profit for fiscal 2005 decreased by $5.4 million from approximately $313.2 million in fiscal
2004, and gross profit margin decreased from 39.9% to 38.8% from fiscal 2004. The decrease in both
absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales was primarily due to 1) continued additional costs
associated with the ongoing launch of a number of our more highly integrated products, 2) an
unfavorable shift in product mix in the fourth fiscal quarter, and 3) a one time payment to a
customer of $3.2 million in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005. A decline in the assembly and test
services provided to Conexant in conjunction with fixed overhead and manufacturing costs in the
assembly and test area also contributed to the decreased gross profit margin between fiscal 2005
and fiscal 2004.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Research and development

$

164,106

7.8

%

$

152,215

(0.3

)%

$

152,633

% of net revenues

21.2

%

19.2

%

19.5

%

Research and development expenses consist principally of direct personnel costs, costs for
pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, and design and test tool costs.

Although research and development expenses in fiscal 2006 increased when compared to fiscal 2005,
we anticipate that we will achieve a reduction in research and development costs in future periods
due to our exit of the baseband product area in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The
aforementioned increase is primarily attributable to increased labor and benefit costs incurred to
support our next generation multimode radios and precision analog semiconductors. We anticipate
continued acceleration in the development and commercialization of our Helios EDGE (Enhanced Data
rates for Global Evolution) radio, CDMA (“Code Division Multiple Access”) solutions and next
generation front-end modules and power amplifiers with several of our top customers in fiscal 2007.
The increase in research and development costs primarily supports new product introductions, as
well as new product development, focused on diversifying our product portfolio within our Linear
Products area outside of the cellular handset market. We also incurred $6.3 million in research
and development related share-based compensation expense in fiscal 2006 related to our adoption of
SFAS 123(R). No research and development related share-based compensation expense was recorded in
fiscal 2005.

Research and development expenses in fiscal 2005 declined slightly when compared to fiscal 2004.
The decline is principally due to decreased incentive compensation costs. We also reduced research
and development expenditures in the baseband product area during this period as we focused our
product development on core front-end modules, RF subsystems, infrastructure and next-generation
solutions.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Selling, general and administrative

$

135,801

31.8

%

$

103,070

5.7

%

$

97,522

% of net revenues

17.6

%

13.0

%

12.4

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses include personnel costs (legal, accounting, treasury,
human resources, information systems, customer service, etc.), bad debt expense, sales
representative commissions, advertising and other marketing costs.

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
2005 is principally due to our recording of $35.1 million in bad debt expense in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2006. Specifically, we recorded charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an
Asian component distributor, on accounts receivable associated with our baseband products. We also
incurred $5.7 million in selling, general and administrative related share-based compensation
expense in 2006 related to our adoption of SFAS 123(R). The increased
bad debt and SFAS 123(R)
expenses were partially offset by reductions in legal expenses incurred to protect our intellectual
property portfolio.

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2005, as compared to fiscal
2004 is primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense of $4.8 million between fiscal 2005 and
fiscal 2004. Additionally, costs incurred to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) contributed to the increase. The increased bad debt
expense and Sarbanes-Oxley fees were partially offset by reductions in incentive compensation costs
and legal costs due to the settlement of an intellectual property lawsuit.



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND WARRANTS

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Amortization

$

2,144

(8.9

)%

$

2,354

(22.6

)%

$

3,043

% of net revenues

0.3

%

0.3

%

0.4

%

In 2002, we recorded $36.4 million of intangible assets related to the Merger consisting of
developed technology, customer relationships and a trademark. These assets are principally being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a 10-year period. Amortization expense in fiscal 2006,
2005, and 2004 primarily represents the amortization of these intangible assets.

Amortization expense on intangible assets declined in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005, is
primarily due to the recognition of amortization expense on a warrant of $0.2 million in fiscal
2005. The warrant expired without being exercised on January 20, 2005.

The decrease in amortization expense on intangible assets between fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 is
the result of $0.8 million in amortization expense recognized on certain warrants in 2004, while
only $0.2 million was recognized in fiscal 2005.

For additional information regarding goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 6 of Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Restructuring and special charges

$

26,955

100.0

%

$

—

(100.0

)%

$

17,366

% of net revenues

3.5

%

0.0

%

2.2

%

No special charges were recorded in fiscal 2005.

Restructuring and special charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring
activities, as follows:

2006 RESTRUCTURING CHARGES, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND SPECIAL CHARGES

On September 29, 2006, we exited our baseband product area in order to focus on our core business
encompassing linear products, radio solutions, power amplifiers and front-end modules. We recorded
various charges associated with this action. We recorded charges which included the following:

We recorded $13.1 million related to severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the write-down
of technology licenses and design software, $4.2 million related to the impairment of certain
long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges. These charges total $27.0 million and
are recorded in restructuring and special charges.

We anticipate recording additional restructuring charges of approximately $7.0 million related to
the exit of the baseband product area in the first fiscal quarter of 2007. These charges primarily
relate to costs to exit certain operating leases and the write down of a technology license.



2004 RESTRUCTURING CHARGES, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND SPECIAL CHARGES

During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we recorded a $13.2 million charge primarily related to
the impairment of obsolete baseband technology licenses that were established prior to the Merger.
The impairment charge was based on a recoverability analysis prepared by management in response to
the decision to discontinue certain products and the related impact on its current and projected
outlook. Management believed these factors indicated that the carrying value of the related assets
(intangible assets, machinery and equipment) was impaired and that an impairment analysis should be
performed. In performing the analysis for recoverability, management estimated the future cash
flows expected to result from these products (salvage value). Since the estimated undiscounted cash
flows were less than the carrying value of the related assets, it was concluded that an impairment
loss should be recognized. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the impairment charge was determined by comparing the estimated
fair value of the related assets to their carrying value. The write down established a new cost
basis for the impaired assets.

During fiscal 2004, we consolidated baseband product area software design centers in an effort to
improve our overall time-to market for next-generation multimedia systems development. These
actions aligned our structure with our current business environment. We implemented reductions in
force at three remote facilities and recorded restructuring charges of approximately $4.2 million
for costs related to severance benefits for affected employees and lease obligations. All amounts
accrued for these actions have been paid as of September 29, 2006.

For additional information regarding restructuring charges and liability balances, see Note 14 of
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INTEREST EXPENSE

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Interest expense

$

14,797

1.4

%

$

14,597

(18.7

)%

$

17,947

% of net revenues

1.9

%

1.8

%

2.3

%

Interest expense is comprised principally of payments in connection with the $50.0 million credit
facility between Skyworks USA, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and Wachovia Bank, N.A.
(“Facility Agreement”) and the Company’s 4.75% convertible subordinated notes (the “Junior Notes”).

Interest expense increased for fiscal 2006 as compared to the previous year primarily due to a
higher interest rate paid on the Facility Agreement resulting from an increase in LIBOR during such
period, as well as an increase in the amortization of capitalized deferred financing costs of $0.6
million due to the retirement of $50.7 million of our Junior Notes. This was partially offset by a
decrease in required interest payments due to the retirement of $50.7 million of our Junior Notes
in fiscal 2006.

The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2005, when compared to fiscal 2004 is due to the
conversion of our $45 million of senior subordinated notes into shares of our common stock during
fiscal 2004. Specifically, we recorded $12.5 million in interest expense and deferred financing
costs amortization on our $230 million Junior notes payable and $2.1 million in interest expense on
our $50 million line of credit facility.

For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see Note 7 of Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OTHER INCOME, NET

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Other income, net

$

8,350

53.1

%

$

5,453

222.5

%

$

1,691

% of net revenues

1.1

%

0.7

%

0.2

%



Other income, net is comprised primarily of interest income on invested cash balances, other
non-operating income and expense items and foreign exchange gains/losses.

The increase in other income, net between fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, as well as between fiscal
2004 and fiscal 2005 is primarily due to an increase in interest income on invested cash balances
as a result of increased interest rates earned on our auction rate securities.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)


Change


Change


Provision for income taxes

$

15,378

0.0

%

$

15,378

286.0

%

$

3,984

% of net revenues

2.0

%

2.0

%

0.5

%

Based upon our history of operating losses, management has determined that it is more likely than
not that historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized except for certain
future deductions associated with our foreign operations. Consequently, no United States income tax
benefit has been recognized for the Company’s United States operating losses. As of September 29,
2006, we have established a valuation allowance against all of our net United States deferred tax
assets. Deferred tax assets have been recognized for foreign operations when management believes
that is more likely than not that they will be recovered.

During fiscal 2006 the carrying value of our gross deferred tax assets increased by $38.8 million.
This increase is primarily due to charges included in United States
income related to the exit of our baseband product area that were
not tax benefited.

The provision for income taxes for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 consists of approximately $(0.1)
million and $11.1 million, respectively, of United States income taxes. The credit of $(0.1)
million represents a favorable adjustment between fiscal 2005’s tax provision and tax return
liability. The provision for income tax for fiscal 2005 represents a charge reducing the carrying
value of goodwill.

In addition, the provision for income taxes for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 consists of foreign
income taxes of $15.4 million, $4.9 million, and $4.0 million, respectively. In fiscal 2006, the
Company completed a legal reorganization of its Mexico operations to reduce its future operating
costs. In connection with this reorganization, ownership of machinery and equipment used in
Mexico’s operations was transferred to a United States subsidiary. In 2002, the Company recorded a
tax benefit of approximately $23.0 million related to the impairment of this equipment. The
carrying value of the deferred tax asset related to these assets was $16.3 million as of September
30, 2005. Consequently, the fiscal 2006 foreign tax provision includes the write off of this
deferred tax asset, reduced by the establishment of a $1.7 million deferred tax charge in
connection with this reorganization. The deferred tax asset allowable for U.S. tax purposes is
included in the Company’s United States deferred tax assets subject to a valuation allowance.

The fiscal year 2005 foreign tax provision included a charge of $2.2 million resulting from a
reduction of the statutory income tax rate in Mexico. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date. A charge of $2.3 million related to normal amortization of the tax benefit for tax
over book depreciation. A favorable foreign translation adjustment of $0.8 million increased the
deferred tax asset’s carrying value. In addition, the provision for income taxes for fiscal 2006,
2005 and 2004 consists of foreign income taxes incurred by foreign operations.

No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign income taxes related to
approximately $12.1 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have been or
are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United States
federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not permanently
reinvested.



In fiscal 2005, we repatriated approximately $25.6 million of earnings, which were not subject
to Mexican withholding tax and could be applied against United States net operating loss
carryforwards, resulting in no United States income tax. We provide for United States income tax
on current earnings attributable to our operations in Mexico.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

(dollars in thousands)




Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

$116,522

$123,505

$161,506

Net cash provided by operating activities

27,226

54,197

91,913

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

42,383

(66,424

)

(141,044

)

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(49,382

)

5,244

11,130

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$136,749

$116,522

$123,505

FISCAL 2006

Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments along with our ability to access financial markets for additional debt or equity
financing, will allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures,
debt obligations (to replace existing or maturing debt instruments), purchase obligations, working
capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you
that the capital required to fund these expenses will be available in the future. In addition, any
strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require
additional capital resources. If we are unable to obtain enough capital to meet our capital needs
on a timely basis or at all, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected.

Our cash
and cash equivalent balances increased by $20.2 million to $136.7 million at September 29,
2006 from $116.5 million at September 30, 2005. Cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term
investments decreased by $64.7 million to $171.2 million at September 29, 2006 from $235.9 million
at September 30, 2005. The number of days sales outstanding for the fiscal year ended September 29,
2006 decreased to 73 from 82 as compared to fiscal 2005 partially due to the recording of allowance
for doubtful accounts relating to the exit of our baseband product area.

During fiscal 2006, we generated $27.2 million in cash from operating activities. Offsetting these
positive operating cash flows were net losses of $88.2 million which included total charges
incurred to exit our baseband product area. We also incurred multiple non-cash charges (e.g.,
depreciation, amortization, contribution of common shares to savings and retirement plans,
share-based compensation expense, non-cash restructuring expense, asset impairment charges and
provision for deferred income taxes) totaling $75.7 million. In fiscal 2006, we also experienced
an increase in other accrued liabilities and expenses of $16.0 million (principally related to
restructuring accruals in the fourth fiscal quarter) and a decrease in deferred tax assets of $16.5
million and an increase of $31.2 million in the provision for losses on accounts receivable
(principally related to the reserves recorded on two baseband customers). These increases were
offset by uses of cash caused by increases of $18.2 million in accounts receivable and $3.5 million
in inventory. However, on a net basis accounts receivable actually declined by $13.0 million when
accounting for the impact of the afore-mentioned $31.2 million increase in the provision for losses
on accounts receivable.

During fiscal 2006, we generated $42.4 million in cash from investing activities. Cash provided by
investing activities in fiscal 2006 consisted of net proceeds of $85.2 million from the sale of
auction rate securities and proceeds received from the sale of a building and land of $6.6 million.
Capital expenditures of $49.4 million offset these amounts and were primarily related to the
purchase of equipment utilized to support an anticipated expanded level of highly integrated
product demand requiring more technologically enhanced manufacturing capacity.



The proceeds from the net sales of our auction rate securities were utilized, in part, to retire $50.7
million of our Junior Notes. We believe a focused program of capital expenditures will be required
to sustain our current manufacturing capabilities. Future capital expenditures will be funded by
the generation of positive cash flows from operations. We may also consider acquisition
opportunities to extend our technology portfolio and design expertise and to expand our product
offerings.

During
fiscal 2006, we utilized $49.4 million in cash from financing activities. This principally
resulted from the retirement of $50.7 million in our Junior Notes and the pledge of $0.3 million in
cash on a new insurance policy offset by stock option exercises of $1.7 million. As of September
29, 2006, our Facility Agreement of $50.0 million is fully drawn. Our Junior Notes of approximately
$179.3 million become due in November 2007. We paid approximately $13.7 million in interest to
service this debt during fiscal 2006. For additional information regarding our borrowing
arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In connection with the exit of the baseband product area, we anticipate making cash payments of
approximately $25.6 million in future periods. We anticipate the majority of these payments will be
remitted in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2007. We expect our existing sources of
liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term investments,
will be sufficient to fund these costs associated with the exit of our baseband product area.

FISCAL 2005

During fiscal 2005, we generated $54.2 million in cash from operating activities. This was
principally attributable to increased revenues and lower overall operating expenses combined with
reduced interest expense and higher other income (primarily interest income). Non-cash charges
(including depreciation, charge in lieu of income tax expense, amortization and contribution of
common shares to savings and retirement plans) totaled $62.8 million. This was offset by a
reduction in liabilities of $21.1 million primarily related to payment of prior year incentive
compensation. Annualized inventory turns for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 were 6.2. Inventory
management remained an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels
to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly
changing technology and customer requirements. Other decreases to cash provided by operating
activities resulted from a net increase in our receivable balances of $18.8 million offset by bad
debt provisions of $5.1 million. The increase in accounts receivable balances is due to the timing
and collection of customer receivables. The timing of purchasing patterns by our customers in our
industry affects the timing of our revenue recognition and our collections and is one of the
principal reasons for the increase in days sales outstanding from 66 at the end of fiscal 2004 to
82 at the end of fiscal 2005.

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended September 30, 2005 consisted of $28.3 million
of net investments in auction rate securities and capital expenditures of $38.1 million.

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2005, consisted of $5.2
million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. There were no changes to the
long-term and short-term debt balances in fiscal 2005.

FISCAL 2004

During fiscal 2004 we focused our efforts on both cash and inventory management. Days sales
outstanding in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 was 66. Annualized inventory turns for the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2004 were 6.6. During fiscal 2004, we also converted our 15 percent convertible
senior subordinated notes into shares of our common stock, ultimately reducing our future cash
outflows and expenses related to the interest incurred on these senior subordinated notes.

In fiscal 2004, we generated $91.9 million in cash from operating activities. This was principally
attributable to net revenues in fiscal 2004 of $784.0 million primarily resulting from increased
demand for our wireless product portfolio. More specifically, we had launched a number of more
highly integrated product offerings, added to our customer base and expanded our geographical
market presence. In addition, we reduced research and development expenses and selling, general and
administrative expense as a percentage of net revenues to 31.9% in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2004,
we invested $60.0 million in capital equipment primarily related to the design of new highly



integrated products and processes, enabling us to address new opportunities and to meet our
customers’ demands. In fiscal 2004 we made net investments of
approximately $81.0 million in
short-term auction rate securities.

Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2004 primarily represents an increase in borrowings
under our $50.0 million credit facility secured by the purchased accounts receivable with Wachovia
Bank, N.A.

CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS

Following is a summary of our contractual payment obligations for consolidated debt, purchase
agreements, operating leases, other commitments and long-term liabilities at September 29, 2006
(see Notes 7 and 11 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), in thousands:

Payments Due By Period

Less Than 1

Obligation

Total

Year

1-3 years

3-5 Years

Thereafter(1)

Long-Term Debt
Obligations

$

179,335

$

—

$

179,335

$

—

$

—

Other
Commitments

12,669

6,681

5,988

—

—

Operating Lease
Obligations

28,132

7,600

12,944

6,924


Purchase
Obligations

—

—

—

—

—

Other Long-Term Liabilities

6,448




4,551

$

226,584

$

14,760

$

199,197

$

7,412

$

5,215

(1)

Other Long-Term Liabilities includes $3.7 million of Executive Deferred Compensation
for which there is a corresponding long term asset.

Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments along with our ability to access financial markets for additional debt or equity
financing, will allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures,
debt obligations (to replace existing or maturing debt instruments), purchase obligations, working
capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you
that the capital required to fund these expenses will be available in the future. In addition, any
strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require
additional capital resources. If we are unable to obtain enough capital to meet our capital needs
on a timely basis or at all, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various
other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. To the extent actual results differ from those estimates, our
future results of operations may be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies
affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees and
intellectual property is recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other criteria of
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, (“Revenue Recognition”) have been met. We ship product on
consignment to certain customers and only recognize revenue when the customer notifies us that the
inventory has been consumed. Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings
process is incomplete. Certain product sales are made to electronic component distributors under
agreements allowing for price protection and/or a right of return on unsold products. A reserve for



sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific
identification of an event necessitating a reserve.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
required.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or market.
The Company provides for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. The recoverability of inventories is assessed through an
on-going review of inventory levels in relation to sales backlog and forecasts, product marketing
plans and product life cycles. When the inventory on hand exceeds the foreseeable demand (generally
in excess of twelve months), the value of such inventory that is not expected to be sold at the
time of the review is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of historical cost
over estimated realizable value (generally zero).

Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the
excess inventory. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Some or all of the inventories that
have been written-down may be retained and made available for sale. In the event that actual demand
is higher than originally projected, a portion of these inventories may be able to be sold in the
future. Inventories that have been written-down and are identified as obsolete are generally
scrapped.

SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

On October 1, 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) which requires the measurement and
recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and
directors including employee stock options, employee stock purchases related to the Company’s 2002
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, restricted stock and other special equity awards based on estimated
fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company’s previous accounting under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”) for periods beginning
in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107, “Share Based Payment” (“SAB 107”), providing interpretative guidance relating to
SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R).

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires
the application of the applicable accounting standard as of October 1, 2005, the first day of the
Company’s fiscal year 2006.

The
Company’s practice in general is to issue shares of common stock
upon exercise or settlement of options and to issue shares in
connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
from previously unissued shares.

Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion
of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards
granted on or before, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation expense
for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date
fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As share-based compensation
expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended September
29, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated
forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.



Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to retain its method of valuation for share-based
awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes model”) which was also
previously used for the Company’s pro forma information required under SFAS 123. The Company’s
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to;
the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected
employee stock option exercise behaviors.

SFAS 123(R) requires the Company to evaluate and periodically validate several
assumptions in conjunction with calculating share-based compensation expense.
These assumptions include the expected life of a stock option or other equity based award, expected
volatility, pre-vesting forfeiture, risk free rate and expected dividend yield. All of these
assumptions affect to one degree or another, the valuation of the Company’s equity based
awards or the recognition of the resulting share-based compensation
expense. The most significant assumptions in the Company’s
calculations are described below.

Expected Life of an Option or other Equity Based Award

Since employee options are non-transferable, SFAS 123(R) allows the use of an expected life to more
accurately estimate the value of an employee stock option rather than using the full contractual
term.

The vesting of the majority of the Company’s stock options are graded over four years (25% at each
anniversary) and the contractual term is either 7 years or 10 years. The Company analyzed its
historical exercise experience and exercise behavior by job group. The Company analyzed the
following three exercise metrics: exercise at full vesting, exercise at midpoint in the contractual
life and exercise at the end of the full contractual term. The
Company chose the mid-point alternative as the estimate which most
closely approximated actual exercise experience of its employee
population. The valuation and resulting share-based compensation expense recorded is sensitive to
what alternative is chosen and the choice of another alternative in the future could result in
a material difference in the amount of share-based compensation expense recorded in a reporting
period.

Expected Volatility

Expected volatility is a statistical measure of the amount by which a stock price is expected to
fluctuate during a period. SFAS 123(R) does not specify a method for estimating expected
volatility; instead it provides a list of factors that should be considered when estimating
volatility: historical volatility that is generally commensurate with the expected option life,
implied volatilities, the length of time a stock has been publicly traded, regular intervals for
price observations, corporate and capital structure and the possibility of mean reversion. The
Company analyzed its volatility history and determined that the selection of a weighting of 50% to
historical volatility and 50% to implied volatility (as measured by examining the underlying
volatility in the open market of publicly traded call options) would provide the best estimate of
expected future volatility of the stock price. The selection of another methodology to calculate
volatility or even a different weighting between implied volatility and historical volatility could
materially impact the valuation of stock options and other equity based awards and the resulting
amount of share-based compensation expense recorded in a reporting period.

Pre-Vesting Forfeiture

SFAS 123(R) specifies that initial accruals of share-based compensation expense should be based on
the estimated number of instruments for which the requisite service is expected to be rendered.
The Company examined its options forfeiture history and computed an
average annualized forfeiture percentage. The Company determined that a weighted average of
historical annualized forfeitures is the best estimate of future actual forfeiture experience.
The application of a different methodology for calculating estimated
forfeitures could materially
impact the amount of
share-based compensation expense recorded in a reporting period.



VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which excludes
goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets.” Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset or asset group may
not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition. The estimate
of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future
operating performance. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual
cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to the
Company’s business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset or asset group, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds
the fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested at least annually for impairment in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The
goodwill and other intangible asset impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the
impairment analysis compares the Company’s fair value to its net book value to determine if there
is an indicator of impairment. In determining fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of
several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of
fair value. The Company calculates fair value using the average market price of its common stock
over a seven-day period surrounding the annual impairment testing
date of the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter and the number of
shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the annual impairment test (the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter). Step two of
the analysis compares the implied fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to its
carrying amount in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for a business combination. If
the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds its implied fair value, an
impairment loss is recognized equal to that excess. We test our goodwill and other intangible
assets for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim
periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible
assets may be impaired. Indicators such as unexpected adverse business conditions, economic
factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel, and
acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. This method also requires the
recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that
realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

The carrying value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able
to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and
assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Management
evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation
allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event that the Company was to determine that it would be able
to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an
adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of
goodwill in the period such determination was made.



It was the Company’s intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of all its
foreign subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, “Accounting for
Income Taxes — Special Areas”. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company
reversed its policy of permanently reinvesting the earnings of its Mexican business. This policy
reversal increased the 2005 tax provision by $9.0 million. For the fiscal year ended September 29,
2006, U.S. income tax was provided on current earnings attributable to our operations in Mexico. No
provision has been made for U.S. federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes that would be
due upon the actual or deemed distribution of undistributed earnings of the other foreign
subsidiaries, which have been, or are intended to be, permanently reinvested.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the
APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero and the ending APIC pool balance at September 29, 2006
remains zero.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory
Costs — an amendment to APB No. 23, Chapter 4” (“SFAS No. 151”). The amendments made by SFAS No.
151 clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted
materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges and require the allocation of
fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities.
The guidance is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2005. The Company adopted SFAS No. 151 on October 1, 2005 and it did not have a material impact on
its financial statements during fiscal 2006.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets—an amendment of
APB Opinion No. 29” (“SFAS No. 153”). The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for
Nonmonetary Transactions” (“APB No. 29”) is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary
assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. The guidance in APB No.
29, however, included certain exceptions to that principle. SFAS No. 153 amends APB No. 29 to
eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with
a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS
No. 153 is effective for such exchange transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after
June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS No. 153 on October 1, 2005 and it did not have a material
impact on its financial statements during fiscal 2006.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3” (“SFAS No. 154”). This Statement replaces APB
Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes” and FASB Statement No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements—an amendment of APB Opinion No. 28,” and also changes the requirements
for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to
all voluntary changes in an accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an
accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific
transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those
provisions should be followed. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and error
corrections occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS
No. 154 on September 30, 2005 and it did not have a material effect on its financial statements
during fiscal 2006.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on



the APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero.

In March 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF Issue No. 04-13, “Accounting for
Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty” (“EITF 04-13”). EITF 04-13 clarifies
the circumstances under which two or more transactions involving inventory with the same
counterparty should be viewed as a single nonmonetary transaction. In addition the EITF reached a
consensus that there are circumstances under which nonmonetary exchanges of inventory within the
same line of business should be recognized at fair value. Issue 04-13 is effective for new
arrangements entered into in reporting periods beginning after March 15, 2006. The Company adopted
the provisions of EITF 04-13 in the three month period ended June 30, 2006 and it did not have a
material impact on its financial statements.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”), which clarifies the accounting and
disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions, as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in
practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting
for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The Company expects to adopt FIN48 on September 29, 2007, the first day of fiscal 2008 and
has not yet determined the impact this interpretation will have on our results from operations or
financial position.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”) which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim
periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact this FASB will
have on our results from operations or financial position.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS
158”) which requires an employer to: (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset
for a plan’s overfunded status or a liability for a plan’s underfunded status; (b) measure a plan’s
assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer’s fiscal
year; and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in
the year in which the changes occur. Those changes will be reported in other comprehensive income.
The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements
are effective as of the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to
measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end
statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008,
although earlier adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined the impact that SFAS 158
will have on our results from operations or financial position.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
“Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”), which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. The
Company does not expect the impact of SAB 108 will be material to its financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

Inflation did not have a material impact upon our results of operations during the three-year
period ended September 29, 2006.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

We are subject to market risks, such as changes in currency and interest rates that arise from
normal business operation. Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, short-term debt and long-term debt. Our main investment objective is the preservation
of investment capital. Consequently, we invest



with only high-credit-quality issuers and we limit
the amount of our credit exposure to any one issuer. We do not use derivative instruments for
speculative or investment purposes.

Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short
maturities of these instruments. As of September 29, 2006, the carrying value of our cash and cash
equivalents approximates fair value.

Our short-term debt primarily consists of borrowings under our credit facility with Wachovia Bank,
N.A. As of September 29, 2006, we had borrowings of $50.0 million outstanding under this credit
facility. Interest related to our short-term debt is at LIBOR plus 0.4% and was approximately 5.7%
at September 29, 2006. Consequently, we do not have significant cash flow exposure on our
short-term debt.

We issued fixed-rate debt, which is convertible into our common stock at a predetermined conversion
price. Convertible debt has characteristics that give rise to both interest-rate risk and market
risk because the fair value of the convertible security is affected by both the current
interest-rate environment and the price of the underlying common stock. For the year ended
September 29, 2006, our convertible debt, on an if-converted basis, was not dilutive and, as a
result, had no impact on our net income (loss) per share (assuming dilution). In future periods,
the debt may be converted, or the if-converted method may be dilutive and net income per share
(assuming dilution) would be reduced. Our long-term debt consists of $179.3 million of 4.75%
unsecured convertible subordinated notes due November 2007. We do not believe that we have
significant cash flow exposure on our long-term debt.

Based on our overall evaluation of our market risk exposures from all of our financial instruments
at September 29, 2006, a near-term change in interest rates would not materially affect our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is primarily the result of foreign
subsidiaries domiciled in various foreign countries. We do not currently use financial derivative
instruments to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our foreign subsidiaries.
We estimate that we do not have any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk.



ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2006 are included herewith:

(1) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 51

(2) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 29,
2006, September 30, 2005, and October 1, 2004

Page 52

(3) Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005

Page 53

(4) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended September 29,
2006, September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004

Page 54

(5) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive
Income (Loss) for the Years Ended September 29, 2006, September 30,
2005, and October 1, 2004

Page 55

(6) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 56

through 80



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended September 29, 2006. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 for the years ended September 29, 2006,
September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004. These consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 29, 2006 in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule for the years ended September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As
discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Skyworks
Solutions, Inc. adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123(R), “Share- Based Payment,” effective October 1,
2005.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Skyworks Solutions, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 29, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated December 13, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s
assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 13, 2006



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Net revenues

$

773,750

$

792,371

$

784,023

Cost of goods sold (includes
share-based compensation expense of
$2,174 for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2006)

511,071

484,599

470,807

Gross profit

262,679

307,772

313,216

Operating expenses:

Research and development (includes
share-based compensation expense of
$6,311 for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2006)

164,106

152,215

152,633

Selling, general and administrative
(includes share-based compensation
expense of $5,734 for the fiscal
year ended September 29, 2006)

135,801

103,070

97,522

Amortization of intangible assets

2,144

2,354

3,043

Restructuring and special charges

26,955

—

17,366

Total operating expenses

329,006

257,639

270,564

Operating income (loss)

(66,327

)

50,133

42,652

Interest expense

(14,797

)

(14,597

)

(17,947

)

Other income, net

8,350

5,453

1,691

Income (loss) before income taxes

(72,774

)

40,989

26,396

Provision for income taxes

15,378

15,378

3,984

Net income (loss) )

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

$

22,412

Per share information:

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

Number of weighted-average shares
used in per share computations,
basic

159,408

157,453

152,090

Number of weighted-average shares
used in per share computations,
diluted

159,408

158,857

154,242

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

As of

September 29,

September 30,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

136,749

$

116,522

Short-term investments

28,150

113,325

Restricted cash

6,302

6,013

Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $37,022 and
$5,815, respectively

158,798

171,454

Inventories

81,529

77,400

Other current assets

9,315

11,268

Total current assets

420,843

495,982

Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization of $250,195 and $260,731, respectively

150,383

144,208

Property held for sale

—

6,630

Goodwill

493,389

493,389

Intangible assets, less accumulated amortization of $11,055 and $8,911,
respectively

15,586

17,730

Deferred tax assets


16,052

Other assets

10,044

13,852

Total assets

$

1,090,496

$

1,187,843

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Short-term debt

$

50,000

$

50,000

Accounts payable

73,071

72,276

Accrued compensation and benefits

25,297

19,679

Other current liabilities

27,252

16,280

Total current liabilities

175,620

158,235

Long-term debt, less current maturities

179,335

230,000

Other long-term liabilities

6,448

7,044

Total liabilities

361,403

395,279

Commitments and contingencies (Note 11 and Note 12)

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, no par value: 25,000 shares authorized, no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.25 par value: 525,000 shares authorized; 161,690 shares
issued and 161,659 shares outstanding at September 29, 2006 and 158,625
shares issued and outstanding at September 30, 2005

40,414

39,656

Additional paid-in capital

1,351,190

1,327,631

Treasury Stock

(173

)

—

Accumulated deficit

(661,739

)

(573,586

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(599

)

(1,137

)

Total stockholders’ equity

729,093

792,564

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

1,090,496

$

1,187,843

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

$

22,412

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
provided by operating activities:

Share-based compensation expense

14,219

—

—

Depreciation

38,217

37,277

35,829

Charge in lieu of income tax expense

—

11,104

1,022

Amortization of intangible assets

2,144

2,354

3,043

Amortization of deferred financing costs

1,992

1,596

2,176

Contribution of common shares to Savings and Retirement
Plans

8,064

10,437

8,162

Non-cash restructuring expense

6,426

—

—

Deferred income taxes

16,547

3,253

3,055

Gain on sales of assets




Asset impairments

4,197

—

10,853

Provision for losses on accounts receivable

31,206

5,127


Changes in assets and liabilities:

Receivables

(18,177

)

(18,809

)

(13,882

)

Inventories

(3,454

)

2,172

(21,404

)

Other assets

(3,395

)

(3,706

)

3,794

Accounts payable


(1,129

)

23,036

Other liabilities

16,524

(21,118

)

13,406

Net cash provided by operating activities

27,226

54,197

91,913

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures

(49,359

)

(38,135

)

(59,998

)

Receipts from property held for sale

6,567

—

—

Sale of short-term investments

1,094,985

1,223,181

1,049,082

Purchase of short-term investments

(1,009,810

)

(1,251,470

)

(1,130,128

)

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

42,383

(66,424

)

(141,044

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from short-term debt

—

—

8,290

Payments on long-term debt

(50,665

)

—


Restricted cash

(290

)

—

(701

)

Repurchase of treasury stock

(173

)

—

—

Exercise of stock options

1,746

5,244

3,512

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(49,382

)

5,244

11,130

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

20,227

(6,983

)

(38,001

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

116,522

123,505

161,506

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

136,749

$

116,522

$

123,505

Supplemental cash flow disclosures:

Taxes paid

$

2,023

$

1,221

$

2,206

Interest paid

$

13,787

$

13,030

$

15,845

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activities:

Senior Notes conversion

$

—

$

—

$

45,000

Non-cash proceeds received from non-monetary exchange

$


$

—

$

—

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(In thousands)

Par value

Accumulated

Shares of

of

Shares of

Value of

Additional

Other

Total

Common

Common

Treasury

Treasury

Paid-in

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Stock

Stock

Stock

Stock

Capital

Deficit

Loss

Equity

Balance at September 30, 2003

148,604

37,151

—

—

1,258,265

(621,609

)

(632

)

673,175

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

22,412

—

22,412

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(154

)

(154

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(154

)

(154

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

22,258

Issuance of common shares for
stock purchase plans, 401(k) and
stock option plans

1,690


—

—

11,251

—

—

11,674

Issuance of common shares in
conversion of senior notes, net
of expenses

5,718

1,429

—

—

42,908

—

—

44,337

Adjustment to issuance of common
shares in offering, net of
expenses

—

—

—

—


—

—


Balance at October 1, 2004

156,012

39,003

—

—

1,312,603

(599,197

)

(786

)

751,623

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

25,611

—

25,611

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(351

)

(351

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(351

)

(351

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

25,260

Issuance of common shares for
stock purchase plans, 401(k) and
stock option plans

2,452


—

—

14,932

—

—

15,545

Issuance and expense of
restricted stock and
acceleration of options



—

—


—

—


Balance at September 30, 2005

158,625

$

39,656

—

$

—

$

1,327,631

$

(573,586

)

$

(1,137

)

$

792,564

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

(88,153

)

—

(88,153

)

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—



Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—



Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(87,615

)

Issuance and expense of common
shares for stock purchase plans,
401(k) and stock option plans

1,982


—

—

22,528

—

—

23,024

Issuance and
expense of common shares for
restricted stock and performance
shares

1,083


—

—

1,023

—

—

1,293

Shares withheld for taxes

(31

)

(8

)


(173

)


—

—

(173

)

Balance at September 29, 2006

161,659

$

40,414


$

(173

)

$

1,351,190

$

(661,739

)

$

(599

)

$

729,093



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an innovator of high performance analog
and mixed signal semiconductors enabling mobile connectivity. The Company’s power amplifiers,
front-end modules and direct conversion radios are at the heart of many of today’s leading-edge
multimedia handsets. Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks also offers a diverse portfolio of
linear products that support automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, industrial and medical
applications.

Skyworks was formed through the merger (“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement
and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16, 2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and
among Alpha, Conexant and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). The Washington
business and the Mexicali Operations are collectively referred to as “Washington/Mexicali.” Shortly
thereafter, Alpha, which was incorporated in Delaware in 1962, changed its corporate name to
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

NOTE 2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees and
intellectual property is recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other criteria of
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, (“Revenue Recognition”) have been met. We ship product on
consignment to certain customers and only recognize revenue when the customer notifies us that the
inventory has been consumed. Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings
process is incomplete. Certain product sales are made to electronic component distributors under
agreements allowing for price protection and/or a right of return on unsold products. A reserve for
sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific
identification of an event necessitating a reserve.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
required.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

All majority owned subsidiaries are included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and
all intercompany balances are eliminated in consolidation.

FISCAL YEAR

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2006 consisted of 52
weeks and ended on September 29, 2006, and fiscal years 2005 and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks
and ended on September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, respectively.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets



and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management reviews its estimates based upon currently
available information. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents include cash deposited in demand deposits at banks and highly liquid
investments with original maturities of 90 days or less as well as commercial paper with original
maturities of 90 days or less.

SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

The Company’s short-term investments are classified as available for sale. These investments
consist of auction rate securities which have long-term underlying maturities (ranging from 20 to
40 years), however the market is highly liquid and the interest rates reset every 28 or 31 days.
The Company’s intent is not to hold these securities to maturity, but rather to use the interest
rate reset feature to sell securities to provide liquidity as needed.
The Company’s practice is to
invest in these securities for higher yields compared to cash equivalents. Such short-term
investments are carried at amortized cost, which approximates fair value, due to the short period
of time to maturity. Gains and losses are included in investment income in the period they are
realized.

RECLASSIFICATION

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s consolidated financial statements to
conform to the current year’s presentation.

RESTRICTED CASH

Restricted cash is primarily used to collateralize the Company’s obligation under a receivables
purchase agreement under which it has agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts
receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc. (“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is
fully consolidated for accounting purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement
with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing for a $50 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’)
secured by the purchased accounts receivable. For further information regarding the Facility
Agreement, please see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or market.
The Company provides for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. The recoverability of inventories is assessed through an
on-going review of inventory levels in relation to sales backlog and forecasts, product marketing
plans and product life cycles. When the inventory on hand exceeds the foreseeable demand (generally
in excess of twelve months), the value of such inventory that is not expected to be sold at the
time of the review is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of historical cost
over estimated realizable value (generally zero).

Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the
excess inventory. If actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by
management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Some or all of the inventories that
have been written-down may be retained and made available for sale. In the event that actual demand
is higher than originally projected, a portion of these inventories may be able to be sold in the
future. Inventories that have been written-down and are identified as obsolete are generally
scrapped.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method. Significant renewals and betterments are
capitalized and equipment taken out of service is written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as
renewals of a minor amount, are expensed as incurred.



Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes are 5 to 30 years for buildings and
improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated
over the lesser of the economic life or the life of the associated lease.

VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which excludes
goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset or
asset group may not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition.
The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected
future operating performance. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from
actual cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes
to the Company’s business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the
undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset or asset
group, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying
value exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined using discounted
cash flows.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested at least annually for impairment in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The
goodwill and other intangible asset impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the
impairment analysis compares the Company’s fair value to its net book value to determine if there
is an indicator of impairment. In determining fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of
several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of
fair value. The Company calculates fair value using the average market price of its common stock
over a seven-day period surrounding the annual impairment testing date of the first day of the
fourth fiscal quarter and the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the
annual impairment test (the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter). Step two of the analysis
compares the implied fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to its carrying amount in a
manner similar to a purchase price allocation for a business combination. If the carrying amount of
goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized equal to that excess. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment
annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events
occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets may be impaired.
Indicators such as unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated
technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel, and acts by governments and
courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.

DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS

Financing costs are capitalized as an asset on the Company’s balance sheet and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the financing. The Company amortized additional deferred
financing costs during fiscal 2006 due to the early extinguishment of $50.7 million of its
long-term debt as more fully described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. This method also requires the
recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that
realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are



expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

The carrying value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able
to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and
assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Management
evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation
allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event that the Company was to determine that it would be able
to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an
adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of
goodwill in the period such determination was made.

It was the Company’s intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of some of its
foreign subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, “Accounting for
Income Taxes — Special Areas”. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company
reversed its policy of permanently reinvesting the earnings of its Mexican business. This policy
reversal increased the 2005 tax provision by $9.0 million. For the fiscal year ended September 29,
2006, U.S. income tax was provided on current earnings attributable to our operations in Mexico. No
provision has been made for U.S. federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes that would be
due upon the actual or deemed distribution of undistributed earnings of the other foreign
subsidiaries, which have been, or are intended to be, permanently reinvested.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the
APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero and the ending APIC pool balance at September 29, 2006
remains zero.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term
debt and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to short-term maturities of these assets
and liabilities. Fair values of long-term debt and short-term investments are based on quoted
market prices at the date of measurement.

FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNTING

The foreign operations of the Company are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and foreign
currency transaction costs. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is the
U.S. dollar. Exchange gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency are included in the results of operations for the year. Inventories,
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, costs of goods sold, and
depreciation and amortization are remeasured from the foreign currency into U.S. dollars at
historical exchange rates; other accounts are translated at current exchange rates. Gains
and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the Company’s long-term deferred tax assets
denominated in foreign currencies are included in the provision (benefit) for income taxes and
increased tax expense by $0.2 million and $2.2 million in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2004, respectively
reduced tax expense by $0.8 million in fiscal 2005. Gains and losses resulting from the
remeasurement of all other accounts are included in other income, net. The Company recognized a
gain of $0.1 million, $0.2 million and $0.5 million related to these remeasurements in fiscal 2006,
fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.



SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

On October 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS
123(R)”) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based
payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, employee stock
purchases related to the Company’s 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), restricted stock and
other special equity awards based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company’s
previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees” (“APB 25”) for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, “Share Based Payment” (“SAB 107”),
providing interpretative guidance relating to SFAS 123(R). The Company has applied the provisions
of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R).

The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires
the application of the accounting standard as of October 1, 2005, the first day of the Company’s
fiscal year 2006.

The Company’s practice in general is to issue shares of common stock upon exercise or settlement of
options and to issue shares in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) from
previously unissued shares.

Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the portion
of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Share-based
compensation expense recognized in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 included compensation expense for share-based payment awards
granted on or before, but not yet vested as of, September 30, 2005, based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation expense
for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to September 30, 2005 based on the grant date
fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). As share-based compensation
expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended September
29, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated
forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.

Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company elected to retain its method of valuation for share-based
awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (“Black-Scholes model”) which was also
previously used for the Company’s pro forma information required under SFAS 123. The Company’s
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to;
the Company’s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected
employee stock option exercise behaviors.

PENSIONS AND RETIREE MEDICAL BENEFITS

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to twenty Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in Conexant’s
Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care benefits to
members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer pension plans or retiree benefits to its
employees.

The costs and obligations of the Company’s pension and retiree medical plans are calculated using
many assumptions, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments
cease. The most significant assumptions, as presented in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, include discount rate, expected return on plan assets and future trends in health care
costs. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market
conditions at the time of valuation. Actual results may differ substantially from these
assumptions. These differences may significantly impact future pension or retiree medical expenses.

Annual pension and retiree medical expense is principally the sum of three components: 1) increase
in liability from interest; less 2) expected return on plan assets; and 3) other gains and losses
as described below. The expected return on plan assets is calculated by applying an assumed
long-term rate of return to the fair value of plan assets. In any given year, actual returns can
differ significantly from the expected return. Differences between the actual and expected return
on plan assets are combined with gains or losses resulting from the revaluation of plan
liabilities. Plan liabilities are revalued annually, based on updated assumptions and information
about the individuals covered by the plan. The combined gain or loss is generally expensed evenly
over the remaining years that employees are expected to work.



COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

The Company accounts for comprehensive income (loss) in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
130, “Reporting Comprehensive Income” (“SFAS No. 130”). SFAS No. 130 is a financial statement
presentation standard that requires the Company to disclose non-owner changes included in equity
but not included in net income or loss. Other items of comprehensive income (loss) presented in
the financial statements consists of adjustments to the Company’s minimum pension liability as
follows (in thousands):

Accumulated

Other

Pension

Comprehensive

Adjustments

Loss

Balance as of October 1, 2004

$

(786

)

$

(786

)

Change in period

(351

)

(351

)

Balance as of September 30, 2005

(1,137

)

(1,137

)

Change in period



Balance as of September 29, 2006

$

(599

)

$

(599

)

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, “Inventory Costs — an amendment to APB No. 23,
Chapter 4” (“SFAS No. 151”). The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 clarify that abnormal amounts of
idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized
as current-period charges and require the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective for inventory
costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS No. 151
on October 1, 2005 and it did not have a material impact on its financial statements in fiscal
2006.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets—an amendment of
APB Opinion No. 29” (“SFAS No. 153”). The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for
Nonmonetary Transactions” (“APB No. 29”) is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary
assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. The guidance in APB No.
29, however, included certain exceptions to that principle. SFAS No. 153 amends APB No. 29 to
eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with
a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS
No. 153 is effective for such exchange transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after
June 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS No. 153 on October 1, 2005 and it did not have a material
impact on its financial statements in fiscal 2006.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3” (“SFAS No. 154”). This Statement replaces APB
Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes” and FASB Statement No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements—an amendment of APB Opinion No. 28,” and also changes the requirements
for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to
all voluntary changes in an accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an
accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific
transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those
provisions should be followed. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and error
corrections occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company adopted SFAS
No. 154 on September 30, 2005 and it did not have a material effect on its financial statements in
fiscal 2006.

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election
Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” (the “FASB Staff Position”).
The Company adopted the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R) during the year
ended September 29, 2006. The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to
establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC pool”) related to the
tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the
APIC pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based
compensation



awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). Under the simplified method
the Company’s beginning APIC pool is zero.

In March 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF Issue No. 04-13, “Accounting for
Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty” (“EITF 04-13”). EITF 04-13 clarifies
the circumstances under which two or more transactions involving inventory with the same
counterparty should be viewed as a single nonmonetary transaction. In addition the EITF reached a
consensus that there are circumstances under which nonmonetary exchanges of inventory within the
same line of business should be recognized at fair value. Issue 04-13 is effective for new
arrangements entered into in reporting periods beginning after March 15, 2006. The Company adopted
the provisions of EITF 04-13 in the three month period ended June 30, 2006 and it did not have a
material impact on its financial statements in fiscal 2006.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting and
disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions, as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in
practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting
for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The Company expects to adopt FIN48 on September 29, 2007, the first day of fiscal 2008 and
has not yet determined the impact this interpretation will have on our results from operations or
financial position.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”) which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim
periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact this FASB will
have on our results from operations or financial position.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS
158”) which requires an employer to: (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset
for a plan’s overfunded status or a liability for a plan’s underfunded status; (b) measure a plan’s
assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer’s fiscal
year; and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in
the year in which the changes occur. Those changes will be reported in other comprehensive income.
The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements
are effective as of the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to
measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end
statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008,
although earlier adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined the impact that SFAS 158
will have on our results from operations or financial position.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,
“Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”), which provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the
carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a current
year misstatement. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. The
Company does not expect the impact of SAB 108 will be material to its financial statements.

NOTE 3.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable securities are categorized as available for sale and are summarized as follows as of
September 29, 2006 (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

28,150

$

—

$

—

$

28,150

Total marketable securities

$

28,150

$

—

$

—

$

28,150



Marketable securities are categorized as available for sale and are summarized as follows as of
September 30, 2005 (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

113,325

$

—

$

—

$

113,325

Total marketable securities

$

113,325

$

—

$

—

$

113,325

NOTE 4.

INVENTORY

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

September 29,

September 30,



Raw materials

$

9,476

$

8,080

Work-in-process

52,097

49,329

Finished goods

19,956

19,991

$

81,529

$

77,400

NOTE 5.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

September 29,

September 30,



Land

$

9,423

$

9,423

Land and leasehold improvements

3,990

4,284

Buildings

55,983

59,586

Machinery and equipment

308,618

317,334

Construction in progress

22,564

14,312

400,578

404,939

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(250,195

)

(260,731

)

$

150,383

$

144,208

NOTE 6.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill and intangible assets are principally the result of the Merger completed on June 25, 2002.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal
quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of
goodwill may be impaired. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment test for
fiscal 2006 and determined that as of July 1, 2006, its goodwill was not impaired.

Goodwill and intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):

As of

September 29, 2006

September 30, 2005

Weighted

Average

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Amortization

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Period (Years)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Goodwill

$

493,389

$

—

$

493,389

$

493,389

$

—

$

493,389

Amortized intangible
assets

Developed technology


$

10,550

$

(5,525

)

$

5,025

$

10,550

$

(4,651

)

$

5,899

Customer relationships


12,700

(5,408

)

7,292

12,700

(4,138

)

8,562

Other



(122

)

—


(122

)

—

23,372

(11,055

)

12,317

23,372

(8,911

)

14,461



As of

September 29, 2006

September 30, 2005

Weighted

Average

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Amortization

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Period (Years)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Unamortized intangible
assets

Trademarks

3,269

—

3,269

3,269

—

3,269

Total intangible assets

$

26,641

$

(11,055

)

$

15,586

$

26,641

$

(8,911

)

$

17,730

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets is as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Amortization expense

$

2,144

$

2,165

$

2,286

The changes in the gross carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets are as follows:

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Developed

Customer

Goodwill

Technology

Relationships

Trademarks

Other

Total

Balance as of October 1, 2004

$

504,493

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

531,134

Deductions during year

(11,104

)

—

—

—

—

(11,104

)

Balance as of September 30, 2005

$

493,389

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

520,030

Deductions during year

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance as of September 29, 2006

$

493,389

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

520,030

The reduction to goodwill in fiscal 2005 results from the utilization of deferred tax assets for
which no tax benefit was recognized as of the date of the Merger. The remaining pre-Merger deferred
tax assets that could reduce goodwill in future periods are $31.9 million as of September 29, 2006.

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets is expected to be as follows (in
thousands):






Amortization expense

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

NOTE 7.

BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS

LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,



Junior notes

$

179,335

$

230,000

Less-current maturities

—

—

$

179,335

$

230,000

Junior notes represent the Company’s 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due November 2007. These
Junior notes can be converted into 110.4911 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal balance,
which is the equivalent of a conversion price of approximately $9.05 per share. The Company may
redeem the Junior notes at any time after November 20, 2005. The redemption price of the Junior
notes between the period November 20, 2005 through November 14, 2006, will be $1,011.875 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the
redemption date. The redemption price of the notes beginning on November 15, 2006 and thereafter
will be $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid
interest, if any, to the redemption date. Holders may require the Company to repurchase the Junior
notes upon a change in control of the Company. The Company pays interest in cash semi-annually in
arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The fair value of the Company’s
long-term debt approximated $178.2 million at September 29, 2006. The Company retired $50.7
million of its 4.75% convertible subordinated notes through an open market repurchase transaction
during fiscal 2006, recording a gain of approximately $50,000 and expensing approximately $572,000
in previously capitalized deferred financing costs.



Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Year


—


179,335

$

179,335

SHORT-TERM DEBT

On July 15, 2003, the Company entered into a receivables purchase agreement under which it has
agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc.
(“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is fully consolidated for accounting
purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing
for a $50.0 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’) secured by the purchased accounts
receivable. As a part of the consolidation, any interest incurred by Skyworks USA related to monies
it borrows under the Facility Agreement is recorded as interest expense in the Company’s results of
operations. The Company performs collections and administrative functions on behalf of Skyworks
USA. Interest related to the Facility Agreement is at LIBOR plus 0.4%. As of September 29, 2006,
Skyworks USA had borrowed $50.0 million under this agreement.

NOTE 8.

INCOME TAXES

Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle consists
of the following components (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




United States

$

(87,169

)

$

23,885

$

15,029

Foreign

14,395

17,104

11,367

$

(72,774

)

$

40,989

$

26,396

The provision for income taxes from operations consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Current tax expense (benefit):

Federal

$

(52

)

$


$

—

State

—

(1,032

)

(1,040

)

Foreign


1,178




(203

)

Deferred tax expense:

Federal

—

—

—

State

—

—

—

Foreign

14,992

3,761

3,165

14,992

3,761

3,165

Charge in lieu of tax expense

—

11,104

1,022

Provision for income taxes

$

15,378

$

15,378

$

3,984

The actual income tax expense reported for operations is different than that which would have been
computed by applying the federal statutory tax rate to income (loss) before income taxes and
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. A reconciliation of income tax expense as
computed at the United States Federal statutory income tax rate to the provision for income tax
expense follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Tax (benefit) expense at United States statutory rate

$

(25,471

)

$

14,346

$

9,239



Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Foreign tax rate difference

10,391

(1,048

)


Deemed dividend from foreign subsidiary

—

8,956

—

Nondeductible interest expense

—

—

1,162

Research and development credits

(1,500

)

(5,000

)

(4,600

)

State income taxes

—

(1,032

)

(1,040

)

Change in valuation allowance

31,261

(13,436

)

(2,466

)

Charge in lieu of tax expense

—

11,104

1,022

Other, net


1,488


Provision for income taxes

$

15,378

$

15,378

$

3,984

The charge in lieu of tax expense resulted from partial recognition of certain acquired tax
benefits that were subject to a valuation allowance at the time of acquisition, the realization of
which required a reduction of goodwill.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities consist of the tax effects of temporary differences
related to the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,



Current:

Inventories

$

10,550

$

4,920

Bad debts

13,431

2,004

Accrued compensation and benefits

4,242

2,919

Product returns, allowances and warranty

1,648

1,247

Restructuring

7,845


Prepaid insurance

(772

)

(818

)

Other — net

(535

)

1,085

Current deferred tax assets

36,409

11,750

Less valuation allowance

(36,070

)

(10,665

)

Net current deferred tax assets


1,085

Long-term:

Property, plant and equipment

9,859

18,474

Intangible assets

7,439

7,406

Retirement benefits and deferred compensation

5,712

1,183

Net operating loss carryforwards

62,768

65,936

Federal tax credits

23,934

21,399

State investment credits

5,560

4,419

Restructuring

—

1,506

Other — net

3,733

1,136

Long-term deferred tax assets

119,005

121,459

Less valuation allowance

(118,755

)

(105,408

)

Net long-term deferred tax assets


16,051

Total deferred tax assets

$


$

17,136

Based upon a history of significant operating losses, management has determined that it is more
likely than not that historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized except for
certain future deductions associated with the Company’s foreign operations. Consequently, no
United States income tax benefit has been recognized relating to the United States operating
losses. As of September 29, 2006, the Company has established a valuation allowance against all of
its net United States deferred tax assets. The net change in the valuation allowance of $38.8
million is principally due to restructuring charges recorded against the Company’s United States
operations that were not tax benefited. As noted above, the Company has a valuation allowance of
$154.8 million against its United States deferred tax assets as of September 29, 2006. When
recognized, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax
assets at September 29, 2006 will be accounted for as follows: approximately $119.0 million will be
recognized as a reduction of income tax expense, $31.9 million will be recognized as a reduction of
goodwill and $3.9 million will be recognized as an increase to shareholders’ equity for certain tax
deductions from employee stock options.



The provision for income taxes for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 consists of approximately $0.0
million and $11.1 million, respectively, of United States income taxes recorded as a charge
reducing the carrying value of goodwill. No benefit has been recognized for utilizing certain
acquisition related deferred tax assets. The utilization of these deferred items reduces the
carrying value of goodwill, i.e., charge in lieu of tax expense, instead of reducing income tax
expense. We evaluate the realization of these deferred tax assets periodically and adjust the
provision for income taxes accordingly based on whether the Company believes it is more likely than
not that the deferred tax assets will be realized during the carryforward period.

Deferred tax assets have been recognized for foreign operations when management believes they will
more likely than not be recovered during the carryforward period. The Company does not expect to
recognize any income tax benefits relating to future operating losses generated in the United
States until management determines that such benefits are more likely than not to be realized.

In 2002,
the Company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $23.0 million related to the impairment
of its Mexico assets. A valuation allowance had not been established because the Company believed
that the related deferred tax asset would more likely than not be recovered during the carryforward
period. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company reduced the carrying value of its
deferred tax assets by $2.2 million. This charge resulted from a reduction of the statutory income
tax rate in Mexico. Accordingly, the deferred tax asset was remeasured using the enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary difference is expected to
be recovered.

In 2006, the Company reorganized its Mexico operations. As a result, the long term deferred tax
asset relating to the impairment of its Mexico assets was written off because the machinery and
equipment was transferred to a United States company. The write-off increased tax expense by $14.6
million net of a deferred tax charge associated with this reorganization. The deferred tax asset
allowable for United States tax purposes is included in the Company’s U.S. deferred tax assets
subject to a valuation allowance as previously discussed.

Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the Company’s long-term deferred tax assets
denominated in foreign currencies are included in the provision (benefit) for income taxes and
increased tax expense by $0.2 million and $2.2 million in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2004,
respectively. The aforementioned gains and losses reduced tax expense by $0.8 million in fiscal
2005.

As of September 29, 2006, the Company has United States federal net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $187.1 million, which will expire at various dates through 2026 and aggregate state
net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $17.5 million, which will expire at various dates
through 2010. The Company also has United States federal and state income tax credit carryforwards
of approximately $29.5 million. The United States federal tax credits expire at various dates
through 2025.

No provision has been made for United States federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes
related to approximately $12.1 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have
been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United
States federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not
permanently reinvested.

In fiscal 2005 our subsidiary in Mexico issued a dividend of approximately $25.6 million of
earnings to the United States. Such earnings, which were not subject to Mexico withholding tax and
could be applied against United States net operating loss carryforwards, resulted in no significant
United States income tax expense. Earnings of our Mexico subsidiary are no longer considered
permanently reinvested, and accordingly, United States income taxes are provided on current
earnings attributable to our earnings in Mexico.

On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”) was signed into law. The AJCA
provides incentives for United States multinational corporations, subject to certain limitations.
The incentives include an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled
foreign corporations that repatriate accumulated income abroad. Due to the existence and amount of
the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards, the Company did not benefit from this provision in
the AJCA.



NOTE 9.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

The Company is authorized to issue (1) 525,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per
share, and (2) 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value.

Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by the
Company’s Board of Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose. Dividends may not be
paid on common stock unless all accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, have been paid or
declared and set aside. In the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the
holders of common stock will be entitled to share pro rata in the assets remaining after payment to
creditors and after payment of the liquidation preference plus any unpaid dividends to holders of
any outstanding preferred stock.

Each holder of the Company’s common stock is entitled to one vote for each such share outstanding
in the holder’s name. No holder of common stock is entitled to cumulate votes in voting for
directors. The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that,
unless otherwise determined by the Company’s Board of Directors, no holder of common stock has any
preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any stock of any class which the Company may issue or
sell.

On August 11, 2003 the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC with
respect to the issuance of up to $250 million aggregate principal amount of securities, including
debt securities, common or preferred shares, warrants or any combination thereof. This registration
statement, which the SEC declared effective on August 28, 2003, provides the Company with greater
flexibility and access to capital. On September 9, 2003, the Company issued 9.2 million shares of
common stock under its shelf registration statement. Currently, approximately $144 million remains
on this 2003 shelf registration. The Company may from time to time issue securities under the
remaining balance of the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes.

At September 29, 2006, the Company had 161,689,853 shares of common stock issued and 161,658,561
shares outstanding.

PREFERRED STOCK

The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits the Company to issue
up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and with rights and preferences
that may be fixed or designated by the Company’s Board of Directors without any further action by
the Company’s stockholders. The designation, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions of the preferred stock of each series will be fixed by the certificate
of designation relating to such series, which will specify the terms of the preferred stock. At
September 29, 2006, the Company had no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding.

EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS

Net loss for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 included share-based compensation expense
under SFAS 123(R) of $14.2 million including $11.2 million on employee stock options, $0.7 million
on non-vested restricted stock with service and market conditions, $0.3 million on non-vested
restricted stock with service conditions, $0.3 million on performance shares, and $1.7 million on
the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Net income for fiscal year ended September 30, 2005
reflected share-based compensation expense of $26,000 for restricted stock awards issued during the
period. There was no share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2004 relating to restricted stock
awards. No share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options or ESPP purchases was
recognized prior to October 1, 2005 because the Company had not adopted the recognition provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”
(“SFAS 123”).

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company maintains a domestic and an international employee stock purchase plan. Under these
plans, eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of
compensation. The price per share is the lower of 85% of the market price at the beginning or end
of each offering period (generally six months).



The plans provide for purchases by employees of up
to an aggregate of 4.6 million shares through December 31, 2012. Shares of common stock purchased
under these plans in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 were 835,621, 824,211, and 616,760, respectively.
At September 29, 2006, there are 1.7 million shares available for purchase. The Company recognized
compensation expense of $1.7 million for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. The Company did
not recognize any compensation expense under these plans in fiscal 2005 or 2004.

Employee Stock Option Plans

The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees and directors may be granted
options to purchase common stock. Options are generally granted with exercise prices at not less
than the fair market value on the grant date, generally vest over 4 years and expire 7 or 10 years
after the grant date. As of September 29, 2006, a total of 46.8 million shares are authorized for
grant under the Company’s share-based compensation plans. The number of common shares reserved for
granting of future awards to employees and directors under these plans was 15.0 million at
September 29, 2006. In addition, options outstanding as of September 29, 2006 include 9.7 million
options issued in connection with the Merger. The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on
stock options at September 29, 2006 was $18.9 million. The weighted average period over which the
cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.8 years.

Pursuant to an exchange offer dated June 16, 2003 (the “Exchange Offer”), the Company offered a
stock option exchange program to its employees, other than its executive officers under Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, giving them the right to tender outstanding
stock options with an exercise price of $13.00 per share or more in exchange for new options to be
issued six months and one day after the close of the Exchange Offer. On July 3, 2003, the
expiration date of the Company’s Exchange Offer, the Company accepted for exchange from eligible
employees, options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 5.3 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. These stock options were cancelled as of that date. Pursuant to the Exchange Offer, a
ratio was applied to the options accepted for exchange from eligible employees and on January 5,
2004, the Company issued new options to purchase approximately 3.4 million shares of the Company’s
common stock with an exercise price at fair market value ($9.60) in exchange for the options
cancelled in connection with the offer. These new options vest ratably over the 18 month period
from the date of grant. The Exchange Offer qualified for fixed accounting, and thus the Company did
not recognize compensation expense in connection with the grant of the replacement options pursuant
to the Exchange Offer.

As of September 29, 2006, the Company had 10 equity compensation plans under which our equity
securities are authorized for issuance to our employees and/or directors:

Except for the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option
Plan and the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, each of the foregoing equity compensation
plans was approved by our stockholders.

Non-Vested (“Restricted”) Stock Awards With Service Conditions

The Company’s share-based compensation plans provide for awards of restricted shares of common
stock and other stock-based incentive awards to officers, other employees and certain
non-employees. Restricted stock awards are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates during
the prescribed retention period (generally within four years of the date of award). The Company
granted 106,000 restricted shares in fiscal 2006 and 160,500 restricted shares in fiscal 2005 with
a four year graded vesting. The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on restricted stock



with service conditions outstanding at September 29, 2006 was $0.9 million, and the weighted
average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is 3.0 years.

Non-Vested (“Restricted”) Stock Awards With Market Conditions and Service Conditions

The Company granted 493,125 shares of restricted common stock with market conditions and service
conditions during fiscal 2006. The market condition allows for accelerated vesting of the award as
of the first, second, and, if not previously accelerated, the third anniversary of the grant date.
Specifically, if the Company’s stock performance meets or exceeds the 60

th

percentile of
its selected peer group for the years ended on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant
date, then 50% of the award vests upon each anniversary (up to 100%). If the restricted stock
recipient meets the service condition but not the market condition in years 1, 2 and 3, then the
restricted stock vests 50% at the end of year 3 and 50% at the end of year 4. The Company
calculated a derived service period of approximately 2.5 years using a Monte-Carlo simulation to
simulate a range of possible future stock prices for the Company and the members of the Company’s
selected peer group. The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on restricted stock with
market and service condition vesting at September 29, 2006 was $1.3 million. The weighted average
period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1.6 years.

Non-Vested (“Restricted”) Stock Awards

The Company granted 446,000 shares of restricted common stock during fiscal 2006. This restricted
stock will vest over a three year period (50% at the end of year 1, and 25% at the end of both year
2 and year 3). The remaining unrecognized compensation expense on restricted stock with market and
service condition vesting at September 29, 2006 was $1.9 million. The weighted average period over
which the cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 2.0 years.

Performance Units With Milestone-Based Performance Conditions

The Company granted 222,000 performance units to non-executives with milestone-based performance
conditions during the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006. The units will convert to common stock
at such time that the performance conditions are deemed to be achieved. The performance units will
be expensed over implicit performance periods ranging from 11-23 months. The Company will utilize
both quantitative and qualitative criteria to judge whether the milestones are probable of
achievement. If the milestones are deemed to be not probable of achievement no expense will be
recognized until such time as they become probable of achievement. If a milestone is initially
deemed probable of achievement and subsequent to that date it is deemed to be not probable of
achievement the Company will discontinue recording expense on the units. If the milestone is
deemed to be improbable of achievement any expense recorded on those units will be reversed. The
fair value of the performance units at the date of grant was $1.2 million in the aggregate. Of the
222,000 performance units, we issued 49,000 shares in fiscal 2006 as a result of milestone
achievement. In addition, certain other milestones were deemed to be probable of achievement thus
we recorded total compensation expense of $0.3 million in fiscal 2006.

Share-Based Compensation Plans for Directors

The Company has three share-based compensation plans for non-employee directors — the 1994
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and the Directors’ 2001
Stock Option Plan. Under the three plans, a total of 1.5 million shares have been authorized for
option grants. As of September 29, 2006, under the three plans, a total of 0.2 million shares are
available for new grants. The three plans have substantially similar terms and conditions and are
structured to provide options to non-employee directors as follows: a new director receives a total
of 45,000 options upon becoming a member of the Board; and continuing directors receive 15,000
options after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The maximum contractual term of the Director
stock options is 10 years. Under these plans, the option price is the fair market value at the time
the option is granted. Beginning in fiscal 2001, all options granted became exercisable 25% per
year beginning one year from the date of grant. Options granted prior to fiscal 2001 became
exercisable at a rate of 20% per year beginning one year from the date of grant. During the fiscal
year ended September 29, 2006, there were 165,000 options granted under these plans at a weighted
average exercise price of $6.85. At September 29, 2006, a total of 0.9 million options at a
weighted average exercise price of $9.89 per share are outstanding under these three plans, and 0.6
million shares were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $11.63 per share. The
remaining unrecognized compensation expense on director stock options at September 29, 2006 was
$1.2 million. The weighted average period over which the cost is expected to be recognized is
approximately 2.0 years. During the fiscal year ended October 1, 2004, there were 15,000 options
exercised under these plans. For the fiscal years ended September 29, 2006 and September 30,



2005,
there were no options exercised. The above-mentioned activity for the share-based compensation
plans for directors is included in the option tables below.

Distribution and Dilutive Effect of Options

The following table illustrates the grant dilution and exercise dilution:

(In thousands)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Shares of common
stock outstanding

161,659

158,625

156,012

Granted

3,869

4,668

7,351

Granted for options
accepted for
exchange

—

3,377

Cancelled/forfeited

(4,176

)

(3,918

)

(4,043

)

Expired

—

—

—

Net options
granted

(307

)


6,685

Grant dilution (1)

(0.2

%)

0.5

%

4.3

%

Exercised




Exercise dilution (2)

0.2

%

0.6

%

0.4

%

(1)

The percentage for grant dilution is computed based on net options granted as a percentage of
shares of common stock outstanding.

(2)

The percentage for exercise dilution is computed based on options exercised as a percentage of
shares of common stock outstanding.

General Option Information

A summary of stock option transactions follows (shares in thousands):

Options Outstanding

Shares

Weighted average

Available for

exercise price of

Grant

Shares

shares under plan

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2003

14,193

25,763

$

15.44

Granted

(7,351

)

7,351

9.16

Granted for options accepted for exchange

(3,377

)

3,377

9.60

Exercised

—

(685

)

5.05

Cancelled

2,245

(4,043

)

15.61

Balance outstanding at October 1, 2004

5,710

31,763

$

13.63

Granted (1)

(4,908

)

4,668

8.47

Exercised

—

(935

)

5.57

Cancelled/forfeited (2)

2,113

(3,918

)

13.66

Additional shares reserved

5,500

—

—

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2005

8,415

31,578

$

12.99

Granted (1)

(5,770

)

3,869

5.19

Exercised

—

(393

)

4.44

Cancelled/forfeited (2)

2,386

(4,176

)

12.65

Additional shares reserved

10,000

—

—

Balance outstanding at September 29, 2006

15,031

30,878

$

12.17

(1)

“Granted” under “Shares Available for Grant” includes restricted stock grants for the
year ended September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005 of 1.0 million and 0.2 million shares,
respectively. Pursuant to the plan under which they were awarded, these restricted stock
grants are deemed equivalent to the issue of 1.6 million and 0.2 million stock options,
respectively. “Granted” under “Shares Available for Grant” also includes performance awards
granted at September 29, 2006 of 0.2 million shares. Pursuant to the plan



under which they
were awarded, these performance shares are deemed equivalent to the issue of 0.3 million
stock options.

(2)

“Cancelled” under “Options Available for Grant” do not include any cancellations under
terminated plans. For the years ended September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005, and October
1, 2004, cancellations under terminated plans were 1.8 million.

Options exercisable at the end of each fiscal year (shares in thousands):

Weighted average

Shares

exercise price


23,136

$

14.05


24,053

$

14.68


17,671

$

17.59

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and exercisable options
as of September 29, 2006 (Shares and Aggregate Intrinsic Value in thousands):

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

average

Weighted

average

Weighted

remaining

average

Aggregate

remaining

average

Aggregate

Range of exercise

Number

contractual

exercise price

Intrinsic

Options

contractual

exercise price

Intrinsic

prices

outstanding

life (years)

per share

Value

exercisable

life (years)

per share

Value

$0.83 — $4.99

6,055

6.8

$

4.73

$

2,772

2,625

5.5

$

4.51

$

1,798

$5.01 — $8.93

6,001

8.0

$

7.64


2,051

7.3

$

7.54


$8.96 — $9.60

6,446

7.3

$

9.32

—

6,198

7.3

$

9.33

—

$9.67 — $17.12

6,805

3.2

$

15.14

—

6,691

3.1

$

15.21

—

$17.20 — $39.80

5,388

4.0

$

23.82

—

5,388

4.0

$

23.82

—

$40.13 — $170.44


3.1

$

53.95

—


3.0

$

53.95

—

30,878

5.8

$

12.17

$

2,793

23,136

5.1

$

14.05

$

1,803

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value,
based on the Company’s closing stock price of $5.19 as of September 29, 2006, which would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The
aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised for the fiscal years ended September 29, 2006,
September 30, 2005, and October 1, 2004 were $0.7 million, $3.4 million and $3.4 million,
respectively. The fair value of stock options vested at September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005,
and October 1, 2004 were $63.2 million, $61.8 million, and $15.0 million, respectively. The total
number of in-the-money options exercisable as of September 29, 2006 was 2.7 million.

General Nonvested (“Restricted”) Shares and Performance Award Information

A summary of the restricted share transactions follows (shares in thousands):

Weighted average

Grant-date

Shares

fair value

Balance outstanding at October 1, 2004

—

$

—

Granted


5.20

Vested

(—

)

—

Forfeited

(—

)

—

Balance Outstanding at September 30, 2005


$

5.20

Granted

1,094

5.14

Vested(1)

(89

)

4.94

Forfeited

(12

)

5.14

Balance Outstanding at September 29, 2006

1,154

$

5.17



(1)

Restricted stock awards and performance awards vested at September 29, 2006 were 40,127 shares
and 49,000 shares, respectively.

Valuation and Expense Information under SFAS 123(R)

The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options,
employee stock purchases, and restricted stock grants under SFAS 123(R) for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2006 which was allocated as follows:

(In thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

September 29, 2006

Cost of sales

2,174

Research and development

6,311

Selling, general and administrative

5,734

Share-based compensation expense included in operating
expenses

$

14,219

As of September 29, 2006, the Company had capitalized share-based compensation expense of $0.3
million in inventory. The Company did not recognize any tax benefit on the share-based compensation
recorded in the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 because we have established a valuation
allowance against our net deferred tax assets.

The table below reflects net (loss) income per share, basic and diluted, for the fiscal year ended
September 29, 2006 compared with the pro forma information for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2005 and October 1, 2004.

Fiscal Years Ended

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Net income-as reported for prior periods (1)

N/A

$

25,611

$

22,412

Share-based compensation expense related to employee stock
options, employee stock purchases, and restricted stock grants
(2)

(14,219

)

(47,183

)

(17,992

)

Restricted stock expense as calculated under APB 25

—


—

Restricted stock expense as calculated under FAS 123

—

(70

)

—

Net (loss) income, including the effect of share-based
compensation expense (3)

$

(88,152

)

$

(21,563

)

$

4,420

Per share information, basic and diluted:

Net income, as reported for the prior period (1)

N/A

$

0.16

$

0.15

Net (loss) income, including the effect of share-based
compensation expense (3)

$

(0.55

)

$

(0.14

)

$

0.03

(1)

Net income and net income per share prior to fiscal 2006 did not include share-based
compensation expense related to employee stock options and ESPP purchases under SFAS
123 because we did not adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS 123.

(2)

Share-based compensation expense prior to fiscal 2006 is calculated based on the pro
forma application of SFAS 123 as previously disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Reflected in the 2005 pro forma stock-based compensation expense is the effect of the
acceleration of the vesting of certain employee stock options in September 2005 in the
amount of $21.0 million.

(3)

Net (loss) income and net (loss) income per share prior to fiscal 2006 represents pro
forma information based on SFAS 123 as previously disclosed in the notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The weighted-average estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options granted during the
fiscal years ended September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005, and October 1, 2004 were $3.19 per
share, $4.86 per share and $3.80 per share, respectively using the Black Scholes option-pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:



Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Expected volatility

59.27

%

71.00

%

91.00

%

Risk free interest rate

4.55

%

3.90

%

1.90

%

Dividend yield

0.00

0.00

0.00

Expected option life (7 year contractual life options)

4.42

3.5

5.0

Expected option life (10 year contractual life options)

5.84

3.5

5.0

The Company used an arithmetic average of historical volatility and implied volatility to calculate
its expected volatility during the year ended September 29, 2006. Historical volatility was
determined by calculating the mean reversion of the daily-adjusted closing stock price over the
past 4.25 years of the Company’s existence (post-Merger). The implied volatility was calculated by
analyzing the 52-week minimum and maximum prices of publicly traded call options on the Company’s
common stock. The Company concluded that an arithmetic average of these two calculations provided
for the most reasonable estimate of expected volatility under the guidance of SFAS 123(R).

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury bill interest rates (risk
free) appropriate for the term of the Company’s employee stock options.

The expected life of employee stock options represents a calculation based upon the historical
exercise, cancellation and forfeiture experience for the Company over the 4.25 years between June
2002 (post-Merger) and September 29, 2006. The Company deemed that exercise, cancellation and
forfeiture experience in 2006 was consistent with historical norms thus expected life was not
recalculated at September 29, 2006. The Company determined that it had two populations with unique
exercise behavior. These populations included stock options with a contractual life of 7 years and
10 years, respectively.

As share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 is actually based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it
has been reduced for annualized estimated forfeitures of 8.59%. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures
to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual
forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical
experience.

For purposes of pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005
and October 1, 2004, the estimated fair value of the options is assumed to be amortized to expense
over the options’ vesting period on a straight-line basis.

STOCK OPTION DISTRIBUTION

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding options as of September
29, 2006 (shares in thousands):

% of total

common

Number

stock

outstanding

outstanding

Stock options held by employees and directors

23,333

14.4

%

Stock options held by non-employees (excluding directors)

7,545

4.7

%

30,878

19.1

%

As of September 29, 2006, the Company’s ratio of options outstanding as a percentage of total
common stock outstanding (“overhang”) was 19.1%. The overhang attributable to options held by
non-employees (other than its non-employee directors) was 4.7% and the overhang attributable to
employees and directors was 14.4%.

In connection with the Merger, as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, non-employees,
excluding directors, held 7.5 million and 8.6 million options at a weighted average exercise price
of $20.44 and $20.46, respectively. Effective June 25, 2002, in connection with the Merger, each
Conexant option holder, other than holders of options granted to employees of Conexant’s former
Mindspeed Technologies segment on March 30, 2001 and options held by persons in certain foreign
locations, received an option to purchase an equal number of shares



of common stock of the
Washington subsidiary. In the Merger, each outstanding Washington option was converted into an
option to purchase Skyworks common stock. The conversion of Washington options into Skyworks’
options was done in such a manner that (1) the aggregate intrinsic value of the options immediately
before and after the conversion was the same, (2) the ratio of the exercise price per option to the
market value per option was not reduced, and (3) the vesting provisions and options period of the
Skyworks’ options were the same as the original vesting terms and option period of the
corresponding Washington options. As a result, there are a large number of options held by persons
other than Skyworks’ employees and directors.

STOCK WARRANTS

In connection with the Merger, the Company issued to Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. (“Jazz
Semiconductor”) a warrant to purchase 1.0 million shares of Skyworks common stock at a price of
$24.02 per share. This warrant became exercisable in increments of 25% as of June 25, 2002, March
11, 2003, September 11, 2003 and March 11, 2004. The Company applied the Black-Scholes model to
determine the fair value estimate and approximately $0.2 million and $0.8 million was included in
amortization of intangible assets related to this item in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004,
respectively. The warrant expired without being exercised on January 20, 2005.

NOTE 10.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN, PENSIONS AND OTHER RETIREE BENEFITS

The Company maintains a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of its employees. All of the
Company’s employees who are at least 21 years old are eligible to receive discretionary Company
contributions under the 401(k) plan. Discretionary Company contributions are determined by the
Board of Directors and may be in the form of cash or the Company’s stock. The Company has generally
contributed a match of up to 4.0% of an employee’s annual eligible compensation. For those
employees employed by Alpha for five (5) years or more prior to the Merger, the Company contributes
an additional match of up to 0.75% of the employee’s annual eligible compensation. For fiscal
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company contributed and recognized expense for 0.8 million, 0.7
million, and 0.4 million shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock valued at $4.1
million, $5.1 million, and $3.6 million, respectively, to fund the Company’s obligation under the
401(k) plan.

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to approximately twenty Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in
Conexant’s Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care
benefits to members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer defined benefit pension plans
or retiree health benefits to its employees. The Company incurred net periodic benefit costs of
$0.1 million for pension benefits and $0.1 million for retiree medical benefits in each of the
fiscal years ending September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004.

The funded status of the Company’s principal defined benefit and retiree medical benefit plans and
the amounts recognized in the balance sheet are as follows (in thousands):

Pension Benefits

Retiree Medical Benefits

Fiscal Years Ended

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,







Benefit obligations in excess of plan assets

$


$

1,137

$


$

1,238

$

1,238

$

1,210

Unrecognized net actuarial loss

(981

)

(1,301

)

(786

)

—

—

—

Net (prepaid) accrued benefit cost

$

(382

)

$

(164

)

$


$

1,238

$

1,238

$

1,210

NOTE 11.

COMMITMENTS

The Company has various operating leases primarily for computer equipment and buildings. Rent
expense amounted to $9.3 million in fiscal 2006 and $9.8 million in both fiscal 2005 and fiscal
2004. Purchase options may be exercised, at fair market value, at various times for some of these
leases. Future minimum payments under these non-cancelable leases are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Year


7,600


6,813



Fiscal Year


6,131


5,090


1,834

Thereafter


$

28,132

The Company is attempting to sublet certain properties that were vacated upon the exit of the
baseband product area and, if successful, future operating lease commitments will be somewhat
offset by proceeds received from the sublessors.

In addition, the Company has entered into licensing agreements for intellectual property rights and
maintenance and support services. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, the Company is
committed to aggregate payments of $6.7 million, $4.8 million and $1.2 million in fiscal years
2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively.

NOTE 12.

CONTINGENCIES

From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be,
instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters.

Additionally, the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of
intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future
assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims
or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Intellectual property disputes often
have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations.

From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We
believe that there is no such ordinary course litigation pending that could have, individually or
in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

NOTE 13.

GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES

The Company does not currently have any guarantees. The Company generally indemnifies its customers
from third-party intellectual property infringement litigation claims related to its products. In
connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims
arising from the facility or the lease.

The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws
of the state of Delaware. The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite.
The indemnities to customers in connection with product sales generally are subject to limits based
upon the amount of the related product sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other
restrictions. In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of
the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not
recorded any liability for these indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

NOTE 14.

RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

Restructuring and special charges consists of the following (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Asset impairments

$

4,197

$

—

$

13,183

Restructuring and special charges

22,758

—

4,183

$

26,955

$

—

$

17,366

Restructuring and special charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring
activities, as follows:



2006 RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND OTHER

On September 29, 2006, the Company exited its baseband product area in order to focus on its core
business encompassing linear products, power amplifiers, front-end modules and radio solutions. The
Company recorded various charges associated with this action. In total, the Company recorded
charges of $90.4 million which included the following:

The Company recorded $13.1 million related to severance and benefits, $7.4 million related to the
write-down of technology licenses and design software, $4.2 million related to the impairment of
certain long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges. These charges total $27.0
million and are recorded in restructuring and special charges.

The Company also recorded charges of $35.1 million in bad debt expense principally for two baseband
product area customers, $23.3 million of excess and obsolete baseband and other inventory charges
and reserves and $5.0 million related to baseband product area revenue adjustments. These charges
were recorded against selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of goods sold and
revenues, respectively.

The Company anticipates recording additional restructuring charges of approximately $7.0 million
related to the exit of the baseband product area in the first fiscal quarter of 2007. These charges
primarily relate to costs to exit certain operating leases and the write down of a technology
license. The Company anticipates the completion of the restructuring activities by December 31,
2006.

Activity and liability balances related to the fiscal 2006 restructuring actions are as follows (in
thousands):

License and

Software

Workforce

Asset

Facility Closings

Write-offs

Reductions

Impairments

Total

Charged to costs and expenses

$


$

9,583

$

13,070

$

4,197

$

26,955

Non-cash items

—

(6,426

)

—

(4,197

)

(10,623

)

Cash payments

—

—

—

—

—

Restructuring balance, September 29, 2006

$


$

3,157

$

13,070

$

—

$

16,332

2004 ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a $13.2 million charge primarily
related to the impairment of obsolete baseband technology licenses that were established prior to
the Merger. This charge included approximately $1.8 million of contractual payment obligations,
which have been paid in full as of September 29, 2006. The impairment charge was based on a
recoverability analysis prepared by management based on the decision to discontinue certain
products and the related impact on its current and projected outlook. Management believed these
factors indicated that the carrying value of the related assets (intangible assets, machinery and
equipment) was impaired and that an impairment analysis should be performed. In performing the
analysis for recoverability, management estimated the future cash flows expected to result from
these products (salvage value). Since the estimated undiscounted cash flows were less than the
carrying value of the related assets, it was concluded that an impairment loss should be
recognized. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets”, the impairment charge was determined by comparing the estimated fair value of
the related assets to their carrying value. The write down established a new cost basis for the
impaired assets.

2004 Corporate Restructuring Plan

During fiscal 2004, the Company consolidated cellular systems software design centers in an effort
to improve the Company’s overall time to market for next-generation multimedia systems development.
These actions aligned the Company’s structure with its current business environment. The Company
implemented reductions in force at three remote facilities and recorded restructuring charges of
approximately $4.2 million for costs related to severance benefits for affected employees and lease
obligations. All amounts accrued for have been paid as of September 29, 2006.



Activity and liability balances related to the fiscal 2004 restructuring actions are as follows (in
thousands):

Workforce

Facility

Reductions

Closings

Total

Charged to costs and expenses

$

3,685

$


$

4,183

Cash payments

(3,530

)

(287

)

(3,817

)

Restructuring balance, October 1, 2004

$


$


$


Cash payments

(155

)

(198

)

(353

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2005

$

—

$


$


Cash payments

—

(13

)

(13

)

Restructuring balance, September 29, 2006

$

—

$

—

$

—

Pre-Merger Alpha Restructuring Plan

In addition, the Company assumed approximately $7.8 million of restructuring reserves from Alpha in
connection with the Merger. During fiscal 2006 and the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and
2004, payments related to the restructuring reserves assumed from Alpha were $0.4 million, $0.2
million, and $0.2 million, respectively. In addition, the Company reduced this restructuring
reserve by approximately $0.5 million in fiscal 2004 primarily related to a reduction in facility
closure costs. This reduction of expenses is reflected in the special charges line of the Company’s
results of operations. As of September 29, 2006, the restructuring reserve balance related to Alpha
was $0.7 million and primarily relates to estimated future payments on a lease that expires in
2008.

NOTE 15.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Net (loss) income

$

(88,152

)

$

25,611

$

22,412

Weighted average shares outstanding —
basic

159,408

157,453

152,090

Effect of dilutive stock options and
restricted stock

—

1,404

2,152

Weighted average shares outstanding —
diluted

159,408

158,857

154,242

Net (loss) income per share — basic

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

Effect of dilutive stock options

—

—

—

Net (loss) income per share —
diluted

$

(0.55

)

$

0.16

$

0.15

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of stock
options and a stock warrant through its expiration in January 2005, using the treasury stock
method, and debt securities on an if-converted basis, if their effect is dilutive.

Debt securities convertible into approximately 19.8 million shares and equity based awards
exercisable for approximately 23.7 million shares were outstanding but not included in the
computation of earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 as their effect
would have been anti-dilutive. If the Company had earned at least $93.9 million in net income for
the fiscal year ended September 29, 2006 the debt securities would have been dilutive to earnings
per share. Debt securities convertible into approximately 25.4 million shares and equity based
awards exercisable for approximately 25.5 million shares were outstanding but not included in the
computation of earnings per share for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 as their effect
would have been anti-dilutive. Debt securities convertible into approximately 25.4 million shares
and equity based awards exercisable into approximately 19.0 million shares and a warrant to
purchase 1.0 million shares were outstanding but not included in the computation of earnings per
share for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2004 as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.



NOTE 16.

SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CONCENTRATIONS

The Company follows SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information” (“SFAS No. 131”). SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way public business
enterprises report information about operating segments in annual financial statements and in
interim reports to shareholders. The method for determining what information to report is based on
the way that management organizes the segments within the Company for making operating decisions
and assessing financial performance. In evaluating financial performance, management uses sales and
operating profit as the measure of the segments’ profit or loss. Based on the guidance in SFAS No.
131, the Company has one operating segment for financial reporting purposes, which designs,
develops, manufactures and markets proprietary semiconductor products, including intellectual
property, for manufacturers of wireless communication products.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

Net revenues by geographic area are presented based upon the country of destination. Net revenues
by geographic area are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




United States

$

43,180

$

66,429

$

74,105

Other Americas

18,925

39,541

51,537

Total Americas

62,105

105,970

125,642

China

224,539

215,082

206,364

South Korea

114,926

107,225

188,090

Taiwan

116,073

92,171

69,126

Other Asia-Pacific

173,523

144,940

64,570

Total Asia-Pacific

629,061

559,418

528,150

Europe, Middle East and Africa

82,584

126,983

130,231

$

773,750

$

792,371

$

784,023

The Company’s revenues by geography do not necessarily correlate to end handset demand by
region. For example, if the Company sells a power amplifier module to a customer in South Korea,
the sale is recorded within the South Korea account although that customer, in turn, may integrate
that module into a product sold to a service provider (its customer) in Africa, China, Europe, the
Middle East, the Americas or within South Korea.

The increase in net revenues derived from Other Asia-Pacific in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal
2005 and fiscal 2004 is due to the continuing consolidation of the purchasing and manufacturing
functions of several of the Company’s significant customers to Singapore and Malaysia from European
and American locations.

Geographic property, plant and equipment balances, including property held for sale, are based on
the physical locations within the indicated geographic areas and are as follows (in thousands):

As of

September 29, 2006

September 30, 2005

United States

$

88,896

$

85,072

Mexico

59,234

60,594

Other

2,253

5,172

$

150,383

$

150,838

CONCENTRATIONS

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist
principally of trade accounts receivable. Trade receivables are primarily derived from sales to
manufacturers of communications and consumer products. Ongoing credit evaluations of customers’
financial condition are performed and collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees,
are required whenever deemed necessary. As of September 29, 2006, Motorola, Inc.



and RTI Industries
Co. Ltd., accounted for approximately 18% and 13%, respectively of the Company’s gross accounts
receivable. As of September 30, 2005, Motorola, Inc. and RTI Industries Co. Ltd., accounted for
approximately 16% and 15%, respectively of the Company’s gross accounts receivable. As of October
1, 2004 Motorola, Inc. represented approximately 12% and Samsung Electronics Co. and RTI Industries
Co. Ltd., each accounted for approximately 10% of the Company’s gross accounts receivable.

The following customers accounted for 10% or more of net revenues:

Fiscal Years Ended

September 29,

September 30,

October 1,




Motorola, Inc.


%


%


%

Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB


%


%

*

Asian Information Technology,
Inc


%

*

*

Samsung Electronics Co.

*

*


%

*

Customers accounted for less than 10% of net revenues.

NOTE 17.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(In thousands, except per share data)

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Quarter (2)

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter(3)

Year

Fiscal 2006

Net revenues

$

198,325

$

185,234

$

197,058

$

193,133

$

773,750

Gross profit

74,723

69,350

73,347

45,259

262,679

Net income(loss)

4,287


3,005

(96,370

)

(88,152

)

Per share data (1)

Net income(loss), basic

0.03

0.01

0.02

(0.60

)

(0.55

)

Net income(loss), diluted

0.03

0.01

0.02

(0.60

)

(0.55

)

Fiscal 2005

Net revenues

$

220,160

$

190,505

$

191,532

$

190,174

$

792,371

Gross profit

88,019

72,599

77,874

69,280

307,772

Net income

13,917

1,244

7,389

3,061

25,611

Per share data (1)

Net income, basic

0.09

0.01

0.05

0.02

0.16

Net income, diluted

0.09

0.01

0.05

0.02

0.16

(1)

Earnings per share calculations for each of the quarters are based on the weighted average
number of shares outstanding and included common stock equivalents in each period. Therefore,
the sums of the quarters do not necessarily equal the full year earnings per share.

(2)

During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company reduced the carrying value of its
deferred tax assets by $2.2 million. This charge resulted from a reduction of the statutory
income tax rate in Mexico. This reduction is being reported in the provision for income taxes
line of the statement of operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.

(3)

The Company recorded charges of $90.4 million which included $35.1 million in bad debt
expense, $23.3 million of inventory charges and reserves, $13.1 million related to severance
and benefits, $7.4 million related to the write-down of technology licenses and design
software, $5.0 million related to revenue adjustments, $4.2 million related to the impairment
of certain long-lived assets and $2.3 million related to other charges.



ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Skyworks’ management, with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, evaluated the effectiveness of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 29, 2006. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management
necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures. Based on the evaluation of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 29, 2006, Skyworks’ chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that,
as of such date, Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable
assurance level.

Management’s report on Skyworks’ internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the independent registered public accounting
firm’s related audit report are included below in this Item 9A. of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference.

No change in Skyworks’ internal control over reporting occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
September 29, 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over reporting.

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become



inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The
Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 29, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company’s management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.

Based on
our assessment, management concluded that, as of September 29, 2006, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

The
Company’s independent auditors have issued an audit report on our assessment of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
page 83.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, that Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Skyworks Solutions, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
Also, in our opinion, Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 29, 2006, based on criteria established
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended September 29, 2006 and our report dated December 13, 2006
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements. Such report includes as explanatory paragraph regarding
the Company’s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123(R), “Share- Based Payment,” effective
October 1, 2005.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 13, 2006



ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION.

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information relating to our directors, nominees for election as directors and executive
officers under the headings “Election of Directors”, “Directors and Executive Officers”, “Corporate
Governance” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy
statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such
proxy statement.

We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors,
officers and employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. We make
available our code of business conduct and ethics free of charge through our website, which is
located at www.skyworksinc.com. We intend to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our code
of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the
SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market by filing such amendment or waiver with the SEC and by
posting it on our website.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this item is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2007
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption “Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors”
is incorporated herein by reference, provided that the sections entitled “Compensation Committee
Report on Executive Compensation” and “Comparative Stock Performance Graph” in our definitive proxy
statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are not incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS

Information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and
is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by this item relating to securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is contained in our definitive proxy
statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption “Stock Based Compensation
Plan Information” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this item is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2007
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

Information required by this item is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2007
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption “Audit Fees” and is incorporated herein by
reference.



PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)

The following are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

1.

Index to Financial Statements

Page number in this report

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 51

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 29, 2006,
September 30, 2005, and October 1, 2004

Page 52

Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005

Page 53

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended September 29, 2006,
September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004

Page 54

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
for the Years Ended September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005, and October 1, 2004

Page 55

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 56 through 80

2.

The schedule listed below is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:

Page number in this report

Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Page 88

All other required schedule information is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements or is omitted because it is either not required or not applicable

3.

The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the Exhibits are filed as a
part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits

The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are filed herewith and incorporated by
reference herein. The response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted under Item 15 (a) (3).



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Date: December 13, 2006

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

Registrant

By:

/s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

David J. Aldrich

Chief Executive Officer

President

Director



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on
December 13, 2006.

Signature and Title

/s/ DWIGHT W. DECKER

Dwight W. Decker

Chairman of the Board

/s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

David J. Aldrich

Chief Executive Officer

President and Director (principal

executive officer)

/s/ ALLAN M. KLINE

Allan M. Kline

Chief Financial Officer Director

Vice President (principal accounting and

financial officer)

Signature and Title

/s/ KEVIN L. BEEBE

Kevin L. Beebe

Director

/s/ MOIZ M. BEGUWALA

Moiz M. Beguwala

Director

/s/ TIMOTHY R. FUREY

Timothy R. Furey

Director

/s/ BALAKRISHNAN S. IYER

Balakrishnan S. Iyer

Director

/s/ THOMAS C. LEONARD

Thomas C. Leonard

Director

/s/ DAVID P. MCGLADE

David P. McGlade

Director

/s/ DAVID J. MCLACHLAN

David J. McLachlan

Director

/s/ ROBERT A. SCHRIESHEIM

Robert A. Schriesheim

Director



SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In thousands)

Charged to

Cost and

Ending

Description

Beginning Balance

Expenses

Deductions

Misc.

Balance

Year Ended October 1, 2004

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,979

$


$

(369

)

$

—

$

1,987

Reserve for sales returns

$

5,009

$

9,200

$

(9,300

)

$

—

$

4,909

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

25,305

$


$

(12,105

)

$

—

$

13,735

Year Ended September 30, 2005

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,987

$

5,127

$

(1,299

)

$

—

$

5,815

Reserve for sales returns

$

4,909

$

4,986

$

(6,884

)

$


$

3,059

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

13,735

$

11,482

$

(13,238

)

$

—

$

11,979

Year Ended September 29, 2006

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

5,815

$

35,959

$

(4,752

)

$

—

$

37,022

Reserve for sales returns

$

3,059

$

4,867

$

(3,803

)

$

(19

)

$

4,104

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

11,979

$

23,154

$

(7,428

)

$

—

$

27,705



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

2.A

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization,
dated as of December 16, 2001, as amended
as of April 12, 2002, by and among the
Company, Washington Sub, Inc. and Conexant
Systems, Inc.

S-4

333-83768

2.a

5/10/2002

2.B

Contribution and Distribution Agreement,
dated as of December 16, 2001, as amended
as of June 25, 2002, by and between
Washington Sub, Inc. the Company and
Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.2

6/28/2002

2.C

Mexican Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
of June 25, 2002, by and between the
Company and Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.3

6/28/2002

2.D

Amended and Restated Mexican Asset
Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 25,
2002, by and between the Company and
Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.4

6/28/2002

2.E

U.S. Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of
December 16, 2001 by and between the
Company and Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.5

6/28/2002

3.A

Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation

10-K

001-5560

3.A

12/23/2002

3.B

Second Amended and Restated By-laws

10-K

001-5560

3.B

12/23/2002

4.A

Specimen Certificate of Common Stock

S-3

333-92394


7/15/2002

4.B

Form of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Note of the Company

10-K

001-5560

4.D

12/23/2002

4.C

Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2002,
by and between the Company and Wachovia
Bank, N.A. (as Trustee)

10-K

001-5560

4.E

12/23/2002

4.D

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of
January 15, 2003 between Skyworks
Solutions, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, N.A.
(as Trustee)

S-3

333-102157

4.03

1/16/2003

10.A*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc., 1986 Long-Term
Incentive Plan as amended

10-K

001-5560

10.A

12/14/2005

10.B*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Long-Term
Compensation Plan dated September 24,
1990; amended March 28, 1991; and as
further amended October 27, 1994

10-K

001-5560

10.B

12/14/2005

10.C*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1994
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee Directors

10-K

001-5560

10.C

12/14/2005



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.D*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Executive
Compensation Plan dated January 1, 1995
and Trust for the Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
Executive Compensation Plan dated January
3, 1995

10-K

001-5560

10.D

12/14/2005

10.E*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1997
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for
Non-Employee Directors

10-K

001-5560

10.E

12/14/2005

10.F*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1996 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

X

10.G*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1999 Employee
Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.L

12/23/2002

10.H*

Washington Sub Inc., 2002 Stock Option Plan

S-3

333-92394

99.A

7/15/2002

10.I*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Non-Qualified
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.N

12/23/2002

10.J

Form of Shareholders Agreement, dated as
of December 16, 2001, entered into between
each of the directors and certain
executive officers of the Company as of
the date thereof and Conexant Systems,
Inc.

S-4

333-83768


5/10/2002

10.K

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
November 12, 2002, by and among the
Company and Credit Suisse First Boston (as
representative for the several purchasers)

10-K

001-5560

10.AA

12/23/2002

10.L*

2002 Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.CC

12/23/2002

10.M

Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of
July 15, 2003, by and between Skyworks
USA, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, N.A.

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

8/11/2003

10.N

Servicing Agreement, dated as of July 15,
2003, by and between the Company and
Skyworks USA, Inc.

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

8/11/2003

10.O

Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as
of July 15, 2003, by and between Skyworks
USA, Inc. and the Company

10-Q

001-5560

10.C

8/11/2003

10.P

Terms Agreement, dated as of September 9,
2003, by and among the Company and Credit
Suisse First Boston

8-K

001-5560

1.1

9/10/2003

10.Q*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option
for the Company’s 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/17/2004

10.R*

Fiscal 2007 Executive Incentive
Compensation Plan

X



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.S*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

8-K

001-556

10.1

5/04/2005

10.T*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Directors’ 2001
Stock Option Plan

8-K

001-556

10.2

5/04/2005

10.U*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option
for the Company’s 2001 Directors Plan

8-K

001-556

10.3

5/04/2005

10.V*

Form of Notice of Stock Option Agreement
under the Company’s 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

5/11/2005

10.W*

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock
Agreement under the Company’s 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

5/11/2005

10.X*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement,
dated May 31, 2005, between the Company
and David J. Aldrich

8-K

001-5560

10.1

5/31/2005

10.Y*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Liam K. Griffin

8-K

001-5560

10.2

5/31/2005

10.Z*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Allan M. Kline

8-K

001-5560

10.3

5/31/2005

10.AA*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and George M. LeVan

8-K

001-5560

10.4

5/31/2005

10.BB*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Gregory L. Waters

8-K

001-5560

10.5

5/31/2005

10.CC*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Kevin D. Barber

8-K

001-5560

10.6

5/31/2005

10.DD*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement
between the Company and Mark V. B.
Tremallo

8-K

001-5560

10.7

5/31/2005

10.EE*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Restricted Stock
Agreement Granted Under 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/15/2005

10.FF*

Amended and Restated Severance and Change
in Control Agreement between the Company
and Kevin D. Barber

X


Statement regarding calculation of per
share earnings [see Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements]

X


Computation of Ratios

X


Subsidiaries of the Company

X

23.1

Consent of KPMG LLP.

X

31.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Act



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

Rules 13a- 14(a) and
15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

31.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and
15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

32.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

X

32.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

X

*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

92