
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended March 30, 1997

                                       OR

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from ______to _____

Commission file number 1-5560
                       ------

                             Alpha Industries, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                         04-2302115
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts                          01801
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number,                                            
 including area code:                                      (617) 935-5150 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                          Name of each exchange on
    Title of each class                        which registered
    -------------------                   ------------------------
Common Stock, $.25 par value              American Stock Exchange
Rights to purchase Common Stock           American Stock Exchange

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
     Yes      X                 No
         --------------            --------------------                    

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.         [X]

     The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant at May 30, 1997 was approximately $68,216,000.

     The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at May 30, 1997 was
10,000,066.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement, to be filed within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Report.


                    The Exhibit Index is located on page 38.
                             Page 1 of 193 pages.

 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

                                     PART I

Item 1  Business

Products

The Company categorizes its product lines and core technologies as follows:

 .    Radio Frequency (RF), Microwave and Millimeter Wave Integrated Circuits
     (ICs)

 .    Discrete Semiconductors and Passive Components

 .    Ceramic Products

The chart below identifies the major markets currently served by each of the
Company's product lines. In addition, the Company's products serve other
wireless markets.

                             [CHART APPEARS HERE]



RF, Microwave and Millimeter Wave ICs.  The Company designs and manufactures RF,
microwave and millimeter wave ICs in Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) that integrate
numerous functions performed by discrete semiconductors. The functions of the
Company's GaAs ICs include amplification, switching and control and frequency
conversion of signals in the radio transceiver portion of wireless
communications systems.  In wireless voice and data applications, the Company's
GaAs ICs are used in the handheld unit, base station transceivers and point to
point radio links between the base station and local wireline network.  The
Company's millimeter wave ICs connect transmissions between base stations,
including the local wireline PBX switching office.

Discrete Semiconductors and Passive Components. The Company fabricates discrete
surface mount semiconductors in both GaAs and silicon as stand alone components
for specialized applications which are not addressed efficiently by ICs. Silicon
technology continues to be used for discrete semiconductors when circuit
integration is not possible or for certain applications for which the properties
of silicon material provide better performance. Discrete semiconductors are used
for amplification, switching and control and frequency conversion in base
stations, transmitters and receivers of cellular handsets.  In addition, the
Company has recently introduced a complementary line of passive semiconductor
based components including couplers, power dividers and mixers in both GaAs and
silicon utilizing similar surface mount packaging techniques.


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------

Ceramic Products. The Company's ceramic products play a critical role in the
signal selection, or filtering process, that is essential to processing
communications signals. The physical properties of ceramic materials are
suitable for power efficiency and miniaturization. The Company is a major
supplier of miniature ceramic antennas to manufacturers of GPS receivers,
particularly for compact handheld units which are gaining popularity.  Ceramic
products are crucial in the frequency-determining portions of direct broadcast
satellite television (DBS TV) receivers, radar detectors and intrusion alarms.
They are also shrinking the size of cellular radio base station equipment.

The principal customers for these products are equipment manufacturers for
commercial and defense microwave systems such as cellular telephones, commercial
telecommunications, direct broadcast satellites, and military radar, missile,
and electronic warfare.

The Company's operations are within a single segment of the electronics
industry: the development, production and sale of microwave materials, devices
and components.

Markets and Distribution

During fiscal 1997, approximately 79% of the Company's sales were to
manufacturers of commercial products, primarily in the wireless communications
markets and include components for products such as wireless telephones and base
stations in addition to motion detectors and sensors.  The remaining 21% of
sales were for use in a wide variety of defense-related systems.

Export sales to non-affiliates for fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995 were $26,720,000,
$23,633,000, and $16,855,000, respectively. This compares with domestic sales
for the same period of $53,168,000, $66,081,000, and $54,974,000, respectively.
During fiscal 1997, the Company operated a sales subsidiary in the United
Kingdom and  a ceramic manufacturing operation in France.  At the end of fiscal
1997, the Company sold its ceramic manufacturing operation in France. During
fiscal 1996, the Company closed its sales subsidiary in Germany and replaced it
with an independent sales representative and distributor. See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 25 for financial information about the
Company's foreign and domestic operations.

The Company's sales are made through 13 independent domestic sales
representatives and 23 independent international sales representatives, as well
as through its own sales force of 34 persons. Approximately 12% of the Company's
sales are made through its own direct sales force and 88% through sales
representatives.

Research and Development

The Company's products and markets are subject to continued technological
advances.  Recognizing this, the Company has maintained a high level of R&D
activities to remain competitive in certain areas and to be an industry leader
in other areas.

Company sponsored R&D expenditures for the fiscal years 1997, 1996, and 1995
were $9.5 million, $9.1 million, and $4.2 million, respectively.

Raw Materials

Raw materials for the Company's products and manufacturing processes are
generally available from several sources.  It is the Company's policy not to
depend on a sole source of supply. However, there are limited situations where
the Company procures certain components and services for its products from
single or limited sources. The Company purchases these materials and services on
a purchase order basis, does not carry significant inventories and does not have
any long-term supply contracts with its source vendors. The 


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

inability of the Company to obtain these materials in required quantities would
result in significant delays or reductions in product shipments, which would
materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results.

Working Capital

The business of the Company is not seasonal, and there are no special practices
with respect to working capital for the Company or the industry in general. The
Company provides a limited warranty on its products against defects in material
and workmanship. Payment terms are 30 days in the domestic market and generally
60 days in foreign markets.

Contracts

During fiscal 1997, one customer accounted for approximately 11% of the
Company's total sales.   All of the Company's sales to the United States
Government and prime contractors and subcontractors thereof are subject to
termination at the convenience of the Government, in which event the Company
would normally be reimbursed for costs incurred.  While U.S. Government orders
are canceled in this manner, Alpha has seldom experienced any material
terminations for convenience.

Competitive Conditions

The Company competes on the basis of price, performance, quality, reliability,
size, ability to meet delivery requirements and customer service and support.
The Company experiences intense competition worldwide from a number of
multinational companies that offer a variety of competitive products and broader
product lines, and which have substantially greater financial resources and
production, marketing, manufacturing, engineering and other capabilities than
the Company. The Company also faces competition from a number of smaller
companies. In addition, the Company's customers, particularly its largest
customers, may have or could acquire the capability to develop or manufacture
products competitive with those that have been or may be developed or
manufactured by the Company.

Patent and Trademarks

Alpha owns a small number of patents and has other patent applications under
preparation or pending. However, the Company believes that its technological
position depends primarily on the ability to develop new innovative products
through the technical competence of its engineering personnel.

Backlog

The Company's backlog of undelivered orders on March 30, 1997 was approximately
$32,500,000 compared with $36,500,000 on March 31, 1996.  The Company's policy
is to record commercial orders on a quarterly basis consistent with expected
customer short-term requirements. Management believes all orders in the
Company's backlog to be firm. Approximately 90% of the March 30, 1997 backlog is
anticipated to be shipped in fiscal 1998.

Environmental Regulations

In the Company's opinion, compliance with federal, state, and local
environmental protection regulations does not and will not have a material
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of the
Company.


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------

Executive Officers

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the executive
officers of the Company at May 31, 1997.


All officers serve until the next Board of Directors meeting following the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled for September 8, 1997, or until their
successors are elected and qualified. No officer was elected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding.

Mr. Kariotis was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from 1962
(when the Company was founded) until 1978, and, from 1974 to 1978, he was also
Treasurer of the Company. From 1979 to 1983, Mr. Kariotis was the Secretary of
Manpower Development and Economic Affairs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
He was re-elected Chairman of the Board of the Company in 1983 and Chief
Executive Officer in 1985. Mr. Kariotis resigned as Chief Executive Officer in
July 1986 while he campaigned for public office. He resumed his position as
Chief Executive Officer in November 1986, and served in that capacity until
1991.

Mr. Leonard joined the Company in 1992 as General Manager of the Components and
Systems  Division. He became the General Manager of Operations for the Alpha
Microwave Division effective January 1994 and was elected Vice President in
1994. Mr. Leonard was elected President, Chief Executive Officer and Director in
July 1996. Mr. Leonard has over 30 years experience in the microwave industry,
having held a series of general managerial and marketing positions at M/A-COM,
Inc., from 1972 to 1992 and prior to 1972 at Varian Associates and Sylvania.

Mr. Vincent joined the Company in 1979 and was the Controller from 1979 to 1997.
In January 1997, Mr. Vincent was appointed Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer.  Mr.  Vincent is a Certified Public Accountant.

Mr. Aldrich joined the Company in 1995 as Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer.  In May 1996 Mr. Aldrich was also appointed General
Manager of Alpha Microwave. In January 1997, he relinquished his positions as
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Aldrich held
several positions at M/A-COM, Inc., including Manager Integrated Circuits Active
Products, Corporate Vice President Strategic Planning, Director of Finance and
Administration, and Director of Strategic Initiatives with the Microelectronics
Division.  Prior to joining M/A-COM, Inc., Mr. Aldrich was Controller with Adams
Russell Electronics Company from 1984 to 1989 and a project leader for a NASA
satellite communications program with Space Communications Company (a Fairchild
Industries and Contel Inc. 


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

Partnership) from 1981 to 1983. Mr. Aldrich is a Director of Microwave Power
Devices, Inc., a wireless high-power amplifier company.
 
Mr. Gillard joined the Company in November 1990 as Director of GaAs IC Products.
In June 1996, he was named as the Company's Vice President of Business
Development.  Before joining Alpha, Mr. Gillard held a number of Vice President
positions at M/A-COM, Inc. in Sales, Marketing and Business Development.  Mr.
Gillard received his engineering education at Ecole Central d'Electronique,
Paris, France and his business training at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's Sloan School.

Mr. Langman joined the Company in January 1997, as Vice President of Alpha
Industries, Inc., and President and General Manager of Trans-Tech, Inc.  Prior
to joining Alpha and Trans-Tech, Mr. Langman worked for Coors Ceramics Company
for twenty-three years, holding senior executive positions in operations and
sales.  Mr. Langman received his B.S. in Ceramic Engineering from Alfred
University and his M.S. in Metallurgy and Material Science from Lehigh
University.

Mr. Nemiah joined the Company in November 1995 as Corporate Counsel and
Assistant Secretary.  He was named Secretary in September 1996.  Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Nemiah was at American Science and Engineering from
1987 to 1995, holding the positions of Vice President, General Counsel and
Clerk.

Employees

As of March 30, 1997, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
800 persons, compared with 990 persons as of March 31, 1996.

Item 2  Properties


The following information describes the major facilities owned and leased by the
Company. The Company believes it has adequate production capacity to meet its
current business needs for the next 12 to 18 months. As described in Note 4 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 27 and 28, several properties
secure debt of the Company.

a)   The Company owns a 158,000 square foot plant plus eight acres of land at 20
     Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts. This plant is occupied by the
     semiconductor and component manufacturing operations and corporate
     headquarters.

b)   The Company owns a 92,000 square foot facility in Adamstown, Maryland. This
     plant is occupied by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Trans-Tech,
     Inc., and is utilized as the Company's primary ceramic products
     manufacturing facility.

c)   The Company leases a 33,000 square foot facility in Frederick, Maryland.
     This plant is used by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Trans-Tech,
     Inc., to manufacture ceramic filters.

d)   The Company leases 60,000 square feet of space in Frederick, Maryland. This
     facility is currently substantially unoccupied and the Company is seeking a
     sub-tenant for the entire facility.


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------

Item 3  Legal Proceedings


The Company does not have any material pending legal proceedings other than
routine litigation incidental to its business.

The Company has been notified by federal and state environmental agencies of its
potential liability with respect to the Spectron, Inc. Superfund site in Elkton,
Maryland. Several hundred other companies have also been notified about their
potential liability regarding this site.  The Company continues to deny that it
has any responsibility with respect to this site other than as a de minimis
                                                                 -- -------
party. Management is of the opinion that the outcome of the aforementioned
environmental matter will not have a material effect on the Company's
operations.

See also Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 35.

Item 4  Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders


There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fiscal
quarter ended March 30, 1997.

                                    PART II

Item 5  Market For The Registrant's Common Stock And Related Stockholder Matters


See the section entitled "Quarterly Financial Data" appearing on page 22 for
information regarding Common Stock market prices.  Dividends have not been paid
in either of the past two fiscal years. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing on pages 27 and 28 for information regarding dividend
restrictions.


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

Item 6  Selected Financial Data


Five Year Financial Summary
(In thousands, except per share amounts and financial ratios)




 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------


Item 7  Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results
        Of Operations

Fiscal 1997 Compared to Fiscal 1996

General

Despite a difficult 1997 fiscal year, in which the Company lost $15.6 million,
changes and improvements completed by the end of the year have strengthened the
Company and positioned it for profitability in the first quarter (ending June
1997) of the 1998 fiscal year.

The Company's losses in the year were largely the result of an industry-wide
over-supply of cellular telephones and related equipment, especially in the
North American cellular telephone market, as well as operational difficulties at
Trans-Tech, Inc. (TTI), the Company's ceramic component subsidiary.  Following a
period of extremely strong demand from the Company's customers, many of the
Company's customers announced, early in the fourth quarter of the 1996 fiscal
year, that they had excessive finished goods inventory, leading them to cut back
on existing component orders to the Company and to delay future orders.

In July 1996, Thomas C. Leonard was asked by the Board of Directors to take over
as President and CEO of the Company.  Mr. Leonard had been a Vice President at
Alpha for almost four years, concentrating on turning around and improving
troubled operations within Alpha Microwave.

Alpha Microwave, the Company's Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) Integrated Circuits (ICs)
and semiconductor division, operated at virtually break-even for the year, as it
continued to invest for increased capacity and market penetration. In May 1996,
David J. Aldrich became General Manager of Alpha Microwave and began to
institute a series of changes that strengthened the division and prepared it for
fast growth when the market returned. Throughout the fiscal year, plans
continued to increase capacity, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997,
conversion from 3 inch to 4 inch diameter GaAs wafers and the addition of a
third shift resulted in a 2.5 to 3-fold increase in the division's capacity to
manufacture GaAs ICs.  Restructuring of the sales and marketing organizations in
the division allowed a tight focus on "strategic customers", the largest
original equipment manufacturers in the wireless telephone industry.  As a
result of all of these actions, Alpha Microwave was profitable in the last two
quarters of fiscal 1997.

Trans-Tech was particularly hard-hit by the slump, because of operating
inefficiencies, which had increased costs and adversely affected shipments to
customers.  These problems led the Company to seek new management for Trans-Tech
- -- a process that was completed only late in January 1997, with the arrival of
Richard Langman as the new President and General Manager of  Trans-Tech.

Analysis of the Trans-Tech situation first by Mr. Leonard and then by Mr.
Langman, indicated operational problems, made more painful by the loss of orders
from customers who had been disappointed by Trans-Tech's late and unpredictable
deliveries.  This reduction in order volume at Trans-Tech persisted even as
order volume rose in other parts of the Company, which confirmed the decision to
divest or close higher-cost, redundant manufacturing operations in France and
California.  Legal issues in France delayed the sale of the French subsidiary
until the end of the fourth quarter, but both operations were disposed of during
the fiscal year.  These divestitures reduced costs and eliminated excess
capacity, without any reduction of product offerings.

Also in the fourth quarter, Trans-Tech conducted a significant reduction in
force, largely among support personnel and narrowed the focus of its development
activities, in order to bring its cost structure in line with its reduced level
of business.  Also in the fourth quarter, Alpha Microwave sold a small product
line consisting of digital radio subsystems.


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

At the beginning of the year, the Company's break-even was at approximately $25
million per quarter; by the end of the year, with the completion of all of the
actions described above, the break-even was at $21-22 million.  As a result, the
Company announced that all non-recurring events were complete during fiscal 1997
and projected profitability in the first quarter of fiscal 1998.

Results of Operations

Sales for fiscal 1997 totaled $85.3 million compared to sales of $96.9 million
in fiscal 1996.  The decrease in fiscal 1997 sales was primarily the result of
lower sales volumes at Trans-Tech from the factors discussed above.  In
contrast, sales of semiconductors and GaAs ICs at Alpha Microwave were lower in
the first quarter than in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996, but showed
continued modest growth throughout the year.  The Company continued to increase
its focus on the commercial wireless markets as military sales declined to 21%
of fiscal 1997 sales , compared with 24% in fiscal 1996.  The Company will
continue to participate in military programs with low risk and those that
provide funding for the development of technology that is transferable to
commercial wireless applications.

Gross profits for fiscal 1997 totaled $16.7 million as compared to $30.9 million
in fiscal 1996.  The decrease in gross profit in fiscal 1997 was the result of:
(i) excess manufacturing capacity at Trans-Tech that was adjusted in the fourth
quarter with the divestiture of the French subsidiary and the consolidation at
Trans-Tech; (ii) carrying costs of approximately $2.7 million for the two
divested operations (incurred prior to divestiture);  (iii) a $2.6 million
inventory write-down at Trans-Tech resulting from shifts in demand away from
certain ceramic products; and (iv) decisions to continue expanding capacity at
Alpha Microwave during the year in spite of lower Company-wide sales volumes for
the first half of the year.  Excluding certain non-recurring costs, primarily
the carrying costs and inventory write-down identified above, the Company's
gross profit as a percentage of sales would be 27% for fiscal 1997 and 31% for
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.

Company sponsored research and development expenses increased in fiscal 1997 to
$9.5 million, or 11% of sales from $9.1 million, or 9% of sales in fiscal 1996.
The continued level of research and development expenses reflects the Company's
strong commitment to  its investment in the GaAs IC product line.  The Company
is dedicated to supporting high volume applications for wireless customers and
will continue to invest in product and process development to better serve its
targeted markets.  The Company expects a reduction in quarterly R&D of
approximately $200 to $300 thousand, due to the refocusing of TTI and the
discontinued investment in the digital radio product group.  However, the
Company will continue to increase investments in high volume wireless products.

Selling and administrative expenses increased to $20.4 million, or 24% of sales,
in fiscal 1997 compared to $17.2 million, or 18% of sales, in fiscal 1996.  The
increase in selling and administrative expenses for fiscal 1997 reflects
expanded investments in the Company's sales activities.  These investments
included the addition of dedicated account managers for key wireless OEM
manufacturers and improvements to the Company's information systems, such as
adding Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) capabilities.  Also included in fiscal
1997 selling and administrative expenses are non-recurring costs of $900
thousand for severance costs related to various corporate executives and $626
thousand for recruiting and consolidation costs associated with TTI.

Interest expense decreased $189 thousand for fiscal 1997 compared to the same
period last year.  Interest income increased $43 thousand for fiscal 1997
compared to fiscal 1996. During the third quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company
received funds from a secondary offering that were used to reduce debt and
increase short-term investments which resulted in decreased interest expense and
increased interest income.  Other expense and income decreased $87 thousand in
fiscal 1997 compared with fiscal 1996.  These fluctuations were due to currency
gains and losses.


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------

The Company did not record a tax provision for fiscal 1997.  No federal taxes
were due, and state and foreign taxes were offset by a state loss carryback.
The Company is expected to have a below normal tax rate due to net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $36 million which expire beginning in fiscal
2004.

The Company reported a net loss of $15.6 million or $1.58 per share compared
with net income of $3.8 million or $0.43 per share for fiscal 1996.

Financial Position

At March 30, 1997, working capital totaled $18.4 million and included $7 million
in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, compared with $32.6
million of working capital at the end of fiscal 1996.  Cash decreased $5.5
million during fiscal 1997 as a result of a $15.6 million loss, further
investments in capital expenditures and a reduction in accounts payable.

Capital expenditures of approximately $8 million were used primarily for
continued automation of the semiconductor wafer fab operations and the IC and
discrete semiconductor assembly and test areas, as well as for improved
manufacturing capabilities at the ceramics manufacturing facility.  During
fiscal 1997, the Company was successful in converting its existing 3 inch GaAs
wafer line to 4 inch wafers.  A portion of the capital expenditures during the
year was funded by a $5 million equipment line of credit, which was subsequently
converted to a term note.  The Company remains committed to adding the required
capacity needed to service the wireless markets as demand continues to grow.
The Company currently anticipates investing approximately $10 million in capital
expenditures during fiscal 1998.

With cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $7 million and a $7.5
million working capital line of credit available until October 1, 1997, the
Company believes it has adequate funds to support its current operating and
capital investment needs.  At March 30, 1997, $1 million was borrowed under the
line of credit.  As in the past, the Company intends to renew the line of credit
when it matures.  Also, the Company will continue to evaluate other available
sources of financing, such as sale leasebacks or borrowing against its debt-free
Massachusetts facility.

Other Matters

Inflation did not have a significant impact upon the results of operations of
the Company during the three year period ended March 30, 1997.

In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128").  SFAS
128 establishes a different method of computing net income per share than is
currently required under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 15.  Under SFAS 128, the Company will be required to present both basic net
income per share and diluted net income per share.  The impact on diluted net
income per share is not expected to be material.  The Company plans to adopt
SFAS 128 in its fiscal quarter ending December 1997 and at that time all
historical net income per share data will be restated to conform to the
provisions of SFAS No. 128.


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

Fiscal 1996 Compared to Fiscal 1995

General

The Company set record levels for sales and orders for fiscal 1996, and earnings
increased 33% in fiscal 1996 as compared with the prior year. In fiscal 1996,
the Company doubled its investments in product development mainly for the
Gallium Arsenide Monolithic Integrated Circuits (GaAs MMICs) and ceramic
products aimed at the wireless communication markets.  At the same time, the
Company increased unit output by 64% due to improved manufacturing efficiencies
and added capacity for both semiconductor and ceramic products.  These actions
positioned the Company to support higher demands, particularly for wireless
communication products.  Unfortunately, an overall softness in the North
American cellular market and the delayed roll-out of the Personal Communications
System (PCS) was expected to result in lower demand throughout the summer of
1996.

Results Of Operations

Sales for fiscal 1996 increased 23.8% to $96.9 million as compared to sales of
$78.3 million in fiscal 1995. The increase in sales was attributable to
increased unit volume in the Company's GaAs MMIC, ceramic and discrete
semiconductor product lines primarily into the commercial wireless markets.
These unit volume increases were partially offset by a decline in average
selling prices because of the Company's shift to high volume business in the
commercial sector.  As the Company continued to gain strength in the commercial
wireless markets, direct sales to the United States Defense Department continued
to decline, with 24% of fiscal 1996 sales related to military subcontracts for
ultimate sale to the Defense Department or foreign governments, compared with
29% in fiscal 1995.  The decrease in defense related business was attributable
to the decline in traditional military products and reduced funding for certain
weapons systems.

Gross profit increased 29.4% in fiscal 1996 to $30.9 million, or 31.9% of sales,
as compared to $23.9 million, or 30.5% of sales in fiscal 1995. The improvement
in gross profit was the result of: (a) increased sales volumes, (b) higher
capacity utilization at the Company's Woburn, Massachusetts manufacturing
facility and (c) greater efficiencies due to the consolidation of facilities
that took place in fiscal 1994 when the Company moved several product lines to
its Woburn, Massachusetts plant. The Company recorded lower margins in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1996 as a result of flattening sales and rising costs
due to added manufacturing capacity.

Research and development expenses increased 120.2% in fiscal 1996 to $9.1
million, or 9.4% of sales, from $4.2 million, or 5.3% of sales in fiscal 1995.
This increase reflects the continued investment by the Company in the GaAs MMIC
and ceramic product lines.  The Company will continue to invest in product and
process development in order to address the demands of its targeted wireless
markets. Customer sponsored R&D decreased $3.4 million in fiscal 1996 and $1.9
million in fiscal 1995. As customer sponsored R&D continued to decrease, the
Company sponsored R&D will continue to increase since the Company is strongly
committed to developing new wireless communications products. However, whenever
possible the Company will try to fund its R&D through collaborative
developmental contracts.

Selling and administrative expenses increased to $17.2 million, or 17.8% of
sales, in fiscal 1996. The increase in selling and administrative expenses was
primarily a result of training and other costs related to the early phases of
implementation of a new manufacturing and management information system, as well
as increased commissions related to higher sales volume.

Interest expense remained relatively constant for fiscal 1996 and 1995.

Interest income increased $315 thousand largely due to interest earned on funds
received from a stock offering that was completed during the third quarter of
fiscal 1996.  The Company successfully completed a secondary public offering
which raised $25.3 million, net of expenses, on the sale of 1,840,000 shares of


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------

common stock.  Other expense and income increased by $43 thousand in fiscal 1996
compared with fiscal 1995. This fluctuation was due to currency gains and
losses.

The Company's effective tax rate for fiscal 1996 was 15% compared to the current
combined federal, state and foreign rate of approximately 40%.  This rate
differed from statutory rates primarily as a result of the utilization of net
operating loss carryforwards.  At March 31, 1996, the Company had available net
operating loss carryforwards of approximately $25 million which will expire
commencing in 2004.

Net income for fiscal 1996 was $3.8 million or $0.43 per share versus $2.8
million or $0.36 per share for fiscal 1995. The first quarter of fiscal 1996
included a repositioning credit of $320 thousand or $0.03 per share which
resulted from the reversal of certain accruals for estimated carrying costs as a
result of an earlier than expected disposition of the Methuen, Massachusetts
facility. Per share data reflected the stock offering completed in the third
quarter of fiscal 1996.

Financial Position

At March 31, 1996, working capital totaled $32.6 million and included $15.5
million in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, compared with
$11.0 million of working capital at the end of fiscal 1995. Cash increased $7.8
million during fiscal 1996 mainly as a result of proceeds received from the
secondary public offering. During fiscal 1996, the Company had $12.3 million of
capital expenditures primarily for the expansion of its ceramic manufacturing
facilities, further automation of its semiconductor wafer fab operations, and
various information technology equipment.  In addition to the proceeds received
from the offering, the Company also had two lines of credit available for a
total of $12.5 million. The Company entered into a $7.5 million working capital
line of credit agreement which was to expire on August 1, 1997, and a $5 million
equipment line of credit which was to expire on July 31, 1996.  At March 31,
1996 there was $1 million outstanding under the equipment line of credit.

In July 1995, the Company sold its Methuen, Massachusetts plant and received net
proceeds of $2.5 million.  In connection with the sale, using the net proceeds
and $1 million borrowed under its line of credit, the Company retired $3.5
million of related debt.

Forward-Looking Statements

Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion in this
Report contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties, such as statements of the Company's plans, objectives,
expectations and intentions.  The cautionary statements made in this Report
should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever
they appear in this Report.  The Company's actual results could differ
materially from those discussed herein.  Factors that could cause or contribute
to such differences are discussed below.

Recent Market Softness.  During the fiscal year, a glut of finished goods
inventory, overall softness in the North American cellular market and the
delayed roll-out of the Personal Communications System (PCS) significantly
impacted the Company's orders and shipments.  Although the Company believes that
the market is currently strong and that the market problems that affected fiscal
1997 have been resolved, there can be no assurance that such inventory
imbalance, market softness and delays attendant upon the introduction of new
technologies will not occur in the future.  Any such events could have a
material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and
operating results.

Repositioning of Company's Business. The Company has in recent years worked to
reposition its business, away from military sales and into commercial sales.
Military sales have been declining, and the Company anticipates that revenues
from military sales will continue to decline. There can be no assurance that the
Company's effort to reposition itself as a supplier of advanced products to
wireless communications markets will be successful. If revenues from commercial
wireless customers do not grow, or grow less rapidly than 


 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------

expected, or if in the near term revenues from military sales decline more
rapidly than expected, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected.

Variability of Operating Results.  The Company's quarterly and annual results
have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number
of factors, including: cancellation or delay of customer orders; market
acceptance of the Company's or its customers' products; variations in
manufacturing yields; timing of announcement and introduction of new products by
the Company and its competitors; changes in revenue and product mix;
competition; changes in manufacturing capacity and variations in the utilization
of this capacity; variations in average selling prices; variations in operating
expenses; the long sales cycles associated with the Company's customer specific
products; the timing and level of product and process development costs;
cyclicality of the semiconductor and ceramic industries; the timing and level of
non-recurring engineering revenues and expenses relating to customer specific
products; and changes in inventory levels. Any unfavorable changes in these or
other factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results. The Company's expense levels are based, in part, on its expectations as
to future revenue, and certain of these expenses, particularly those relating to
the Company's capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed
in nature. For example, the Company is investing in GaAs and silicon process
development technology in anticipation of increased revenues from related
markets. As a result of the relatively fixed nature of certain of the Company's
expenses, operating results would be disproportionately and adversely affected
by a reduction in revenue. The Company expects that its operating results will
continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of these and other factors.

Customer Concentration.  Historically, a significant portion of the Company's
sales in each fiscal period has been concentrated among a limited number of
customers. This trend is accelerating, and in recent periods sales to the
Company's major customers as a percentage of total sales have increased. The
Company does not generally enter into long-term contracts with its customers,
and when it does, the contract is generally terminable for the convenience of
the customer. If the Company were to lose one of these major customers, or if
orders by a major customer otherwise were to decrease, or if major orders were
to be canceled or deferred, the Company's business, financial condition and
operating results would be materially and adversely affected.

Dependence on Customer Specific Products.  Most of the Company's products are
designed to be incorporated into specific end-user products. In light of short
product life cycles in the wireless communications industry, the Company's
future success depends upon its ability to select customer specific development
projects which will result in sufficient production volume to enable the Company
to recover its development costs and realize a profit on the project. There can
be no assurance that the Company will be able to select such customer specific
projects, or that the Company's products will be designed into such projects. In
addition, OEMs require that their suppliers design and manufacture components
very quickly. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to design,
manufacture in large volumes and deliver to its customers high quality, reliable
products within the required time periods. The Company has experienced delays in
the production of ICs, ceramic products and discrete semiconductors under major
contracts with major OEM customers. There can be no assurance similar problems
will not recur in the future. Any such problems could have a material and
adverse effect on the Company's operating results.

Product And Process Development And Technological Change. The wireless
communications industry is characterized by frequent new product introductions,
evolving industry standards and rapid changes in product and process
technologies. The Company believes that its future success will depend upon its
ability to continue to improve its product and process technologies and develop
new technologies. The success of the Company's new products is dependent upon
many factors, including factors that are outside the Company's control. These
factors include: the Company's ability to anticipate market requirements in its
product development efforts; market acceptance and continued commercial success
of OEM products for which the Company's products have been designed; the ability
to adapt to technological changes and to support established and emerging
industry standards; successful and timely completion of product 



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------
 
development and commercialization; achievement of acceptable wafer fabrication
and ceramic process yields and manufacturing yields generally; and the ability
to offer new products at competitive prices. No assurance can be given that the
Company's product and process development efforts will be successful or that the
Company's new products or those of its customers will achieve or sustain market
acceptance. In addition, the wireless communications industry is characterized
by end-user demands for increased functionality at ever lower prices. To remain
competitive, the Company must obtain yield and productivity improvements and
cost reductions and must introduce new products which incorporate advanced
features and which therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. To
the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur
in a timely manner or the Company's or its customers' products do not achieve
market acceptance, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected.

Manufacturing Risks.   The manufacturing processes for the Company's products,
in particular its GaAs ICs, are highly complex and precise, requiring advanced
and costly equipment, and are being modified continually in an effort to improve
yields and product performance. The Company expects that its customers will
continue to establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and
reliability that must be met by the Company's products. The Company has limited
experience in high volume manufacturing of certain GaAs ICs and ceramic products
for the high volume commercial applications on which its current product
development, sales and marketing efforts are focused. The Company has
encountered and may in the future encounter development and manufacturing
delays, has from time to time failed and may in the future fail to meet its
customers' contractual specifications, and one or more of its products have
contained and may in the future contain undetected defects or failures when
first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments. If such delays,
defects or failures occur, the Company could experience lost revenue, resulting
from delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product
returns or discounts, or could experience increased costs, including product or
process redesign, warranty expense or costs associated with customer support,
any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results.  There can be no assurance that the Company will not in the future
experience significant product quality, performance or reliability problems.

Management of Growth.  The growth in the Company's business, and its continuing
transition from military to commercial sales, has placed, and is expected to
continue to place, a significant strain on the Company's personnel, management
and other resources. In order to manage any future growth effectively, the
Company will, among other things, be required to upgrade and expand certain
manufacturing facilities; attract, train, motivate and manage employees
successfully; and continue to improve its operational and financial systems.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in these respects.
The Company is currently in the process of implementing a new management
information system.  There can be no assurance that the Company will not
encounter problems or increased expense levels in connection with implementing
its new management information system. In addition, the Company anticipates that
any future growth of its business will require increased utilization of the
Company's manufacturing capacity, including increasing the number of shifts
during which its manufacturing facilities are operational. Further, any such
future growth could require improvement or expansion of the Company's existing
manufacturing facilities. Expansion or upgrade of the Company's manufacturing
facilities will entail substantial capital expenditures. Lead times for certain
capital equipment are long, and modification of the Company's facilities and
installation of such equipment is a complex process which could disrupt the
Company's ongoing manufacturing operations. Delays in completion of a planned
expansion or upgrade could limit the ability of the Company to respond to the
rapid design and production cycles required by its customers. Moreover, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to secure sources of capital
adequate to fund the necessary expenditures.  The Company could experience
product quality, performance or reliability problems and development and
manufacturing delays in connection with any such increase in utilization or such
expansion or upgrade of the Company's manufacturing capacity. The occurrence of
any such problems or the inability of the Company otherwise to manage any future
growth effectively could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating
results.



- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------
 
Dependence on Key Personnel.  The Company's future success depends in large part
on the continued service of its key technical, marketing and management
personnel, and on its ability to identify, attract and retain qualified
technical personnel, particularly highly skilled design, process and test
engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and the development
of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense,
and the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.

Cyclicality of the Company's Markets.  While the semiconductor and ceramic
markets have in the past experienced overall growth, they have historically been
characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to
time, these industries have also experienced significant downturns, often in
connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in
general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by
diminished product demand, production overcapacity and subsequent accelerated
price erosion, and in some cases have lasted for extended periods of time. The
Company's business may in the future be materially and adversely affected by
industry-wide fluctuations. The Company's continued success will depend in large
part on the continued growth of the wireless communications industry.  No
assurance can be given that the Company will not be adversely affected in the
future by cyclical conditions in the wireless communications industry.

Competition.   Wireless communications markets are intensely competitive and are
characterized by rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and
price erosion. Currently, the Company competes primarily with manufacturers of
high performance GaAs ICs, discrete silicon semiconductors, passive components,
ceramic filters and other ceramic products and microwave and millimeter wave
components. The Company expects increased competition both from existing
competitors and others which may enter these markets, as well as potential
future competition from companies which may offer new or emerging technologies,
such as surface acoustic wave filters, silicon germanium and other silicon
technologies. In addition, many of the Company's customers, particularly its
largest customers, have or could acquire the capability to develop or
manufacture products competitive with those that have been or may be developed
or manufactured by the Company. The Company's future operating results may
depend in part upon the extent to which these customers elect to purchase from
outside sources rather than develop and manufacture their own systems. A number
of the Company's competitors have significantly greater financial, technical,
manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company.  The ability of the
Company to compete successfully depends in part upon the ability of the Company
to develop price competitive, high quality solutions for OEMs and the extent to
which customers select the Company's products over competitors' products for
their systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
compete successfully in the future.



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------
 
Item 8  Financial Statements And Supplementary Data
        Index To Financial Statements





- --------------------------------------- 
Alpha Industries Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------

Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands except share and per share amounts)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------
 
Consolidated Statements Of Operations
(In thousands except per share amounts)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------


Supplemental disclosures:
Capital lease obligations of $325 thousand and $277 thousand were incurred
during the years ended March 31, 1996, and April 2, 1995, respectively, when the
Company entered into leases for new equipment.  No new leases were entered into
during the year ended March 30, 1997.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


 
=======================================
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
=======================================


Quarterly Financial Data
(unaudited)
(In thousands except share data)




The Company's common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, symbol AHA.
The number of stockholders of record as of May 30, 1997 was approximately 1,100.

  (1) Earnings per share calculations for each of the quarters are based on the
      weighted average number of shares outstanding and included common stock
      equivalents in each period.  Therefore, the sum of the quarters does not
      necessarily equal the full year earnings per share.


 
                                         =======================================
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         =======================================


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1  Summary of  Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation:
   The financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
   subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
   been eliminated in consolidation. The Company's fiscal year ends on the
   Sunday closest to March 31.  There were 52 weeks in fiscal 1997, 1996 and
   1995.

Use of Estimates:
   The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
   generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
   estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
   liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
   of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
   expenses. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition:
   Revenue is recognized when a product is shipped and services are performed.
   Contract revenue is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, which
   is primarily measured on the ratio of units shipped to the total contract
   number of units. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on uncompleted
   contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined.

Foreign Currency Translation:
   The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated in accordance with the
   Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52. Foreign operations are
   remeasured as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. Monetary
   assets and liabilities are translated at the year end rates of exchange.
   Revenues and expenses (except cost of sales and depreciation) are translated
   at the average rate for the period. Non-monetary assets, equity, cost of
   sales and depreciation are remeasured at historical rates. Remeasurement
   gains and losses are reflected currently in operations and are not material.

Research and Development Expenditures:
   Research and development expenditures are charged to income as incurred
   unless they are reimbursed under specific contracts.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments:
   Cash and cash equivalents include cash deposited in demand deposits at banks
   and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.

   During fiscal year 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
   Accounting Standard No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
   Equity Securities." Accordingly, the Company's short-term investments are
   classified as held-to-maturity. These investments consist primarily of
   commercial paper and bonds with original maturities of more than 90 days.
   Such short-term investments are carried at amortized cost, which approximates
   fair value, due to the short period of time to maturity. Gains and losses are
   included in investment income in the period they are realized.

Inventories:
   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-
   out basis, or market.


 
=======================================
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
=======================================


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Property, Plant and Equipment:
   Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided
   on the straight-line method for financial reporting and accelerated methods
   for tax purposes.

   Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes are 5 to 30 years for
   buildings and improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment.

   During fiscal 1996, the Company removed $7.7 million of fully depreciated
   fixed assets from the related property and accumulated depreciation accounts.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments:
   Financial instruments of the Company consist of cash, cash equivalents,
   accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The carrying
   value of these financial instruments approximates their fair value because of
   the short maturity of these instruments. Based upon borrowing rates currently
   available to the Company for issuance of similar debt with similar terms and
   remaining maturities, the estimated fair value of long-term debt approximates
   their carrying amounts.  The Company does not use derivative instruments.

Income Taxes:
   The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income
   taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and
   liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences
   attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
   of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. This
   method also requires the recognition of future tax benefits such as net
   operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that realization of such benefits
   is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
   using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
   which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
   The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is
   recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

Net Income Per Share:
   In fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, the computation of both primary and fully
   diluted earnings per share was based on the weighted average number of
   outstanding common shares. Fiscal 1997 does not include common stock
   equivalents since the effect would have been antidilutive. In fiscal 1996 and
   1995 the computation was based on the weighted average shares of common stock
   outstanding plus common equivalent shares arising from the effect of dilutive
   stock options and warrants, using the treasury stock method. The weighted
   average number of shares of common stock and common equivalent shares
   outstanding, if applicable, for the calculation of primary earnings per share
   was 9,848,000 in fiscal 1997, 8,755,000 in fiscal 1996, and 7,882,000 in
   fiscal 1995.


 
                                         =======================================
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         =======================================


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 1  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

New Accounting Standards:
   During fiscal 1997, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
   Statements No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
   for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" and No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-
   Based Compensation" (FAS 123).  The adoption of these standards had no
   material impact on the financial position or the results of operations of the
   Company in fiscal 1997.  Under FAS 123, the Company has elected not to adopt
   the new accounting method and will continue to account for its stock-based
   compensation under the existing provisions of Accounting Principles Board
   Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and
   related interpretations. Accordingly, the Company has provided pro-forma
   disclosures of net earnings and earnings per share assuming FAS 123 had been
   adopted. (See Note 7 for the additional disclosures required by FAS 123.)

Note 2  Company Operations

The Company operates in one industry segment: the development, production and
sale of microwave materials, devices and components. Sales include export sales
primarily to Europe and to a lesser extent Southeast Asia of $26,720,000,
$23,633,000, and $16,855,000, in fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.

During fiscal year 1997, one customer accounted for 11% of the Company's total
sales whereas, during fiscal years 1996 and 1995, no one customer accounted for
10% or more of the Company's total sales. The Company is focused on four major
OEMs and six other customers that the Company believes are principal suppliers
to these OEMs in the wireless communications market. For fiscal 1997 sales to
the four major OEMs and their suppliers represented approximately 26% of the
Company's sales. In fiscal 1995 and 1994 sales to these OEMs and their suppliers
represented approximately 29% and 17% of the Company's sales, respectively.
While the Company believes that these emerging wireless markets afford great
opportunities, such customer concentration could have an adverse affect on the
business.


 
=======================================
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
=======================================


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 2  Company Operations (continued)

During fiscal 1997, the Company operated a sales subsidiary in the United
Kingdom and a ceramic manufacturing operation in France. At the end of fiscal
1997, the Company sold its ceramic manufacturing operation in France. During
fiscal 1996, the Company closed its sales subsidiary in Germany and replaced it
with an independent sales representative and distributor. The following table
shows certain financial information relating to the Company's operations in
various geographic areas (in thousands):



================================================================================

Transfers between geographic areas are made at terms that allow for a reasonable
profit to the seller.

Note 3  Inventories


================================================================================

During fiscal 1997, the Company recorded a $2.6 million write-down of inventory
resulting from shifts in demand away from ceramic products.


 
                                         =======================================
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         =======================================


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 4  Borrowing Arrangements and Commitments

Line Of Credit

The Company has a $7.5 million Working Capital Line of Credit Agreement which
expires in October 1997. This line of credit is collateralized by the assets of
the Company, excluding real property, not otherwise collateralized.  A
commitment fee of 1/2% per year is due quarterly under the Agreement. At March
30, 1997, there was $1.0 million outstanding under the Agreement. At March 31,
1996, there was no outstanding balance under this Agreement.

Long-Term Debt


================================================================================
a. The equipment term note is at LIBOR (5.4375% at March 30, 1997 and March 31,
   1996) plus 3% and 2%, respectively. This note is collateralized by the assets
   of the Company, excluding real property, not otherwise collateralized.
   Principal payments of $137,871 plus interest are due monthly until August
   1999.

b. The mortgage note payable was paid in full during fiscal 1997.

c. An industrial revenue bond is held by the Farmers and Mechanics National
   Bank. The interest rate on this bond is prime (8.5% at March 30, 1997) and
   quarterly principal payments of $27,777 are due until March 2002. The bond is
   secured by various property, plant and equipment with a net book value of
   $2,697,000 at March 30, 1997.

d. The Company has three unsecured government sponsored and start-up business
   loans. The first loan has an interest rate of 8.75% and requires annual
   payments of $36,000 through December 1998. The second loan has an interest
   rate of 5% and requires quarterly principal and interest payments of $8,300
   through February 2000.  The third loan has an interest rate of 9.0% and
   requires principal and interest payments of $3,500 through January 1998.

e. The Company obtained a ten year $960,000 loan from the State of Maryland
   under the Community Development Block Grant program. Quarterly payments are
   due through December 2003 and represent principal plus interest at 5% of the
   unamortized balance.


 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 4  Borrowing Arrangements and Commitments (continued)


Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):


 
================================================================================

Capital Lease Obligations
 
Future minimum lease payments under the capitalized lease obligations at March
30, 1997 were as follows (in thousands):

 
================================================================================

Cash payments for interest were $470,000, $906,000, and $635,000 in fiscal 1997,
1996, and 1995,  respectively.

The bond, line of credit and term loan agreements include various covenants that
require maintenance of certain financial ratios and balances and restrict
creation of funded debt and payment of dividends. Under the most restrictive
covenants the Company may not pay dividends except restricted payments in an
amount not to exceed $100,000 in connection with the redemption of certain
common stock repurchase rights.


 
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         ---------------------------------------

Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 5  Repositioning Charge

During fiscal 1997, the Company successfully completed the resizing of Trans-
Tech, Inc.(TTI), its Maryland subsidiary, which included the sale of Trans-Tech
Europe (TTE), its French ceramic manufacturing operation, and the closing of the
TTI California facility.  The Company also completed the sale of the digital
radio product line.  The above actions resulted in a repositioning charge which
was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.  The charge included the
following items (in thousands):


The severance charges were related to a reduction in force of 47 employees,
largely among support personnel, and were completed in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1997.

The cash payments relating to the repositioning charge will total approximately
$1.4 million. As of March 31, 1997, cash payments totaling $308 thousand were
made. Approximately $971 thousand is expected to be paid in fiscal 1998 with the
remaining balance to be paid in fiscal 1999.

During fiscal 1996, the Company sold its Methuen, Massachusetts plant which
resulted in a $320 thousand repositioning credit attributable to the reversal
of certain accruals as a result of an earlier than expected disposition of this
facility.

Note 6  Income Taxes

Income (loss) before income taxes consisted of (in thousands):



 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 6  Income Taxes (continued)

The provision for income taxes is different from that which would be obtained by
applying the statutory Federal income tax rate to income (loss) before income
taxes. The items causing this difference are as follows (in thousands):


The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at March 30, 1997 and
March 31, 1996 are as follows (in thousands):


The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of March 30, 1997 and March
31, 1996 was $13,503,000 and $8,314,000, respectively. The net change in the
total valuation allowance for the years ended March 30, 1997 and March 31, 1996
was an increase of $5,189,000 and a decrease of $882,000, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes were $149,000, $241,000 and $157,000 in fiscal
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. As of March 30, 1997, the Company has
available for income tax purposes approximately $36,000,000 in federal net
operating loss carryforwards which may be used to offset future taxable income.
These loss carryforwards begin to expire in fiscal year 2004. Should the Company
undergo an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue
Code, the Company's tax net operating loss carryforwards generated prior to the
ownership change will be subject to an annual limitation which could reduce or
defer the utilization of these losses. The Company also has minimum tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $25,000 which are available to reduce future
federal regular income taxes, if any, over an indefinite period. In addition,
the Company has state tax credit carryforwards of $530,000 of which $218,000 is
available to reduce state income taxes over an indefinite period.


 
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         ---------------------------------------

Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 6  Income Taxes (continued)

The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability of approximately
$148,000 for the undistributed earnings of its 100 percent owned foreign
subsidiaries that arose in 1997 and prior years because the Company currently
does not expect those unremitted earnings to reverse and become taxable to the
Company in the foreseeable future. A deferred tax liability will be recognized
when the Company expects that it will recover those undistributed earnings in a
taxable manner, such as through receipt of dividends or sale of the investments.
As of March 30, 1997, the undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries were
approximately $436,000.

Note 7  Common Stock

Long-Term Incentive Plan

The Company has a Long-Term Incentive Plan adopted in 1986 pursuant to which
stock options, with or without stock appreciation rights, may be granted and
restricted stock awards and book value awards may be made.

     Common Stock Options
     These options may be granted in the form of incentive stock options or 
     non-qualified stock options. The option price may vary at the discretion of
     the Compensation Committee but shall not be less than the greater of fair
     market value or par value. The option term may not exceed ten years. The
     options may be exercised in cumulative annual increments commencing one
     year after the date of grant.

     Restricted Stock Awards
     No restricted shares of the Company's common stock were issued during
     fiscal 1997.  For fiscal 1996 and 1995, respectively, a total of 8,500 and
     31,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock were granted to
     certain employees.

     The market value of shares awarded were $51,000 and $147,000 for fiscal
     1996 and 1995, respectively. These amounts were recorded as unearned
     compensation - restricted stock and are shown as a separate component of
     stockholders' equity. Unearned compensation is being amortized to expense
     over the five year vesting period and amounted to $35,000, $61,000, and
     $64,000 in fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.

Long-Term Compensation Plan

On October 1, 1990, the Company adopted a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(SERP) for certain key executives. Benefits payable under this plan are based
upon the participant's base pay at retirement reduced by proceeds from the
exercise of certain stock options. Options vest over a five year period.
Benefits earned under the SERP are fully vested at age 55, however, the benefit
is ratably reduced if the participant retires prior to age 65. Compensation
expense related to the plan was $106,000, $62,000 and $68,000 in fiscal 1997,
1996, and 1995, respectively. Total benefits accrued under these plans were
$180,000 at March 30, 1997 and $515,000 at March 31, 1996.


 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 7  Common Stock (continued)

A summary of stock option and restricted stock award transactions follows:


The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable options as of March 30, 1997:



 
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 7  Common Stock (continued)

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" and related interpretations in accounting for its
stock option and employee stock purchase plans, accordingly, no compensation
expense has been recognized in the consolidated financial statements for such
plans.  The following assumptions were used in the calculation of these values
for fiscal years 1997 and 1996, respectively: volatility of  85%, risk free
interest rate of  7% and expected life of 9.95 years.  Had compensation cost for
the Company's stock option plans been determined based upon the fair value at
the grant date for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology
prescribed under SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation," the
Company's net income would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated
below:
 
The effect of applying SFAS 123 as shown in the above pro forma disclosure is
not representative of the pro forma effect on net income in future years because
it does not take into consideration proforma compensation expense related to
grants made prior to fiscal year 1996.

Stock Purchase Warrants

In April 1994, the Company amended its line of credit agreement and issued
50,000 stock purchase warrants to Silicon Valley Bank. The warrants are
exercisable at $3.75 per share and expire on April 1, 1999.

Stock Option Plan For Non-Employee Directors

On September 12, 1994, the shareholders approved a Non-Qualified Stock Option
Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  A total of 50,000 options may be granted under
this plan. The option price is the greater of the fair market value of the
shares of common stock at the time the option is granted or four dollars
($4.00). Options are exercisable 20% per year. No options were granted under
this plan during fiscal 1997. During fiscal 1996, a new director was elected to
the Board of Directors and 5,000 non-qualified stock options were issued at
$17.875 per share. In fiscal 1995, each of the three directors received 5,000
non-qualified stock options issued at $5.875 per share. No options have been
exercised under this plan.

Stock Purchase Plan

In December 1989, the Company adopted an employee stock purchase plan.  The plan
was amended in October 1992 to provide for six month offering periods. Under the
plan, eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions of
up to 10% of compensation.  The price per share is the lower of 85% of the
market price at the beginning or end of the offering period.  The plan
originally provided for purchases by employees of up to an aggregate of 300,000
shares through December 31, 1995. During fiscal 1996, the employee stock
purchase plan was amended and extended through December 31, 1998. Shares of
15,076, 16,836, and 28,875,  were purchased under this plan in fiscal 1997,
1996, and 1995, respectively.


 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 7  Common Stock (continued)

Shareholder Rights Plan

In December 1996, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend
distribution of one right for each outstanding share of common stock.  Each
right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one common
share at an exercise price of $40 per share.  A right will also be issued with
each common share that is issued prior to the time the rights become exercisable
or expire.

The rights are not exercisable until after a person or group acquires 10% or
more of the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more
of the common stock except with respect to persons who already hold 10% in which
case the threshold is any additional shares.  In such events, each holder shall
be entitled to purchase that number of shares of the Company's common stock
having a market value equal to two times the $40 per share exercise price.  In
lieu of such right, the Board of Directors may issue one share of common stock
for each right held by everyone except the acquiring person or group.  In the
event that the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination
transaction or more than 50% of its assets or earning power are sold, each
holder shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise of each right,
that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time
of such transaction would have a market value of two times the $40 per share
exercise price.

The Company is entitled to redeem the rights at one cent per share at any time
before the rights are exercisable. The rights will expire on December 5, 2006,
unless extended or unless the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged;
provided, however, that the Shareholder Rights Plan will terminate at the annual
meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held on September 8, 1997, if the
stockholders do not approve the Plan at that meeting.

Note 8  Employment Benefit Plan

On March 31, 1995, the Company merged its Employee Stock Ownership Plan into the
Alpha Industries, Inc. Saving and Retirement Plan also known as the 401(k) plan.
All of the Company's employees who are at least 21 years old and have completed
six months of service (1,000 hours in a 12 month period) with the Company are
eligible to receive a Company contribution.  Discretionary Company contributions
are determined by the Board of Directors and may be in the form of cash or the
Company's stock. The Company contributes a match of 100% of the first 1% and a
50% match on the next 4% of an employee's salary for employees with 5 years or
less of service. For employees with more than 5 years of service the Company
contributes a 100% match on the first 1% and a 75% match on the next 5% of an
employee's salary. For fiscal 1997, the Company contributed 110,956 shares of
the Company's common stock valued at $835,000 to the 401(k) plan.  During fiscal
1996, the Company contributed $101,000 for the first three quarters and accrued
$208,000 that was distributed in the form of the Company's stock in fiscal 1997.

Under the previous 401(k) plan all of the Company's employees who were at least
21 years old and had completed one year of service (1,000 hours in a 12 month
period) with the Company were eligible to receive a Company matching
contribution.  The Company contributed $.50 for each $1.00 contributed by
employees, up to a maximum Company matching contribution of $500 per employee
for fiscal 1995. For fiscal year 1995, the Company contributed $232,000.

Under the previous Employee Stock Ownership Plan contributions were determined
by the Board of Directors and contributed to a trust created to acquire shares
of the Company's common stock and other assets for the exclusive benefit of the
participants. The Company accrued a contribution of $226,000 for fiscal 1995
that was distributed during fiscal 1996.


 
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         ---------------------------------------


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

Note 9  Commitments And Contingencies

The Company has various operating leases for manufacturing and engineering
equipment and buildings. Rent expense amounted to $1,937,000, $1,626,000, and
$1,255,000 in fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Purchase options may be
exercised at various times for some of these leases. Future minimum payments
under these leases are as follows (in thousands):


The Company has been notified by federal and state environmental agencies of its
potential liability with respect to the Spectron, Inc. Superfund site in Elkton,
Maryland. Several hundred other companies have also been notified about their
potential liability regarding this site. The Company continues to deny that it
has any responsibility with respect to this site other than as a de minimis
                                                                 -- -------
party. Management is of the opinion that the outcome of the aforementioned
environmental matter will not have a material effect on the Company's operations
or financial position.

The Company is party to suits and claims arising in the normal course of
business. Management believes these are adequately provided for or will result
in no significant additional liability to the Company.

Note 10  Related Party Transactions

The Company has had transactions in the normal course of business with various
related parties. Scientific Components Corporation, currently a beneficial owner
of the Company's Common Stock purchased approximately $5.1 million, $4.3
million, and $1.9 million of products during fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995,
respectively. In addition, a director of the Company is also a director of
Scientific Atlanta, Inc. During fiscal 1997, 1996, and 1995, Scientific Atlanta,
Inc. purchased approximately $1 million,  $1.2 million, and $766 thousand of
product, respectively.


 
- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------


                          Independent Auditors' Report



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Alpha Industries, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Alpha Industries, Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index under Item 8. In connection
with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited
the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index under Item
14.  These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and  financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Alpha Industries,
Inc. and subsidiaries at March 30, 1997 and March 31, 1996, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended March 30, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
May 9, 1997


 
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------


Item 9  Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And 
        Financial Disclosure

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10  Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant

See the section entitled "Election of Directors" appearing in the Company's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September
8, 1997, to be filed within 120 days of the end of the Company's fiscal year,
which section is incorporated herein by reference, and the section entitled
"Executive Officers" under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11  Executive Compensation

See the section entitled "Executive Compensation" appearing in the Company's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on September
8, 1997, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12  Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management

See the section entitled "Securities Beneficially Owned by Certain Persons"
appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on September 8, 1997, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13  Certain Relationships And Related Transactions

See the section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on September 8, 1997, which section is incorporated
herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

Item 14  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, And Reports On Form 8-K

(a)  1.  Index to Financial Statements

         The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed on the
         index appearing on page 17.

     2.  Index to Financial Statement Schedules

         The following financial statement schedule is filed as part of this
         report (page references are to this report):

                Schedule II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (page 41)

         Other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
         which they are required or because the required information is
         presented in the financial statements or notes thereto.



- ----------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ----------------------------------------

 
     3.  Exhibits

         (3) Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.

             (a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Filed as Exhibit 3 (a)
                 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-
                 63857))*.

             (b) Amended and restated By-laws of the Corporation dated April 30,
                 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 3(b) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
                 for the year ended March 29, 1992)*.

         (4) Instruments defining rights of security holders, including
             indentures.

             (a) Specimen Certificate of Common Stock (Filed as Exhibit 4(a) to
                 Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-
                 63857))*.

             (b) Frederick County Industrial Development Revenue Bond, Deed of
                 Trust, Loan Agreement and Guaranty and Indemnification
                 Agreement dated June 17, 1982 (Filed as Exhibit 4(g) to the
                 Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed July 29, 1982)*. Bond
                 and Loan Document Modification Agreement dated December 9, 1993
                 (Filed as Exhibit 4(c) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                 the quarter ended December 26, 1993)*.

             (c) Amended and restated Shareholder Rights Agreement dated as of
                 December 5, 1996 between Registrant and American Stock Transfer
                 and Trust Company, as Rights Agent as amended and restated June
                 23, 1997.

             (d) Loan and Security Agreement dated December 15, 1993 between
                 Trans-Tech, Inc., and County Commissioners of Frederick County
                 (Filed as Exhibit 4(h) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                 the quarter ended July 3, 1994)*.

             (e) Stock Purchase Warrant for 50,000 shares of the Registrant's
                 Common Stock issued to Silicon Valley Bank as of April 1, 1994
                 (Filed as Exhibit 4(i) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                 the quarter ended July 3, 1994)*.

             (f) Credit Agreement dated September 29, 1995 between Alpha
                 Industries, Inc., and Trans-Tech Inc. and Fleet Bank of
                 Massachusetts, N.A. and Silicon Valley Bank. (Filed as Exhibit
                 4(j) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                 October 1, 1995)*; and as amended by Second Amendment dated as
                 of September 30, 1996, and as further amended by Third
                 Amendment dated as of June 12, 1997 and amended and restated
                 promissory notes dated as of June 12, 1997.

         (10) Material Contracts.

              (a) Alpha Industries, Inc., 1986 Long-Term Incentive Plan as
                  amended (Filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1994)*. (1)

              (b) Alpha Industries, Inc., Employee Stock Purchase Plan as
                  amended October 22, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10(b) to the Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 28, 1993)*
                  and amended August 22, 1995. (Filed as Exhibit 10(b) to the
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31,
                  1996)*. (1)

              (c) SERP Trust Agreement between the Registrant and the First
                  National Bank of Boston as Trustee dated April 8, 1991 (Filed
                  as Exhibit 10(c) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended March 31, 1991)*. (1)

              (d) Alpha Industries, Inc., Long-Term Compensation Plan dated
                  September 24, 1990 (Filed as Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29,
                  1992)*; amended March 28, 1991 (Filed as Exhibit 10 (a) to the
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27,
                  1993)* and as further amended October 27, 1994 (Filed as
                  Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended April 2, 1995)*. (1)



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                        ----------------------------------------
 
              (e) Master Equipment Lease Agreement between AT&T Commercial
                  Finance Corporation and the Registrant dated June 19, 1992
                  (Filed as Exhibit 10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended March 28, 1993)*.

              (f) Severance Agreement dated January 13, 1997 between the
                  Registrant and Thomas C. Leonard.(1)

              (g) Severance Agreement dated May 20, 1997 between the Registrant
                  and David J. Aldrich. (1)

              (h) Severance Agreement dated January 14, 1997 between the
                  Registrant and Richard Langman. (1)

              (i) Employment Agreement dated October 4, 1996 between the
                  Registrant and Martin J. Reid.(1)

              (j) Consulting Agreement dated August 13, 1992 between the
                  Registrant and Sidney Topol. (Filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3,
                  1994)*.(1)

              (k) Master Lease Agreement between Comdisco, Inc. and the
                  Registrant dated September 16, 1994 (Filed as Exhibit 10(q)
                  the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  October 2, 1994)*.

              (l) Alpha Industries, Inc., 1994 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan
                  for Non-Employee Directors (Filed as Exhibit 10(r) to the
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2,
                  1994)*. (1)

              (m) Alpha Industries Executive Compensation Plan dated January 1,
                  1995 and Trust for the Alpha Industries Executive Compensation
                  Plan dated January 3, 1995 (Filed as Exhibit 10(p) to the
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 2,
                  1995)*.(1)

              (n) Alpha Industries, Inc. Savings and Retirement 401(k) Plan
                  dated July 1, 1996.

              (o) Change in Control Agreement between the Registrant and Paul E.
                  Vincent dated August 23, 1996.(1)

              (p) Change in Control Agreement between the Registrant and James
                  C. Nemiah dated August 23, 1996.(1)

              (q) Severance Agreement dated April 30, 1996 between the
                  Registrant and Jean Pierre Gillard.(1)

              (r) Lease Agreement between MIE Properties, Inc. and Trans-Tech,
                  Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 10(r) to the Quarterly Report on Form
                  10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 1996)*.

         (11) Statement re computation of per share earnings.

         (21) Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         (23) Consent of Independent Auditors.

         (27) Financial Data Schedule.

              (b) Reports on Form 8-K

                  No reports on Form 8-K were filed with the Securities and
                  Exchange Commission during the fiscal quarter ended March 30,
                  1997.

              -------------------- 

*Not filed herewith. In accordance with Rule 12b-32 promulgated pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, reference is hereby made to
documents previously filed with the Commission, which are incorporated by
reference herein.

(1) Management Contracts.



- ---------------------------------------
Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- ---------------------------------------
 
                                   Signatures


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                             ALPHA INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                  (Registrant)

                 By:  /s/ THOMAS C. LEONARD
                    -----------------------------------------
                     Thomas C. Leonard, President

Date:  June 20, 1997

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on June 20, 1997.

 



                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Alpha Industries, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                         ---------------------------------------

                                  SCHEDULE II
 
Valuation And Qualifying Accounts
(In thousands)




