10-K


a15329e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT

OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005

Commission
file number 1-5560

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

04-2302115

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, Massachusetts

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(781) 376-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $0.25 par value

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).

þ

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).

o

Yes

þ

No

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant’s common stock as reported on the NASDAQ
National Market on the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter (April 1, 2005) was approximately $982,184,761. The number of outstanding shares of the
registrant’s common stock, par value $0.25 per share as of December 8, 2005 was 158,786,540.

The
Exhibit Index is located on page 84.

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005




In this document, the words “we”, “our”, “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. In addition, the following
industry standards are referenced throughout the document:

Skyworks, Breakthrough Simplicity, the star design logo, DCR, iPAC, LIPA, Lynx, Pegasus, Polar
Loop, Single Package Radio, SPR, System Smart, and Trans-Tech are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other
countries. All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective companies.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
Words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “should”, “could”, “seek”, “intends”,
“plans”, “potential”, “continue”, “estimates”, “anticipates”, “predicts” and similar expressions or
variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are
not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Additionally, forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:

Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the good faith
judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known
by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual
results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in
or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual
results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge
you to consider the risks and



uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report and in the other
documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commissions (“SEC”) in evaluating our
forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our
forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of
this report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date made.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains estimates made by independent parties and by us
relating to market size and growth and other industry data. These estimates involve a number of
assumptions and limitations and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to such estimates. In
addition, projections, assumptions and estimates of our future performance and the future
performance of the industries in which we operate are necessarily subject to a high degree of
uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”. These and other factors
could cause results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in the estimates made
by the independent parties and by us.

PART l

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an industry leader in radio solutions and
precision analog semiconductors servicing a diversified set of mobile communications customers. Our
front-end modules, radio solutions and multimode transceivers are at the heart of many of today’s
leading-edge multimedia handsets and wireless networking platforms. Skyworks also offers a
portfolio of highly innovative linear products, supporting a wide range of applications including
automotive, broadband, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, military, Radio Frequency
Identification (“RFID”), satellite and wireless data.

Skyworks was formed through the merger (“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement
and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16, 2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and
among Alpha, Conexant and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). For purposes of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are
collectively referred to as “Washington/Mexicali”. Shortly thereafter, Alpha, which was
incorporated in Delaware in 1962, changed its corporate name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts, and have executive offices in Irvine, California. We
have design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and service facilities throughout Asia,
Europe and North America. Our Internet address is www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our
website free of charge our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports as
soon as practicable after we electronically submit such material with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). The information contained in our website is not incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

We believe that the wireless industry is on the verge of another growth cycle. According to
Deutsche Bank, handset sales will have increased approximately 100% between 2001 and 2005 with
volumes expected to reach 772 million units in 2005, and are expected to grow to nearly 1 billion
units by 2008. Today, the worldwide penetration rate of wireless devices is less than 30%, given
the low subscriber adoption rates in some of the world’s largest countries such as China and India.
It is anticipated that approximately 993 million new subscribers will begin using wireless services
over the next five years, bringing the worldwide subscriber base to nearly 2.9 billion people by
2008 – or roughly 37% of the world’s population.

At that same time, handset growth is also being driven by replacement units purchased by existing
subscribers, as carriers introduce updated models, smaller form factors, added features and new
multimedia applications. More specifically, traditional voice services offered by wireless carriers
are being rapidly supplemented or augmented by the emergence of next-generation features such as
cameras, TVs, video gaming, Web browsing, and WiFi-based (802.11) wireless data applications. As
more and more features emerge within the handset, higher levels of semiconductor integration and
power efficient architectures are required. Furthermore, many services will be offered
simultaneously and over different frequencies, requiring agile, multimode operability.



Meanwhile, outside of the handset market, wireless technologies are rapidly proliferating as they
are the critical link between the analog and digital worlds. Core analog technology allows for the
detection, measurement, amplification and conversion of temperature, pressure and audio information
into the digital realm. According to the Semiconductor Industry Association, the total available
market for the analog semiconductor segment was $32 billion in 2005 and is expected to approach $50
billion in 2008. Today, this adjacent analog semiconductor market, which is characterized by longer
product lifecycles and higher gross margins, is highly fragmented and diversified among various
end-markets, customer bases and applications.

We believe that these market trends create a potentially significant opportunity for a broad-based
semiconductor supplier with a comprehensive product portfolio based on radio frequency and analog
technologies.



SKYWORKS’ STRATEGY

Skyworks’
vision is to become the premier supplier of radio solutions and precision analog
semiconductors for mobile communications applications. Key elements in our strategy include:

Leveraging Core Technologies

Skyworks deploys technology building blocks such as radio frequency integrated circuits,
analog/mixed-signal processing cores and digital baseband interfaces across multiple product
platforms. We believe that this approach creates economies of scale in research and development,
and facilitates a reduction in the time to market for key products.

Increasing Integration Levels

High levels of integration enhance the benefits of our products by reducing production costs
through the use of fewer external components, reduced board space and improved system assembly
yields. By combining all of the integral functionality, Skyworks can deliver additional
semiconductor content, thereby offering existing and potential customers more compelling and
cost-effective solutions.

Capturing an Increasing Amount of Semiconductor Content

We enable our customers to start with individual components as necessary, and then migrate up the
product integration ladder. We believe that our highly integrated solutions will enable these
customers to improve their time-to-market while focusing their resources on product differentiation
through a broader range of more sophisticated, next-generation features.

Focusing on a Leadership Customer Base

Skyworks
supports every top-tier wireless handset Original Equipment
Manufacturer (“OEM”) including Nokia Corporation, Motorola, Inc.,
Samsung Electronics Co., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and LG Electronics, Inc. At the
same time, we are diversifying our customer base as we introduce highly innovative linear products
in support of medical, automotive, consumer and broadband applications. We believe that the
efficiency learned from working with highly agile handset market leaders will prove to be a
competitive advantage in these newly addressed market areas.

Delivering Operational Excellence

The Skyworks operations team leverages world-class manufacturing technologies and enables highly
integrated modules, as well as system-level solutions. Skyworks strategy is to vertically
integrate where it can differentiate or will otherwise enter alliances and partnerships for
leading-edge capabilities. These partnerships and alliances are designed to ensure product
leadership and competitive advantage in the marketplace. We are focused on achieving the
industry’s shortest cycle times, highest yields and ultimately the lowest cost structure.

BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

To address the wireless industry opportunities discussed above and to execute our strategy, we have
aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. We believe
we possess a broad technology capability and one of the most complete wireless communications
product portfolios that, when coupled with key customer relationships with all major handset
manufacturers, positions us well to meet industry needs.



SKYWORKS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO

CDMA RF Subsystems

Amplifiers

DCR™ Transceivers

Attenuators

GPRS RF Subsystems

Chip Capacitors

GSM/GPRS/EDGE Power Amplifiers

Diodes

Helios™ DigRF Subsystem

Directional Couplers/Detectors

Helios™ EDGE RF Subsystems

Hybrids

Intera™ Front-End Modules

Infrastructure RF Subsystems

Lynx™ EDGE System Platforms

Phase Shifters

Pegasus™ GPRS System Platforms

Power Dividers/Combiners

PHS System Solutions

Receivers

SPR™ Solutions

Switches

TD-SCDMA Power Amplifiers

Synthesizers/PLLs

WCDMA/CDMA Power Amplifiers

Technical Ceramics

WCDMA FEMs

Transmitters

WCDMA Transceivers

WLAN Front-End Modules

Mobile Platforms:



Linear Products:

THE SKYWORKS ADVANTAGE

By turning complexity into simplicity, we provide our customers with the following competitive
advantages:

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team is globally
deployed across all major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales effort
with independent manufacturers’ representatives, assuring broader coverage of territories and
customers. We also utilize distribution partners, some of which are franchised globally with others
focused in specific regional markets (e.g., Europe, North America, China and Taiwan).

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for developing sales and
advertising literature, print media, such as product announcements and catalogs, as well as a
variety of Web-based content. Skyworks’ sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a
customer design. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the
inception of



a new program. This partnership allows our team to facilitate customer-driven
solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our portfolio while providing high value and
greatly reducing time-to-market.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an
extraordinary commitment to close ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we strive to
expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering, manufacturing,
purchasing and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these
partnerships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing
personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.

We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our
continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to
feedback, we are able to mobilize actions to raise the level of customer satisfaction, improve our
ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics.
We are confident that diligence in following this path will position Skyworks to participate in
numerous opportunities for growth in the future.

REVENUES FROM AND DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION

For information regarding customer concentration and revenues from external customers for our
reportable segment for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 15 of Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

We own or are licensed under numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications
related to our products, our manufacturing operations and processes and other activities. In
addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and
services. We believe that intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade
secrets and trademarks are of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright,
trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and
confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary
technologies, devices, algorithms and processes. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will
meaningfully protect our intellectual property, and others may independently develop substantially
equivalent proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms or processes. In addition, the laws of
some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the
United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be
available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our proprietary technologies and
processes, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to
obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual
property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims
against us. Due to rapid technological changes in the industry, we believe that establishing and
maintaining a technological leadership position depends primarily on our ability to develop new
innovative products through the technical competence of our engineering personnel.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete
on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, overall product quality and
performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, and
protection of our intellectual property. Certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than
we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to
devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic
relationships among themselves or with our customers, resellers, suppliers or other third parties.
These relationships may affect our customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible
that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant
market share. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against
current and potential competitors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances. Recognizing the
importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high level of research and development
activities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help
identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. Our design
centers are strategically located around the world to be in close proximity to our customers and to
take advantage of key technical and engineering talent worldwide. We are focusing our development
efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing processes using our core technologies. Our
research and development expenditures for fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 were $152.2, $152.6 and
$156.1 million, respectively.



RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several
sources. We do not carry significant inventories and it is our policy not to depend on a sole
source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. Consequently, there are
limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or
limited sources. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase
orders. However, we have a limited number of long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. We
believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our
manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world.

BACKLOG

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products, with
such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. Due
to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us
prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date
is not a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. We also deliver product to certain
external customer “hubs” (consignment) where our significant customers will pull inventory from
their existing consignment inventories when required. These consignment pulls trigger revenue
recognition and we periodically replenish these inventory levels.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment,
the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will
continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims has been accomplished without
material effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition.

Most of our European customers have mandated that our products comply with local and regional lead
free and other “green” initiatives. We believe that our current expenditures for environmental
capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing
environmental protection, and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will
not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or
financial condition. We cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements.

CYCLICALITY/ SEASONALITY

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by rapid technological change.
Product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving technical standards and shortened product life cycles
may contribute to wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These and other factors,
together with changes in general economic conditions, may cause significant upturns and downturns
in the industry, and in our business. We have experienced periods of industry downturns
characterized by
diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion
of average selling prices. These factors may cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and our
operational performance. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the
past and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.

Sales of our products are also subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in
end-user consumer applications, such as mobile handsets. This generally occurs in the last calendar
quarter ending in December. Sales of semiconductor products and system solutions used in these
products generally increase just prior to this quarter and continue at a higher level through the
end of the calendar year.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal
years, see Note 15 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EMPLOYEES

As of September 30, 2005, we employed approximately 4,000 persons. Approximately 800 employees in
Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our future success will depend
in large part upon our continued ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain highly skilled
and dedicated employees.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

We own and lease manufacturing facilities and other real estate properties in the United
States and a number of foreign countries. For information regarding property, plant and equipment
by geographic region for each of the last two fiscal years, see Note 15 of Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We own and lease approximately 885,000 square feet and 59,000 square feet,
respectively, of office and manufacturing space. In addition, we lease approximately 405,000 square
feet of sales office and design center space with approximately 23% of this space located in
foreign countries. We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and have executive offices in
Irvine, California. The following table sets forth our principal facilities measuring 50,000 square
feet or more:

Location

Owned/Leased

Primary Function

Woburn, Massachusetts

Owned

Corporate headquarters and manufacturing

Irvine, California

Leased

Office space and design center

Newbury Park, California

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Newbury Park, California

Leased

Design center

Adamstown, Maryland

Owned

Manufacturing and office space

Mexicali, Mexico

Owned

Assembly and test facility

Haverhill, Massachusetts

Owned

Vacant – building and land (under contract)

We believe our properties have been well maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain
all the equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels.

Certain of our facilities, including our California and Mexico facilities, are located near major
earthquake fault lines. We maintain no earthquake insurance with respect to these facilities.

In fiscal 2003, we relocated our operations from our Haverhill, Massachusetts facility to our
Woburn, Massachusetts, and Mexicali, Mexico facilities. In March 2004, we entered into a
contractual arrangement for the sale of the property, contingent upon obtaining specific regulatory
approvals. As of September 30, 2005, the prospective buyer had received a portion of these
regulatory approvals and anticipates receiving the remaining regulatory approval in 2006. If the
prospective buyer does not receive all regulatory approvals by June 30, 2006, the prospective buyer
has the option of terminating the original contract. Alternatively, the prospective buyer can
renegotiate or extend the original contract with our approval.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

From time to time various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future
be, instituted or asserted against Skyworks, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to Skyworks. Intellectual property
disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against Skyworks, could
materially and adversely affect the financial condition, or results of operations of Skyworks.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended
September 30, 2005.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “SWKS”. The
following table sets forth the range of high and low sale prices for our common stock for the
periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ National Market. The number of stockholders of
record of Skyworks’ common stock as of December 8, 2005,
was approximately 34,860.

High

Low

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2005:

First quarter

$

10.91

$

8.74

Second quarter

8.99

6.07

Third quarter

7.94

5.07

Fourth quarter

8.38

6.67

Fiscal year ended October 1, 2004:

First quarter

$

11.25

$

7.40

Second quarter

12.45

9.13

Third quarter

12.68

7.98

Fourth quarter

10.04

6.98

Neither Skyworks nor its corporate predecessor, Alpha, have paid cash dividends on common stock
since an Alpha dividend made in fiscal 1986, and Skyworks does not anticipate paying cash dividends
in the foreseeable future. Our expectation is to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to
finance future growth.

For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, see
Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

You should read the data set forth below in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” and our consolidated financial
statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our fiscal
year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2003 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on
October 3, 2003, and fiscal years 2005 and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on September
30, 2005, and October 1, 2004, respectively. For convenience, the consolidated financial
statements have been shown as ending on the last day of the calendar month. The following balance
sheet data and statements of operations data for the five years ended September 30, 2005, were
derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. Consolidated balance sheets at
September 30, 2005, and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations and of cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2005, and notes thereto appear
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Because the Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, a purchase of Alpha by
Washington/Mexicali, the historical financial statements of Washington/Mexicali became the
historical financial statements of Skyworks after the Merger. The historical information provided
below does not include the historical financial results of Alpha for periods prior to June 26,



2002, the date the Merger was consummated. The historical financial information may not be
indicative of our future performance and does not reflect what the results of operations and
financial position prior to the Merger would have been had Washington/Mexicali operated
independently of Conexant during the periods presented prior to the Merger or had the results of
Alpha been combined with those of Washington/Mexicali during the periods presented prior to the
Merger.

Fiscal Year




2002 (1)

2001 (1)

(In thousands)

Statement of Operations Data:

Net revenues

$

792,371

$

784,023

$

617,789

$

457,769

$

260,451

Cost of goods sold (2)

484,599

470,807

370,940

329,701

311,503

Gross profit (loss)

307,772

313,216

246,849

128,068

(51,052

)

Operating expenses:

Research and development

152,215

152,633

156,077

133,614

111,053

Selling, general and administrative

103,070

97,522

85,432

51,074

51,267

Amortization of intangible assets (3)

2,354

3,043

4,386

12,929

15,267

Purchased in-process research and development (4)

—

—

—

65,500

—

Special charges (5)

—

17,366

34,493

116,321

88,876

Total operating expenses

257,639

270,564

280,388

379,438

266,463

Operating income (loss)

50,133

42,652

(33,539

)

(251,370

)

(317,515

)

Interest expense

(14,597

)

(17,947

)

(21,403

)

(4,227

)

—

Other income (expense), net

5,453

1,691

1,317

(56

)


Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative
effect of change in accounting principle

40,989

26,396

(53,625

)

(255,653

)

(317,305

)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

15,378

3,984


(19,589

)

1,619

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle

25,611

22,412

(54,277

)

(236,064

)

(318,924

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
net of tax
(6)

—

—

(397,139

)

—

—

Net income (loss)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

$

(236,064

)

$

(318,924

)

Per share information (7):

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle, basic and diluted

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(0.39

)

$

(1.72

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
net of tax, basic and diluted (6)

—

—

(2.85

)

—

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(3.24

)

$

(1.72

)

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

337,747

$

282,613

$

249,279

$

79,769

$

60,540

Total assets

1,187,843

1,168,806

1,090,668

1,346,912

314,287

Long-term liabilities

237,044

235,932

280,677

184,309

3,806

Stockholders’ equity

792,564

751,623

673,175

1,014,976

287,661



(1)

The Merger was completed on June 25, 2002. Financial statements for periods prior to
June 26, 2002, represent Washington/Mexicali’s combined results and financial condition.
Financial statements for periods after June 25, 2002, represent the consolidated results
and financial condition of Skyworks, the combined company.

(2)

In fiscal 2001, we recorded $58.7 million of inventory write-downs.

(3)

Amounts in fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003 primarily reflect amortization of current
technology and customer relationships acquired in the Merger. Amounts in fiscal 2002 and
2001 primarily reflect amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets related to the
acquisition of Philsar Semiconductor, Inc. in fiscal 2000.

(4)

In fiscal 2002, we recorded purchased in-process research and development charges of
$65.5 million related to the Merger.

(5)

In fiscal 2004, we recorded special charges of $17.4 million, principally related to
the impairment of legacy technology licenses related to our cellular systems business and
certain restructuring charges. In fiscal 2003, we recorded special charges of $34.5
million, principally related to the impairment of assets related to our infrastructure
products and certain restructuring charges. In fiscal 2002, we recorded special charges of
$116.3 million, principally related to the impairment of the assembly and test machinery
and equipment and the related facility in Mexicali, Mexico, and the write-off of goodwill
and other intangible assets related to Philsar Semiconductor, Inc. In fiscal 2001, we
recorded special charges of $88.9 million, principally related to the impairment of
certain wafer fabrication assets and restructuring activities.

(6)

We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” on October 1, 2002. As a result of this adoption, we performed a
transitional evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Based
on this transitional evaluation, we determined that our goodwill was impaired and recorded
a $397.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in
fiscal 2003.

(7)

Prior to the Merger with Alpha Industries, Inc., Washington/Mexicali had no separate
capitalization. Therefore, a calculation cannot be performed for weighted average shares
outstanding to then calculate earnings per share.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that
appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the
following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially and adversely from those referred to herein
due to a number of factors, including but not limited to those described below and elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an industry leader in radio solutions and
precision analog semiconductors servicing a diversified set of mobile communications customers. Our
front-end modules, radio solutions and multimode transceivers are at the heart of many of today’s
leading-edge multimedia handsets and wireless networking
platforms. Skyworks also offers a portfolio of highly innovative linear products, supporting a wide
range of applications including automotive, broadband, consumer, industrial, infrastructure,
medical, military, Radio Frequency Identification (“RFID”), satellite and wireless data.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by rapid
technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short
product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, average
selling prices of established products have generally declined over time and this trend is expected
to continue in the future. Our operating results have been, and our operating results
may continue to be, negatively affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market
downturns due to a number of factors, such as changes in demand for end-user equipment, the timing
of the receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders, the gain or loss of
significant customers, market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products, our ability
to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, availability and
cost of products from suppliers, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes
in the mix of products produced and sold, intellectual property disputes, the



timing and extent of
product development costs and general economic conditions. In addition, we may discover from time
to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty
claims, replace products, or pay costs associated with the recall of a customer’s products
containing our parts.

BUSINESS FRAMEWORK

To address the wireless industry opportunities discussed above and execute to our strategy, we have
aligned our product portfolio around two markets: mobile platforms and linear products. We believe
we possess a broad technology capability and one of the most complete wireless communications
product portfolios that, when coupled with key customer relationships with all major handset
manufacturers, positions us well to meet industry needs.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

On June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16,
2001, as amended as of April 12, 2002, by and among Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”), Conexant
Systems, Inc. (“Conexant”) and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business, including its gallium
arsenide wafer fabrication facility located in Newbury Park, California, but excluding certain
assets and liabilities, Washington merged with and into Alpha with Alpha as the surviving entity
(the “Merger”). Immediately following the Merger, we purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly
and test facility located in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali
Operations”). The Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are collectively referred to
herein as “Washington/Mexicali”. Following the Merger, Alpha changed its corporate name to
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

Our fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2003 consisted of 53 weeks and
ended on October 3, 2003, and fiscal years 2005 and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on
September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, respectively. For convenience, the consolidated financial
statements have been shown as ending on the last day of the calendar month.

GENERAL

During fiscal 2005, certain key factors contributed to our overall results of operations and cash
flows from operations. More specifically, we:



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005, 2004 AND 2003

The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net
revenues for the fiscal years below:




Net revenues

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of goods sold

61.2

60.1

60.0

Gross margin

38.8

39.9

40.0

Operating expenses:

Research and development

19.2

19.5

25.3

Selling, general and administrative

13.0

12.4

13.8

Amortization of intangible assets

0.3

0.4

0.7

Special charges

—

2.2

5.6

Total operating expenses

32.5

34.5

45.4

Operating income (loss)

6.3

5.4

(5.4

)

Interest expense

(1.8

)

(2.3

)

(3.5

)

Other income, net

0.7

0.2

0.2

Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

5.2

3.3

(8.7

)

Provision for income taxes before cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle

2.0

0.5

0.1

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle

3.2

2.8

(8.8

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax.

—

—

(64.2

)

Net income (loss)

3.2

%

2.8

%

(73.0

)%

NET REVENUES

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Net revenues

$

792,371

1.1

%

$

784,023

26.9

%

$

617,789

We market and sell our semiconductor products and system solutions to leading Original Equipment
Manufacturers (“OEMs”) of communication electronics products, third-party original design
manufacturers (“ODMs”) and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components
distributors.

Net revenues increased slightly overall in fiscal 2005 when compared to fiscal 2004 primarily as a
result of increased demand in our RF product area. Revenues in aggregate dollars from our highly
integrated complex RF products more than doubled between fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005. This increase
in revenues was partially offset by an overall decrease in average selling prices in nearly all of
our product areas. Additionally, cellular systems revenue in
aggregate dollars declined 13.9% and
revenues from test and assembly declined by 63% due to the termination of the test and assembly
services arrangement with Conexant. Our revenues from the test and assembly business averaged $10.0
million per quarter in fiscal 2004 and were $5.0 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2005. We
fulfilled our manufacturing support obligation to Conexant on June 30, 2005.

Net revenues increased for fiscal 2004 when compared to the previous fiscal year primarily as the
result of increased demand for our wireless product portfolio. More specifically, we had launched a
number of more highly integrated product offerings, added to our customer base and expanded our
geographical market presence. Additionally, power amplifiers, front-end modules, RF subsystems and
complete cellular systems exhibited strong year-over-year growth. These increases in net revenues
were tempered by a decrease in average selling prices primarily within our single function products
and a decrease of approximately $15 million in net revenues for our assembly and test services as
demand for these services declined in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2004, the number of units we sold
increased by approximately 53% when compared to fiscal 2003, however
our average selling price across all products decreased in the aggregate by approximately 17% when
compared to the previous fiscal year.



For information regarding net revenues by geographic region and customer concentration for each of
the last three fiscal years, see Note 15 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

GROSS PROFIT

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Gross profit

$

307,772

(1.7

)%

$

313,216

26.9

%

$

246,849

% of net revenues

38.8

%

39.9

%

40.0

%

Gross profit represents net revenues less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists
primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation) associated with
product manufacturing, royalty and other intellectual property costs and sustaining engineering
expenses pertaining to products sold.

Gross profit for fiscal 2005 decreased by $5.4 million and gross profit margin decreased from 39.9%
to 38.8% from fiscal 2004. The decrease in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales was
primarily due to 1) continued additional costs associated with the ongoing launch of a number of
our more highly integrated products, 2) an unfavorable shift in product mix in the fourth fiscal
quarter, and 3) a one time payment to a customer of $3.2 million in the fourth fiscal quarter. A
decline in the assembly and test services provided to Conexant in conjunction with fixed overhead
and manufacturing costs in the assembly and test area also contributed to the decreased gross
profit margin between fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004.

Gross profit for fiscal 2004 benefited from increased operational efficiency through capacity
utilization when compared to the previous fiscal year. This benefit was partially offset by the
aforementioned decline in average selling prices and additional costs we incurred as we launched
and ramped a number of more highly integrated RF product offerings including our front-end modules
and single package radios.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Research and development

$

152,215

(0.3

)%

$

152,633

(2.2

)%

$

156,077

% of net revenues

19.2

%

19.5

%

25.3

%

Research and development expenses consist principally of direct personnel costs, costs for
pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, and design and test tool costs.

Research and development expenses in fiscal 2005 declined slightly when compared to fiscal 2004.
The decline is principally due to decreased incentive compensation costs. We remain committed to
streamlining and focusing product development efforts on next-generation, highly integrated
products to meet the needs of our customers.

We also reduced research and development expenditures in our cellular systems product area. More
specifically, we focused our product development on core front-end modules, RF subsystems,
infrastructure and next-generation solutions. Research and development expenses were lower in
fiscal 2004 when compared to the previous year as we realized benefits from cost saving initiatives
implemented in the previous two fiscal years.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Selling, general and administrative......

$

103,070

5.7

%

97,522

14.2

%

$

85,432

% of net revenues

13.0

%

12.4

%

13.8

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses include personnel costs (legal, accounting, treasury,
human resources, information systems, customer service, etc.), sales representative commissions,
advertising and other marketing costs.



The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal
2004 is primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense of $4.8 million between fiscal 2005 and
fiscal 2004. Additionally, costs incurred to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 contributed to the increase. The increased bad debt expense and
Sarbanes-Oxley fees were partially offset by reductions in incentive compensation costs and legal
costs due to the settlement of an intellectual property lawsuit.

The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2004 when compared to the
previous year is primarily attributable to an increase of approximately $5 million in legal
expenses related to protecting our intellectual property portfolio. In addition, we incurred
incentive related compensation expenses in fiscal 2004, which were not incurred in fiscal 2003. We
tie incentive compensation to the accomplishment of specific financial objectives each fiscal year
and met these objectives in fiscal 2004, whereas these objectives were not met in fiscal 2003.
During fiscal 2004, we also incurred information systems conversion costs, whereas these expenses
were not incurred in fiscal 2003. We transitioned our information systems services from Conexant
Systems, Inc. to a third-party service provider during the third quarter of fiscal 2004. These
increases in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2004 when compared to the
previous year were partially offset by realization of the benefit of cost saving initiatives
implemented in the previous two fiscal years.

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND WARRANTS

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Amortization of intangible assets

$

2,354

(22.6

)%

$

3,043

(30.6

)%

$

4,386

% of net revenues

0.3

%

0.4

%

0.7

%

In 2002, we recorded $36.4 million of intangible assets related to the Merger consisting of
developed technology, customer relationships and a trademark. These assets are principally being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a 10-year period. Amortization expense in fiscal 2005,
2004, and 2003 primarily represents the amortization of these intangible assets.

The decrease in amortization expense on intangible assets between fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 is
the result of $0.8 million in amortization expense recognized on certain warrants in 2004, while
only $0.2 million was recognized in fiscal 2005.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we wrote down certain intangible assets related to our
infrastructure business based on a recoverability analysis prepared by management in response to a
decline in demand for, and a decision to discontinue, certain infrastructure products. This
write-down established a new cost basis for these assets and resulted in a decrease in amortization
expense for fiscal 2004 when compared to fiscal 2003.

For additional information regarding goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

SPECIAL CHARGES

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Special charges

$

—

(100.0

)%

$

17,366

(49.7

)%

$

34,493

% of net revenues

0.0

%

2.2

%

5.6

%

No special charges were recorded in fiscal 2005.

Special charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring activities, as follows:

ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we recorded a $13.2 million charge primarily related
to the impairment of obsolete baseband technology licenses that were established prior to the
Merger. The impairment charge was based on a recoverability analysis prepared by management in
response to the decision to discontinue certain products and the related impact on its current and
projected outlook. Management believed these factors indicated that the carrying value of the
related assets



(intangible assets, machinery and equipment) was impaired and that an impairment
analysis should be performed. In performing the analysis for recoverability, management estimated
the future cash flows expected to result from these products (salvage value). Since the estimated
undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying value of the related assets, it was concluded
that an impairment loss should be recognized. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the impairment charge was determined by comparing the
estimated fair value of the related assets to their carrying value. The write down established a
new cost basis for the impaired assets.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we recorded a $26.0 million charge for the impairment of
assets related to certain infrastructure products manufactured in our Woburn, Massachusetts and
Adamstown, Maryland facilities. The Woburn facility primarily manufactures semiconductor products
based on both silicon wafer technology and gallium arsenide technology. Our Adamstown, Maryland
facility primarily manufactures ceramics components. We experienced a significant decline in
factory utilization resulting from a downturn in the market for products manufactured at these two
facilities and a decision to discontinue certain products. The impairment charge was based on a
recoverability analysis prepared by management based on these factors and the related impact on our
current and projected outlook. We projected lower revenues and new order volume for these products
and management believed these factors indicated that the carrying value of the related assets
(machinery, equipment and intangible assets) may have been impaired and that an impairment analysis
should be performed. In performing the analysis for recoverability, management estimated the future
cash flows expected to result from these products over a five-year period. Since the estimated
undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying value of the related assets, it was concluded
that an impairment loss should be recognized. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the impairment charge was determined by comparing the
estimated fair value of the related assets to their carrying value. The fair value of the assets
was determined by computing the present value of the estimated future cash flows using a discount
rate of 16%, which management believed was commensurate with the underlying risks associated with
the projected future cash flows. Management believes the assumptions used in the discounted cash
flow model represented a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the assets. The write down
established a new cost basis for the impaired assets. The anticipated pre-tax cost savings related
to these impairment charges is expected to be $5.3 million from fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2008 and
$8.6 million from fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2023. We realized actual savings from this asset
impairment of $12.1 million in fiscal 2004 and 2005. This amount related to depreciation expense
that was not recorded due to the impairment of the assets.

In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 we recorded a $2.3 million charge for the
impairment of our Haverhill, Massachusetts property based on a third party estimate of its fair
value. In fiscal 2003, we relocated our operations from this facility to our Woburn, Massachusetts
facility. In March 2004, we entered into a contractual arrangement for the sale of the property,
contingent upon obtaining specific regulatory approvals. As of September 30, 2005, the prospective
buyer (with our approval) had received a portion of these regulatory approvals and anticipates
receiving the remaining regulatory approval in 2006. If the prospective buyer does not
receive all regulatory approvals by June 30, 2006, the prospective buyer has the option of
terminating the original contract. Alternatively, the prospective buyer can renegotiate or extend
the original contract with our approval.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

During fiscal 2004, we consolidated cellular systems software design centers in an effort to
improve our overall time-to market for next-generation multimedia systems development. These
actions aligned our structure with our current business environment. We implemented reductions in
force at three remote facilities and recorded restructuring charges of approximately $4.2 million
for costs related to severance benefits for affected employees and lease obligations. Substantially
all amounts accrued for these actions have been paid as of September 30, 2005.

During fiscal 2003, we recorded $6.2 million in restructuring charges to provide for workforce
reductions and the consolidation of facilities. The charges were based upon estimates of the cost
of severance benefits for affected employees and lease cancellation, facility sales, and other
costs related to the consolidation of facilities. All amounts accrued for these actions have been
paid as of September 30, 2005.

For additional information regarding restructuring charges and liability balances, see Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.



INTEREST EXPENSE

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Interest expense

$

14,597

(18.7

)%

$

17,947

(16.1

)%

$

21,403

% of net revenues

1.8

%

2.3

%

3.5

%

Interest expense is comprised principally of payments on our $50.0 million credit facility
(“Facility Agreement”) and Junior notes payable.

The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2005 when compared to the previous fiscal year is due
to the conversion of our $45 million of senior subordinated notes into shares of our common stock
during fiscal 2004. Specifically, we recorded $12.5 million in interest expense and deferred
financing costs amortization on our $230 million Junior notes payable and $2.1 million in interest
expense on our $50 million line of credit facility.

The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2004 when compared to the previous fiscal year is
primarily related to the conversion of our $45 million of senior subordinated notes into shares of
our common stock during the third quarter of fiscal 2004. On April 22, 2004, we notified the holder
of the senior notes that we would redeem such notes in full on May 12, 2004. On May 6, 2004, the
holder of the senior notes converted such notes in full for approximately 5.7 million shares of our
common stock. We paid interest in cash on the senior notes on the last business day of each March,
June, September and December of each year. Interest paid on the senior notes is not deductible for
tax purposes because of the conversion feature.

For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

OTHER INCOME, NET

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Other income, net

$

5,453

222.5

%

$

1,691

28.4

%

$

1,317

% of net revenues

0.7

%

0.2

%

0.2

%

Other income, net is comprised primarily of interest income on invested cash balances,
foreign exchange gains/losses and other non-operating income and expense items.

The increase in other income, net between fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 is primarily due to higher
levels of interest bearing short-term investments in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 and
higher average interest rates in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004.

The increase in other income, net between fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 is primarily due to higher
levels of interest bearing short-term investments in fiscal 2004 and slightly higher short-term
interest rates.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Provision for income taxes

$

15,378

286.0

%

$

3,984

511.0

%

$


% of net revenues

2.0

%

0.5

%

0.1

%

Based upon a history of significant operating losses, management has determined that it is more
likely than not that historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized except for
certain future deductions associated with the Mexicali
Operations in the post-Merger period. Consequently, no U. S. income tax benefit has been recognized
relating to the U.S. operating losses. As of September 30, 2005, we established a valuation
allowance against all of our net U.S. deferred tax assets.

During fiscal 2005 we reduced the carrying value of our deferred tax assets by $3.7 million
relating to the tax benefit recorded in fiscal 2002 for the impairment of our assembly and test
machinery and equipment in Mexicali, Mexico. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, a charge of $2.2
million resulted from a reduction of the statutory income tax rate in Mexico. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period
that includes the enactment date. A charge of $2.3 million related to normal amortization of



the
tax benefit for tax over book depreciation. A favorable foreign translation adjustment of $0.8
million increased the deferred tax asset’s carrying value.

In addition, the provision for income taxes for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 consists of foreign
income taxes incurred by foreign operations. We do not expect to recognize any income tax benefits
relating to future operating losses generated in the United States until management determines that
such benefits are more likely than not to be realized.

The provision for income taxes for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 consists of approximately $11.1
million and $1.0 million, respectively, of U.S. income taxes recorded as a charge reducing the
carrying value of goodwill. No benefit has been recognized for utilizing certain pre-Merger
deferred tax assets. The utilization of these deferred items reduces the carrying value of
goodwill, i.e., charge in lieu of tax expense, instead of reducing income tax expense. We will
evaluate the realization of the pre-Merger deferred tax assets periodically and adjust the
provision for income taxes accordingly. As a result, the effective tax rate may vary in subsequent
periods.

No provision has been made for United States federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes
related to approximately $11.6 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which
have been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the
U.S. federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not
permanently reinvested.

In fiscal 2005 our subsidiary in Mexico dividended approximately $25.6 million of earnings to the
United States. Such earnings, which were not subject to Mexico withholding tax and could be
applied against U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, resulted in no significant U.S. income tax
expense. Earnings of our Mexico subsidiary are no longer considered permanently reinvested, and
accordingly, U.S. income taxes are provided on current earnings attributable to our earnings in
Mexico.

CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

Years Ended September 30,


Change


Change


(in thousands)

Cumulative
effect of change in
accounting
principle

$

—

—

$

—

100.0

%

$

(397,139

)

We adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, October 1, 2002 and performed a
transitional impairment test for goodwill. As a result, we determined that the carrying amount of
our goodwill was $397.1 million greater than its implied fair value. This transitional impairment
charge was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and is reflected in
our results of operations as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. We test our goodwill for impairment
annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events
occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. We completed our annual
goodwill impairment test for fiscal 2005 and determined that as of July 5, 2005, our goodwill was
not impaired.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Years Ended September 30

(in thousands)




Cash and cash equivalents at
beginning of period

$

123,505

$

161,506

$

53,358

Net cash provided by
(used in) operating
activities

54,197

91,913

(72,052

)

Net cash used in
investing
activities

(66,424

)

(141,044

)

(44,282

)

Net cash provided by
financing
activities

5,244

11,130

224,482

Cash and cash equivalents at
end of period

$

116,522

$

123,505

$

161,506



FISCAL 2005

During fiscal 2005, we generated $54.2 million in cash from operating activities. This was
principally attributable to increased revenues and lower overall operating expenses combined with
reduced interest expense and higher other income (primarily interest income). Non-cash charges
(including depreciation, charge in lieu of income tax expense, amortization and contribution of
common shares to savings and retirement plans) totaled $62.8 million. This was offset by a
reduction in liabilities of $21.1 million primarily related to payment of prior year incentive
compensation. Annualized inventory turns for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 were 6.2. Inventory
management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels
to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly
changing technology and customer requirements. Other decreases to cash provided by operating
activities resulted from an net increase in our receivable balances of $18.8 million offset by bad
debt provisions of $5.1 million. The increase in accounts receivable balances is due to the timing
and collection of customer receivables. The timing of purchasing patterns by our customers in our
industry affects the timing of our revenue recognition and our collections and is one of the
principal reasons for the increase in days sales outstanding from 66 at the end of fiscal 2004 to
82 at the end of fiscal 2005.

In October
2005, we were
notified by Vitelcom Mobile (one of our tier three customers)
that it had sustained significant weather related damage to one of its manufacturing facilities in
Mexico. Due to the business interruption caused by this event, the
customer notified us
that it would defer making cash payments on a previously arranged payment plan. While we currently
anticipate that this receivable will ultimately be collectible, the customer nevertheless is not
making timely payments on the amounts owed to us and thus our near term cash payments from this
customer remain uncertain.

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended September 30, 2005 consisted of $28.3 million
of net investments in auction rate securities and capital expenditures of $38.1 million. We
anticipate our capital expenditures will approximate $40 million in fiscal 2006. We believe a
focused program of capital expenditures will be required to sustain our current manufacturing
capabilities. Future capital expenditures will be funded by the generation of positive cash flows
from operations. We may also consider acquisition opportunities to extend our technology portfolio
and design expertise and to expand our product offerings.

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2005, consisted of $5.2
million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. We have short-term debt which
consists of a $50 million credit facility and long-term debt which consists of a $230 million
4.75% convertible subordinated note payable which will become due in November 2007. There were no
changes to the long-term and short-term debt balances in fiscal 2005. We expect to maintain these
balances through fiscal 2006. For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

FISCAL 2004

During fiscal 2004, we made progress in several key areas as we focused our efforts on both cash
and inventory management. We significantly reduced the number of days sales outstanding in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 to 66 from 88 for the same period in the previous fiscal year.
Annualized inventory turns for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 were 6.6. During fiscal 2004, we
also converted our 15 percent convertible senior subordinated notes into shares of our common
stock, ultimately reducing our future cash outflows and expenses related to the interest incurred
on these senior subordinated notes.

In fiscal 2004, we generated $91.9 million in cash from operating activities as we experienced a
significant improvement in our operating results when compared to the previous fiscal year. This
improvement was primarily attributable to increased net revenues in fiscal 2004, when compared to
the previous fiscal year, primarily resulting from increased demand for our wireless product
portfolio. More specifically, we had launched a number of more highly integrated product
offerings, added to our customer base and expanded our geographical market presence. In addition,
we reduced research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expense as a
percentage of net revenues to 31.9% in fiscal 2004, from 39.1% for the previous fiscal year. During
fiscal 2004, we invested $60.0 million in capital equipment primarily related to the design of new
highly integrated products and processes, enabling us to address new opportunities and to meet our
customers’ demands. In fiscal 2004 we made net investments of approximately $81 million in
short-term auction rate securities.

Cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2004 primarily represents an increase in borrowings
under our $50 million credit facility secured by the purchased accounts receivable with Wachovia
Bank, N.A.



FISCAL 2003

Cash used in operating activities was $72.1 million for fiscal 2003, reflecting a net loss of
$451.4 million, offset by non-cash charges (primarily asset impairments, depreciation and
amortization) of $489.2 million and a net decrease in working capital items of approximately $109.9
million, including $40.0 million of merger-related expense payments. As of September 30, 2003,
substantially all amounts accrued for merger-related expenses had
been paid. We adopted SFAS No. 142 on October 1, 2002, and recorded a $397.1 million
charge for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, representing the difference
between the implied fair value and carrying value of our goodwill.

Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2003 primarily consisted of capital expenditures of
$40.3 million. The capital expenditures for fiscal 2003 represented our continued investment in
production and test facilities in addition to our commitment to invest in the capital needed to
design new products and processes and address new opportunities to meet our customers’ demands.
Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2003 also included $4.0 million of purchases of
short-term investments. Our short-term investments were classified as held-to-maturity and
consisted primarily of commercial paper with original maturities of more than 90 days and less than
twelve months.

On August 11, 2003, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC with respect
to the issuance of up to $250 million aggregate principal amount of securities, including debt
securities, common or preferred shares, warrants or any combination thereof. This registration
statement, which the SEC declared effective on August 28, 2003, provides us with greater
flexibility and access to capital. On September 9, 2003, we issued 9.2 million shares of common
stock under our shelf registration statement. Cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2003
included approximately $102.2 million of net proceeds from this offering. We may from time to time
issue securities under the remaining balance of the shelf registration statement for general
corporate purposes.

Cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2003 also included the net impact of our private
placement of $230 million of 4.75 percent convertible
subordinated notes due November 2007 and related debt
refinancing with Conexant on November 13, 2002. These subordinated notes could be converted into
110.4911 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal balance, which is the equivalent of a
conversion price of approximately $9.05 per share. The net proceeds from the note offering were
principally used to prepay $105 million of the $150 million debt to Conexant relating to the
purchase of the Mexicali Operations and to prepay the $65 million principal amount outstanding as
of November 13, 2002, under a separate loan facility with Conexant. In connection with our
prepayment of $105 million of the $150 million debt owed to Conexant relating to the purchase of
the Mexicali Operations, the remaining $45 million principal balance was exchanged for new 15%
convertible senior subordinated notes with a maturity date of June 30, 2005. On April 22, 2004, we
notified the holder of the senior notes that we would redeem such notes in full on May 12, 2004.
On May 6, 2004, the holder of the senior notes converted such notes in full for approximately 5.7
million shares of our common stock. In addition to the retirement of $170 million in principal
amount of indebtedness owing to Conexant, we also retained approximately $53 million of net
proceeds of the private placement to support our working capital needs. In addition, as of
September 30, 2003, we had borrowings outstanding of $41.7 million under our $50 million credit
facility secured by the purchased accounts receivable with Wachovia Bank, N.A.

CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS

Following is a summary of our contractual payment obligations for consolidated debt, purchase
agreements and operating leases at September 30, 2005 (see Notes 7 and 11 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements), in thousands:

Payments Due By Period

Less Than 1

Obligation

Total

Year

1-3 years

3-5 Years

Thereafter

Debt

$

280,000

$

50,000

$

230,000

$

—

$

—

Operating leases

30,838

6,980

11,385

10,167

2,306

Other commitments

9,372

4,298

5,074

—

—

$

320,210

$

61,278

$

246,459

$

10,167

$

2,306

Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2005 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments, will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, debt
obligations, purchase obligations, working capital and other cash requirements for at least the
next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these expenses
will be available in the



future. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we
may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. If we are unable to
obtain enough capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all, our business and
operations could be materially adversely affected.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various
other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. To the extent actual results differ from those estimates, our
future results of operations may be affected. We believe the following critical accounting policies
affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of
our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, our actual losses may exceed our estimates, and additional allowances would be
required.

INVENTORIES

We assess the recoverability of inventories through an on-going review of inventory levels relative
to sales backlog and forecasts, product marketing plans and product life cycles. When the inventory
on hand exceeds the foreseeable demand (generally in excess of six months), we write down the value
of those excess inventories. In determining the net realizable value of our inventories, we review
the valuations of inventory considered excessively old, and therefore subject to obsolescence. We
also adjust the valuation of inventory when estimated actual cost is significantly different than
standard cost and to value inventory at the lower of cost or market. Once established, write-downs
of inventory are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of inventory. We sell our
products to communications equipment original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) that have designed
our products into equipment such as cellular handsets. These design wins are gained through a
lengthy sales cycle, which includes providing technical support to the OEM customer. In the event
of the loss of business from existing OEM customers, we may be unable to secure new customers for
our existing products without first achieving new design wins. Consequently, when the quantities of
inventory on hand exceed forecasted demand from existing OEM customers into whose products our
products have been designed, we generally will be unable to sell our excess inventories to others,
and the net realizable value of such inventories is generally estimated to be zero. The amount of
the write-down is the excess of historical cost over estimated realizable value (generally zero).
Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the
excess inventory. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual
demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those projected by management. In
the event that actual demand is lower than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs
may be required.

VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS, GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are
reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with SFAS No. 144, which was adopted on October 1, 2002. Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of
management whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any
such asset may not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition.
The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected
future operating performance. Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash
flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to our
business model or changes in our operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows
(excluding interest) is less than the carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as
the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Fair value is
determined using discounted cash flows.

Carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed annually
for possible impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, which was adopted on October 1, 2002. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first
step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair
value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states
quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. Step two of the
analysis compares the implied fair value of goodwill to its carrying amount in a manner similar to
purchase price allocation. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an
impairment loss is recognized equal to that excess. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as
of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter (July 1) and in interim periods if certain events
occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.



DEFERRED INCOME TAXES

We have provided a valuation allowance related to our substantial United States deferred tax
assets. If sufficient evidence of our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in
certain tax jurisdictions becomes apparent, we may be required to reduce our valuation allowance,
which may result in income tax benefits in our statement of operations. The future realization of
certain deferred tax assets will be applied to reduce the carrying value of goodwill. The portion
of the valuation allowance for these deferred tax assets for which subsequently recognized tax
benefits may be applied to reduce goodwill related to the purchase consideration of the Merger is
approximately $32 million. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assess the
need for a valuation allowance quarterly. In fiscal 2002, we recorded a tax benefit of
approximately $23 million related to the impairment of our Mexicali assets. A valuation allowance
has not been established because we believe that the related deferred tax asset will be recovered
during the carryforward period.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees is
recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other
criteria of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 — Revenue
Recognition (“SAB 104”) have been met.
Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings process is incomplete. Certain
product sales are made to electronic component distributors under agreements allowing for price
protection and/or a right of return on unsold products. A reserve for sales returns and allowances
for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event
necessitating a reserve.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151 “Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4”. The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period charges and require the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based
on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective for inventory costs
incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the
adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have a material impact on its financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”. SFAS No.
123(R) requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be
recognized in financial statements. That cost will be measured based on the fair value of the
equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS No. 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based
compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based
awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”. SFAS No. 123, as originally issued in 1995, established
as preferable a fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based payment transactions with
employees. However, that Statement permitted entities the option of continuing to apply the
guidance in APB Opinion No. 25, as long as the footnotes to financial statements disclosed what net
income would have been had the preferable fair-value-based method been used. Public entities (other
than those filing as small business issuers) were initially required to apply SFAS No. 123(R) as of
the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the
SEC issued a rule amending the compliance date, which allows companies to implement SFAS No. 123(R)
at the beginning of their next fiscal year, instead of the next reporting period, that begins after
June 15, 2005. As a result, we will implement SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method
starting October 1, 2005. Under this method, the Company will begin recognizing compensation cost
for equity-based compensation for all new and existing unvested share-based awards after the date
of adoption. The Company will also be required to recognize compensation expense for the fair value
of the discount and option features provided to employees on all shares issued through its Employee
Stock Purchase Plan under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Under the provisions of SFAS No.
123(R), the Company anticipates it will recognize $25.5 million as compensation expense in fiscal
years 2006 thru 2011. This assumes the current Black-Scholes valuation assumptions at September
30, 2005 remain constant in future periods. It also does not take into account future adjustments
to compensation expense due to actual cancellations or new awards granted.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets—an amendment of
APB Opinion No. 29”. The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions”,
is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair
value of the assets exchanged. The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, however, included certain
exceptions to that principle. SFAS No. 153 amends APB Opinion No. 29 to eliminate the exception for
nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for
exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective
for such exchange transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The
Company does not believe the impact of adopting SFAS No. 153 will have a material impact on its
financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1, “Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting
for Income Taxes, to the Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004”. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”) introduces a special 9% tax
deduction on qualified production activities. FSP No. 109-1 clarifies that this tax deduction
should be accounted for as a special tax deduction in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The Company
does not expect the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows because of its historical net operating
loss carryforwards.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the
Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004”. The AJCA
introduces for a limited time an 85% dividend deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign
earnings to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria are met. FSP 109-2
provides accounting and disclosure guidance for the repatriation provision. The Company does not
expect the adoption of FSP No. 109-2 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows because of its historical net operating loss
carryforwards.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143”. This interpretation provides
additional guidance as to when companies should record the fair value of a liability for a
conditional asset retirement obligation when there is uncertainty about the timing and/or method of
settlement of the obligation. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this
issue on its financial statements, but does not believe the impact of any change, if necessary,
will be material. FASB Interpretation No. 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December
15, 2005.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3”. This Statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20,
“Accounting Changes” and FASB Statement No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements—an amendment of APB Opinion No. 28”, and changes the requirements for the accounting for
and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
an accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the
unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. When a
pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should be followed. SFAS
No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and error corrections occurring in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005.

OTHER MATTERS

Inflation did not have a material impact upon our results of operations during the three-year
period ended September 30, 2005.

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS

We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, many of which are
beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks, which may affect our future
operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to
consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem
immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in
general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties
actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer.

We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject
to significant downturns.

We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change
and evolving industry standards. From time to time, changes in general economic conditions,
together with other factors, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry. Periods of
industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess
inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. These characteristics, and in
particular their impact on the level of demand for digital cellular handsets, may cause substantial
fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, downturns in the
semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any prolonged delay or failure of the
industry or the wireless communications market to recover from downturns would materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor
industry also periodically experiences increased
demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to meet customer demand
for our products. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business and may
experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.



We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience future losses.

Our operating results for fiscal years 2002 and 2003 were adversely affected by a global economic
slowdown, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, and adverse business conditions
and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries. These factors led to a
slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of
backlog, higher overhead costs as a percentage of our reduced net revenue, and an abrupt decline in
demand for many of the end-user products that incorporate our wireless communications semiconductor
products and system solutions. Although we emerged from this period of economic weakness in fiscal
2004, should economic conditions deteriorate for any reason, it could result in underutilization of
our manufacturing capacity, reduced revenues or changes in our revenue mix, and other impacts that
would materially and adversely affect our operating results. Due to this economic uncertainty,
although we were profitable in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, we cannot assure you that we will be
able to sustain such profitability or that we will not experience future operating losses.

Additionally, the conflict in Iraq, as well as other contemporary international conflicts, natural
disasters, acts of terrorism, and civil and military unrest contributes to the economic
uncertainty. These continuing and potentially escalating conflicts can also be expected to place
continued pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These conditions make
it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan
future business activities. If such uncertainty continues or economic conditions worsen (or both),
our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely
affected.

The wireless semiconductor markets are characterized by intense competition.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete
in particular are intensely competitive. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor
manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share. We currently face significant
competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue.
This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average
selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share.
Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in
communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors
and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors for
semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others:

We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our
competitors enjoy the benefit of:

As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Current and potential competitors have established or may in the future establish, financial or
strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These
relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant
market share. Furthermore, some of our customers have divisions that internally develop or
manufacture products similar to ours, and may compete with us. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition
could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in the accounting treatment of stock-based compensation will adversely affect our results
of operations.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based
Payment” to require companies to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes,
effective for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. Such stock option expensing
will require us to value our employee stock option grants pursuant to an option



valuation formula
and amortize that value against our earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options.
We currently account for stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and have adopted the
disclosure-only alternative of SFAS No. 123(R), “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” In April
2005, the SEC issued a rule amending the compliance date which allows companies to implement SFAS
123(R) at the beginning of their next fiscal year, instead of the next reporting period, that
begins after June 15, 2005. As a result, we implemented SFAS 123(R) in the reporting period
starting October 1, 2005. When we are required to expense employee stock options in the first
quarter of fiscal 2006, this change in accounting treatment will materially affect our reported
results of operations as the stock-based compensation expense will be charged directly against our
reported earnings but will have no impact on cash flows from operations. We anticipate that our
stock-based compensation expense will approximate $25.5 million in fiscal 2006 through 2011. This
expense projection is calculated as of September 30, 2005 and does not taken into account any
future equity awards that we might issue nor does it account for future actual stock-based award
forfeitures. We will be required to adjust future stock-based compensation expense for actual
future stock option forfeitures.

Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized.

Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including for causes beyond our
control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process
consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean
environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of
the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in
equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial
percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our
operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at
acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our
business. In addition, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have
been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty claims, replace products, or pay costs
associated with the recall of a customer’s products containing our parts.

Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at
any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may include
electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or
risks, or other natural or man-made disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could
cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected
facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, we
cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity,
would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly
and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could
result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient
manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external
manufacturing or similar arrangements with others.

Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing
process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts
semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would
not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our
gross margin and profitability.

Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing
yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new
products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume
manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward
product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result,
material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on
our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately
forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving
manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of
manufacturing semiconductor products. Our manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising
from the compression of product life cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products
faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality
without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher
manufacturing yields and declining costs.

We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products.

We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based
products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. We also utilize
subcontractors to package, assemble and test our products. There are significant risks associated
with reliance on third-party foundries, including:



•

the lack of ensured wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices,

•

limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and
quality
assurance, and

•

the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies.

Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing
capacity, the third-party foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to the production
requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an
extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products
from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver
products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly
since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity
occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore
experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could
impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.

We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.

Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the
components used in our manufacturing processes. We believe we have adequate sources for the supply
of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the
world. We cannot assure you that we will not lose a significant or sole supplier or that a supplier
will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. If we lost a
supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications or delivery
schedules, our ability to satisfy customer obligations could be materially and adversely affected.
In addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our
manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or
terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole supplier
arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely
on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source
supplier for epitaxial wafers used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at
our manufacturing facilities. To the extent we enter into additional sole supplier
arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply
arrangements would be exacerbated.

Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.

The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into
which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid
technological change, rapid product evolution, price erosion, evolving
technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration,
increased miniaturization, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating
results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced
products on a timely basis. The successful development and commercialization of semiconductor
devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including:

Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other
factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems (“IT
Systems”). We upgrade and change our IT Systems from time to time, and recently completed a system
upgrade, and there can be no assurance that such upgrade will be successful.

We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in
research and development needed to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products in a
timely manner. We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product
development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market
growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless
communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will
satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to anticipate
new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to
respond successfully to new product announcements and



introductions by competitors or to changes in
the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products
interface. If we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in
sufficient quantities and that meet our customers requirements, our business and results of
operations would be materially and adversely harmed.

In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. We believe
that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering
existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain
competitive.

The markets into which we sell our products are characterized by rapid technological change.

The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate. Our markets
generally exhibit the following characteristics:

These changes in our markets may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. Our products could
become obsolete or less competitive sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated
change in one or more of the above-noted factors.

The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development,
manufacture and sale of our products is critical to our success.

As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a
significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel.
The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry,
and therefore we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management
and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We
may have particular difficulty attracting and
retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance, given, among other things,
the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. The loss of the services of one or
more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel,
could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business.

If OEMs and ODMs of communications electronics products do not design our products into their
equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover, a “design win” from a customer
does not guarantee future sales to that customer.

Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other
products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to
select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without
these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs
another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to
achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost,
time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a
customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a
design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to
reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially
successful, or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design
wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and any failure to do so could materially and
adversely affect our operating results.

Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in
significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.

After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six
months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months
or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle
time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which
could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we
may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative
expenses, before we generate the related



revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never
generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer
cancels or changes its product plans.

Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our
business.

Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we
sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold
products. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our
products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs
indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will
then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change
their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product
orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated
order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in
inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.

Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations.

A significant portion of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost
one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its
orders of our products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Sales to our three
largest customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, represented approximately
38.4% of our net revenue for fiscal 2005. We expect that our largest customers will continue to
account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in fiscal 2006 and for the foreseeable future.

Average product life cycles in the semiconductor industry tend to be very short

.

In the semiconductor industry, product life cycles tend to be short relative to the sales and
development cycles. Therefore, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result
in material revenue, and from time to time we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory.
If we were to incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory that we are not
able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results would
be materially and adversely
affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions
but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed.

Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.

On September 30, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $280 million, which represented
approximately 27% of our total capitalization.

As long as our 4.75 percent convertible subordinated notes due November 2007 remain outstanding, we
will have debt service obligations on such notes of approximately $10,925,000 per year in interest
payments. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will
increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead
use our existing cash or investments, we may have to reduce or curtail other activities of our
business.

We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash expected to be generated by our
operations, and from our existing cash and investments. If necessary, among other alternatives, we
may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and we may obtain other long-term
debt, lines of credit and other financing.

Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including:

Despite our current debt levels, we are able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase
the risks described above.



We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.

We may need to obtain sources of financing in the future. We expect our existing sources of
liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund
our research and development, capital expenditures, debt obligations, purchase obligations, working
capital and other cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot assure
you that the capital required to fund these expenses will be available in the future. To the extent
that existing cash and securities and cash from operations are insufficient to fund our future
activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt
financing. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital markets, if and when we seek additional
financing as well as the then current condition of the Company, will affect our ability to raise
capital, as well as the terms of any such financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to
meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required would
have a material adverse effect on us.

In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our
business may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required
to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.

Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry
process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.

In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to
increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing
processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some
existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry
process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing
yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties,
delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the
future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to
smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to
effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If
our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently
implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect
to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party
intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of
design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.

A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United
States, primarily countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have
design centers and suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly
and test facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own
packaging, assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations
are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are
not limited to, risks regarding:



Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators
provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in handset prices that negatively
impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could
impact the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South
Korea, Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.

Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations
and market downturns.

Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues,
earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.

These factors include, among others:

The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could
materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results
fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect
the price of our common stock

.

Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect
our revenues and operating results.

Global economic weakness can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly
wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. Although the wireless
communications industry has recovered somewhat from an industry-wide recession, such recovery may
not continue. In addition, we cannot predict what effects negative events, such as war or other
international conflicts, may have on the economy or the wireless communications industry. The
continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this
threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the global economy and to
the wireless communications industry and create further uncertainties. Further, a continued
economic recovery may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or
maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired.

Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.

Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and
components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide
integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential
is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with
smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer
gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.
If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify
the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect
the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing
their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely-used process technologies
for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to identify products and markets that require performance
attributes of gallium arsenide solutions.



We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands
that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us
from using our technology.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual
property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert
patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology or refrain from using it.

Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe
intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual
indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and
divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the
merits of any specific claim, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation because of
the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to:

We cannot assure you that our operating results or financial condition will not be materially
adversely affected if we were required to do any one or more of the foregoing items.

Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties.

We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes; evolving
industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing
levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market
depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to
allow our products to remain in a competitive posture. If licenses to such technology are not
available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such
technology, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we
could lose market share. In such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or
scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products.

If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to
compete.

We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well
as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often
incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our
designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party
intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like
activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This
could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our
management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that:

•

the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of
our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other
third parties will be successful,

•

any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual
property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or

•

any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.

Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain
and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design
around our patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our
technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially
resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims
may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive
patent protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection
in foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret
protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.

There is a growing industry trend to include or adapt “open source” software that is generally made
available to the public by its developers, authors or third parties. Often such software includes
license provisions, requiring public disclosure of any derivative works containing open source
code. There is little legal precedent in the area of open source software or its effects on



copyright law or the protection of proprietary works. We take steps to avoid the use of open source
works in our proprietary software, and are taking steps to limit our suppliers from doing so.
However, in the event a copyright holder were to demonstrate in court that we have not complied
with a software license, we may be required to cease production or distribution of that work or to
publicly disclose the source code for our proprietary software, which may negatively affect our
operations or stock price.

We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through
operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or
current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our
authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems
or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our
operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the
methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and
acquisitions, and to integrate companies we acquire.

Although we have in the past and intend to continue to invest significant resources in internal
research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the
significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue
development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we intend to review
investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment
our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition
transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in:

Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult,
expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and
customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition,
we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment.
When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with
a charge against earnings. For instance, we recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle in fiscal 2003 in the amount of $397.1 million as a result of the goodwill obtained in
connection with the Merger.

Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for
someone to acquire control of us.

We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of
incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that
would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our
Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as:



Directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial
owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of Board of Directors in office
prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares,

•

a fair price provision, and

•

a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to
amend or repeal the fair price provision.

In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any
business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the
time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors
then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the
stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are
met.

Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our
existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce
our products.

The semiconductor and electronics industries have been subject to increasing environmental
regulations. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various
substances, a number of which have been used in our products or processes. For example, the
European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(RoHS) Directive requires that certain substances be removed from all electronics components by
July 1, 2006. Removing such substances requires the expenditure of additional research and
development funds to seek alternative substances, as well as increased testing by third-parties to
ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. Alternative substances
may not be readily available or commercially feasible, may only be available from a single source,
or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. While we have
implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, if we are
unable to complete the transition in a timely manner, or ensure consistent quality and product
yields with redesigned processes, our operations may be adversely affected.

We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could
adversely impact our business.

We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing
operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental
protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products would not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental
regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations
regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future
impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers
increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations.
We cannot assure you that the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to
satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with
applicable environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, you might not be
able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them.

The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such
fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:

Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility,
particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected
the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or
disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market
fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.



In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and our price-to-earnings
multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often
shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction,
particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Our company has been, and in the future may be, the
subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our
stock price. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you
paid.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

We are subject to market risks, such as changes in currency and interest rates that arise from
normal business operation. Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, short-term debt and long-term debt. Our main investment objective is the preservation
of investment capital. Consequently, we invest with only high-credit-quality issuers and we limit
the amount of our credit exposure to any one issuer. We do not use derivative instruments for
speculative or investment purposes.

Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short
maturities of these instruments. As of September 30, 2005, the carrying value of our cash and cash
equivalents approximates fair value.

Our short-term debt primarily consists of borrowings under our credit facility with Wachovia Bank,
N.A. As of September 30, 2005, we had borrowings of $50.0 million outstanding under this credit
facility. Interest related to our short-term debt is at LIBOR plus 0.4% and was approximately 4.2%
at September 30, 2005. Consequently, we do not have significant cash flow exposure on our
short-term debt.

We issued fixed-rate debt, which is convertible into our common stock at a predetermined conversion
price. Convertible debt has characteristics that give rise to both interest-rate risk and market
risk because the fair value of the convertible security is affected by both the current
interest-rate environment and the price of the underlying common stock. For the year ended
September 30, 2005, our convertible debt, on an if-converted basis, was not dilutive and, as a
result, had no impact on our net income per share (assuming dilution). In future periods, the debt
may be converted, or the if-converted method may be dilutive and net income per share (assuming
dilution) would be reduced. Our long-term debt consists of $230 million of 4.75% unsecured
convertible subordinated notes due November 2007. We do not believe that we have significant cash
flow exposure on our long-term debt.

Based on our overall evaluation of our market risk exposures from all of our financial instruments
at September 30, 2005, a near-term change in interest rates would not materially affect our
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is primarily the result of foreign
subsidiaries domiciled in various foreign countries. We do not currently use financial derivative
instruments to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with our foreign subsidiaries.
We estimate that we do not have any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2005 are included herewith:

(1)

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 38

(2)

Consolidated Balance
Sheets at September 30, 2005 and 2004

Page 39

(3)

Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the Years Ended September 30, 2005,
2004 and 2003

Page 40

(4)

Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the
Years Ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Page 41

(5)

Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows for the Years Ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Page 42

(6)

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 43 through 65



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of September 30, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2005. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 15 for the years ended September 30, 2005,
2004 and 2003. These consolidated financial statements
and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule for the years ended September 30,
2005, 2004, and 2003, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Skyworks Solutions, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated December 14, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s
assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG
LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 14, 2005



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

September 30,



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

116,522

$

123,505

Short-term investments

113,325

85,034

Restricted cash

6,013

6,013

Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of
$5,815 and $1,987, respectively

171,454

157,772

Inventories

77,400

79,572

Other current assets

11,268

11,968

Total current assets

495,982

463,864

Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization of $260,731 and $261,260, respectively

144,208

143,534

Property held for sale

6,630

6,475

Goodwill

493,389

504,493

Intangible assets, less accumulated amortization of $8,911 and $6,746,
respectively

17,730

19,895

Deferred tax assets

16,052

19,372

Other assets

13,852

11,173

Total assets

$

1,187,843

$

1,168,806

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Short-term debt

$

50,000

$

50,000

Accounts payable

72,276

73,405

Accrued compensation and benefits

19,679

36,630

Other current liabilities

16,280

21,216

Total current liabilities

158,235

181,251

Long-term debt, less current maturities

230,000

230,000

Other long-term liabilities

7,044

5,932

Total liabilities

395,279

417,183

Commitments and contingencies (Note 11 and Note 12)

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, no par value: 25,000 shares authorized, no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, $0.25 par value: 525,000 shares authorized; 158,625 and
156,012 shares issued and outstanding, respectively

39,656

39,003

Additional paid-in capital

1,327,631

1,312,603

Accumulated deficit

(573,586

)

(599,197

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(1,137

)

(786

)

Total stockholders’ equity

792,564

751,623

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

1,187,843

$

1,168,806

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Years Ended September 30,




Net revenues

$

792,371

$

784,023

$

617,789

Cost of goods sold

484,599

470,807

370,940

Gross profit

307,772

313,216

246,849

Operating expenses:

Research and development

152,215

152,633

156,077

Selling, general and administrative

103,070

97,522

85,432

Amortization of intangible assets

2,354

3,043

4,386

Special charges

—

17,366

34,493

Total operating expenses

257,639

270,564

280,388

Operating income (loss)

50,133

42,652

(33,539

)

Interest expense

(14,597

)

(17,947

)

(21,403

)

Other income, net

5,453

1,691

1,317

Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle

40,989

26,396

(53,625

)

Provision for income taxes

15,378

3,984


Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle

25,611

22,412

(54,277

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax

—

—

(397,139

)

Net income (loss)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

Per share information:

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, basic and diluted

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(0.39

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax,
basic and diluted

—

—

(2.85

)

Net income (loss), basic and diluted

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(3.24

)

Number of weighted-average shares used in per share computations,
basic

157,453

152,090

139,376

Number of weighted-average shares used in per share computations,
diluted

158,857

154,242

139,376

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(In thousands)

Par value

Accumulated

Shares of

of

Additional

Other

Total

Common

Common

Paid-in

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Unearned

Stockholders’

Stock

Stock

Capital

Deficit

Loss

Compensation

Equity

Balance at September 30, 2002

137,589

$

34,397

$

1,150,856

$

(170,193

)

$

—

$

(84

)

$

1,014,976

Net loss

—

—

—

(451,416

)

—

—

(451,416

)

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

(632

)

—

(632

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

(632

)

—

(632

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(452,048

)

Issuance of common shares in offering, net of
expenses

9,200

2,300

99,888

—

—

—

102,188

Issuance of common shares for stock purchase
plans, 401(k) and stock option plans

1,769


8,607

—

—

—

9,049

Amortization of unearned compensation

—

—

—

—

—



Adjustment to recapitalization as a result of
purchase accounting under a reverse acquisition
(1)

—

—

(1,543

)

—

—

—

(1,543

)

Issuance of common shares in trademark settlement




—

—

—


Balance at September 30, 2003

148,604

37,151

1,258,265

(621,609

)

(632

)

—

673,175

Net income

—

—

—

22,412

—

—

22,412

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

(154

)

—

(154

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

(154

)

—

(154

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

22,258

Issuance of common shares for stock purchase
plans, 401(k) and stock option plans

1,690


11,251

—

—

—

11,674

Issuance of common shares in conversion of
senior notes, net of expenses

5,718

1,429

42,908

—

—

—

44,337

Adjustment to issuance of common shares in
offering, net of expenses

—

—


—

—

—


Balance at September 30, 2004

156,012

39,003

1,312,603

(599,197

)

(786

)

—

751,623

Net income

—

—

—

25,611

—

—

25,611

Pension adjustment

—

—

—

—

(351

)

—

(351

)

Other comprehensive loss

—

—

—

—

(351

)

—

(351

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

25,260

Issuance of common shares for stock purchase
plans, 401(k) and stock option plans

2,452


14,932

—

—

—

15,545

Issuance and expense of restricted stock and
acceleration of options




—

—

—


Balance at September 30, 2005

158,625

$

39,656

$

1,327,631

$

(573,586

)

$

(1,137

)

$

—

$

792,564

(1)

Represents an adjustment to recapitalization as a result of purchase accounting under a
reverse acquisition, as reported in fiscal 2002, based on final valuations derived in
fiscal 2003.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

Years Ended September 30,




Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
provided by (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation

37,277

35,829

36,941

Charge in lieu of income tax expense

11,104

1,022

—

Amortization

2,354

3,043

4,386

Amortization of deferred financing costs

1,596

2,176

2,123

Contribution of common shares to Savings and
Retirement Plan

10,437

8,162

7,482

Gain on sales of assets



1,802

Deferred income taxes

3,253

3,055


Asset impairments

—

10,853

425,407

Provision for losses on accounts receivable

5,127


1,156

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition:

Receivables

(18,809

)

(13,882

)

(50,998

)

Inventories

2,172

(21,404

)

(2,525

)

Other assets

(3,706

)

3,794

6,369

Accounts payable

(1,129

)

23,036

5,019

Other liabilities

(21,118

)

13,406

(58,149

)

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

54,197

91,913

(72,052

)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures

(38,135

)

(59,998

)

(40,294

)

Sale of short-term investments

1,223,181

1,049,082

—

Purchase of short-term investments

(1,251,470

)

(1,130,128

)

(3,988

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(66,424

)

(141,044

)

(44,282

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from unsecured notes offering

—

—

230,000

Net proceeds from common stock public offering

—

—

102,188

Deferred financing costs

—

—

(10,474

)

Restricted cash

—

(701

)

(5,312

)

Proceeds from short-term debt

—

8,290

41,652

Payments on long-term debt

—


(135,139

)

Exercise of stock options

5,244

3,512

1,567

Net cash provided by financing activities

5,244

11,130

224,482

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(6,983

)

(38,001

)

108,148

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

123,505

161,506

53,358

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

116,522

$

123,505

$

161,506

Supplemental cash flow disclosures:

Taxes paid

$

1,221

$

2,206

$


Interest paid

$

13,030

$

15,845

$

21,061

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activities:

Senior Notes conversion

$

—

$

45,000

$

—

Conexant debt refinancing

$

—

$

—

$

45,000

Stock issued for trademark settlement

$

—

$

—

$


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. (“Skyworks” or the “Company”) is an industry leader in radio solutions and
precision analog semiconductors servicing a diversified set of mobile communications customers. The
Company’s front-end modules, radio solutions and multimode transceivers are at the heart of many of
today’s leading-edge multimedia handsets and wireless networking platforms. Skyworks also offers a
portfolio of highly innovative linear products, supporting a wide range of applications including
automotive, broadband, consumer, industrial, infrastructure, medical, military, Radio Frequency
Identification (“RFID”), satellite and wireless data.

Skyworks was formed through the merger (“Merger”) of the wireless business of Conexant Systems,
Inc. (“Conexant”) and Alpha Industries, Inc. (“Alpha”) on June 25, 2002, pursuant to an Agreement
and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of December 16, 2001, and amended as of April 12, 2002, by and
among Alpha, Conexant and Washington Sub, Inc. (“Washington”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Conexant to which Conexant spun off its wireless communications business. Pursuant to the Merger,
Washington merged with and into Alpha, with Alpha as the surviving corporation. Immediately
following the Merger, Alpha purchased Conexant’s semiconductor assembly and test facility located
in Mexicali, Mexico and certain related operations (the “Mexicali Operations”). For purposes of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Washington business and the Mexicali Operations are
collectively referred to as “Washington/Mexicali”. Shortly thereafter, Alpha changed its corporate
name to Skyworks Solutions, Inc.

NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The application of the Company’s accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and
assumptions that pertain to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from
these estimates. All majority owned subsidiaries are included in the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements and all intercompany balances are eliminated in consolidation.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenues from product sales are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title, in accordance with
the shipping terms specified in the arrangement with the customer. Revenue from license fees is
recognized when these fees are due and payable, and all other criteria of SAB 104 have been met.
Revenue recognition is deferred in all instances where the earnings process is incomplete. Certain
product sales are made to electronic component distributors under agreements allowing for price
protection and/or a right of return on unsold products. A reserve for sales returns and allowances
for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event
necessitating a reserve.

FISCAL YEAR

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal 2003 consisted of 53
weeks and fiscal years 2005
and 2004 each consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 ended on September 30, 2005,
October 1, 2004, and
October 3, 2003, respectively. For convenience, the consolidated financial statements have been
shown as ending on the last day
of the calendar month.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United
States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management reviews its estimates
based upon currently available
information. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents include cash deposited in demand deposits at banks and highly liquid
investments with original
maturities of 90 days or less as well as commercial paper with original maturities of 90 days or
less.



SHORT-TERM INVESMENTS

The Company’s short-term investments are classified as available for sale. These investments
consist of auction rate securities which have long-term underlying
maturities (ranging from 14 to 44 years), however the market
is highly liquid and the interest rates reset every 7, 28 or 35 days. The company’s intent is not
to hold these securities to maturity, but rather to use the interest rate reset feature to sell
securities to provide liquidity as needed. The company’s practice is to invest in these securities
for higher yields compared to cash equivalents. In prior years, auction rate securities have been
classified as cash equivalents due to their highly liquid nature. They have now been reclassified
as short-term investments for all periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. Such short-term investments are carried at amortized cost, which approximates fair
value, due to the short period of time to maturity. Gains and losses are included in investment
income in the period they are realized.

RECLASSIFICATION

In the second quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company concluded that it was appropriate to classify its
auction rate securities as short-term investments. Previously, such investments had been classified
as cash and cash equivalents. The Company made adjustments amounting to $81.0 million to its
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2004, to reflect this reclassification and made
adjustments to its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 2004
amounting to $81.0 million to reflect the gross purchases and sales of these securities as
investing activities rather than as a component of cash and cash equivalents. The Company did not
have any auction rate security investments in fiscal 2003. This change in classification did not
affect cash flows from operations or cash flows from financing activities in the previously
reported Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and had no impact on the previously reported
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Certain other reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s consolidated financial
statements to conform to the current year’s presentation.

RESTRICTED CASH

Restricted cash is primarily used to collateralize the Company’s obligation under a receivables
purchase agreement under which it has agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts
receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc. (“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is
fully consolidated for accounting purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement
with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing for a $50 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’)
secured by the purchased accounts receivable. For further information regarding the Facility
Agreement, please see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

LEASES AND AMORTIZATION OF LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS

In fiscal 2005, the Company recognized a $0.9 million charge for the correction of an error in the
manner in which it accounted for scheduled rent increases and amortization of leasehold
improvements. The cumulative effect of this error is being reported in the cost of goods sold,
research and development and selling, general and administrative lines of the statement of
operations amounting to $0.2 million, $0.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

Accounts receivable consist of amounts due from normal business activities. The Company maintains
allowances for doubtful
accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required
payments. If the financial condition
of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make future payments,
additional allowances may be required.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis, or market.
The Company provides for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. The recoverability of inventories is assessed through an
on-going review of inventory levels in relation to sales backlog and forecasts,
product marketing plans and product life cycles. When the inventory on hand exceeds the foreseeable
demand (generally in excess of six months), the value of such inventory that is not expected to be
sold at the time of the review is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of
historical cost over estimated realizable value (generally zero).



Once established, these
write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis of the excess inventory. If
actual demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management,
additional inventory write-downs may be required. Some or all of the inventories that have been
written-down may be retained and made available for sale. In the event that actual demand is higher
than originally projected, a portion of these inventories may be able to be sold in the future.
Inventories that have been written-down and are identified as obsolete are generally scrapped.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method. Significant renewals and betterments
are capitalized and equipment taken out of service is written off. Maintenance and repairs, as
well as renewals of a minor amount, are expensed as incurred.

Estimated useful lives used for depreciation purposes are 5 to 30 years for buildings and
improvements and 3 to 10 years for machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated
over the lesser of the economic life or the life of the associated lease.

PROPERTY HELD FOR SALE

Property held for sale at September 30, 2005, relates to land and buildings no longer in use and is
recorded at estimated fair value less estimated selling costs. In March 2004, we entered into a
contractual arrangement for the sale of the property, contingent upon obtaining specific regulatory
approvals. As of September 30, 2005, the prospective buyer had received a portion of these
regulatory approvals and anticipates receiving the remaining regulatory approval in 2006. If the
prospective buyer does not receive all regulatory approvals by June 30, 2006, the prospective buyer
has the option of terminating the original contract. Alternatively, the prospective buyer can
renegotiate or extend the original contract with the Company’s approval.

VALUATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

Carrying values for long-lived assets and definite lived intangible assets, which excludes
goodwill, are reviewed for possible impairment as circumstances warrant in connection with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Impairment reviews are conducted at the judgment of management
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset or
asset group may not be recoverable. The determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of an asset and its eventual disposition.
The estimate of cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected
future operating performance. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from
actual cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes
to the Company’s business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the
undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value of an asset or asset
group, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying
value exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. Fair value is determined using discounted
cash flows.

GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill
and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” The goodwill and other intangible asset impairment
test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares the Company’s fair
value to its net book value to determine if there is an indicator of impairment. In determining
fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states
quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. The Company calculates fair value using
the average market price of its common stock over a seven-day period surrounding the annual
impairment testing date of July 1 and the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date
of the annual impairment test (July 1). Step two of the analysis compares the implied fair value
of goodwill and other intangible assets to its carrying amount in a manner similar to a purchase
price allocation for a business combination. If the carrying amount of goodwill and
other intangible assets exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to
that excess. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually as of the
first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating
that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets may be impaired. Indicators such as
unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological change or
competitive activities, loss of key personnel, and acts by governments and courts, may signal that
an asset has become impaired.



DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS

Financing costs are capitalized as an asset on the Company’s balance sheet and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the financing.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. This method also requires the
recognition of future tax benefits such as net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that
realization of such benefits is more likely than not. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

The carrying value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able
to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and
assumptions. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in
additional income tax expense in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. Management
evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and assesses the adequacy of the valuation
allowance quarterly. Likewise, in the event that the Company was to determine that it would be able
to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an
adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income or decrease the carrying value of
goodwill in the period such determination was made.

It was the Company’s intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of its foreign
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 23. During the
fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, the Company reversed its policy of permanently reinvesting
the earnings of its Mexican business. This policy reversal increased the 2005 tax provision by $9.0
million. No provision has been made for U.S. federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes
that would be due upon the actual or deemed distribution of undistributed earnings of our other
foreign subsidiaries, which have been, or are intended to be, permanently reinvested.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term
debt and accrued liabilities approximates fair value due to short-term maturities of these assets
and liabilities. Fair values of long-term debt and short-term investments are based on quoted
market prices at the date of measurement.

FOREIGN CURRENCY ACCOUNTING

The foreign operations of the Company are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and foreign
currency transaction costs. The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is the
U.S. dollar. Exchange gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency are included in the results of operations for the year. Inventories,
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, costs of goods sold, and
depreciation and amortization are remeasured from the foreign currency into U.S. dollars at
historical exchange rates; other accounts are translated at current exchange rates. Gains and
losses resulting from the remeasurement of the Company’s long-term deferred tax assets are included
in the provision for income taxes and reduced tax expense by $0.8 million in fiscal 2005. Gains and
losses resulting from the
remeasurement of all other accounts are included in other income, net. The Company recognized a
gain of $0.2 million related to these remeasurements in fiscal 2005.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees”, and related interpretations, in accounting for employee stock
options and restricted stock rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed by SFAS No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”. APB No. 25 provides that compensation expense
relative to the Company’s employee stock options is measured based on the intrinsic value of stock
options granted at the grant date and the Company recognizes compensation expense, if any, in its
statement of operations using the straight-line method over the vesting period for fixed awards.



Under SFAS No. 123, the fair value of stock options at the date of grant is recognized in earnings
over the vesting period of the options. In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and
Disclosure”. SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a
voluntary change to the fair value method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In
addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent
disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method on reported results.

The Company granted 160,500 shares of restricted common stock during fiscal 2005. These shares were
accounted for under the intrinsic value method as prescribed in APB Opinion No. 25. Stock-based
compensation cost is determined as of the grant date based on the
market price of the underlying common stock and is
recognized as expense over vesting periods of four years. The restricted stock grants were valued
at approximately $843,000 of which approximately $79,000 was recognized as compensation expense in
fiscal 2005. The remaining unrecognized balance will be recognized as compensation expense ratably
over the life the vesting period of the restricted stock, which is
four (4) years.

On September 2, 2005, the Company accelerated certain unvested and “out-of-the-money” stock options
previously awarded to employees and officers that have exercise prices per share over $9.00 and
were granted prior to November 10, 2004. As a result, options to purchase approximately 3.8 million
shares of Skyworks stock became exercisable immediately upon the
announcement. The decision to accelerate vesting of these options was
made to avoid recognizing compensation cost associated with certain
“out-of-the-money” options in the statement of operations
in future financial statements upon the effectiveness of SFAS 123(R).
The Company chose the price of $9.00 so as to balance the
Company’s desire to manage
compensation expense with its need to motivate and retain employees. Based upon the
Company’s closing stock price of $7.52 on September 2, 2005, none of these options had economic
value on the date of acceleration, and no compensation expense resulted from the acceleration.

No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income for stock options, as all
options granted under the Company’s stock-based employee compensation plans had an exercise price
equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

If the compensation cost for the Company’s stock-based compensation and stock purchase plans had
been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards under these plans consistent
with the methodology prescribed under SFAS No. 123, the Company’s net income (loss) would have been
as follows:

Years Ended September 30,

(In thousands, except per share amounts)




Reported net income (loss)

$

25,611

$

22,412

$

(451,416

)

Total stock-based employee compensation
expense determined under fair value based
method for all stock options, net of related tax
effects(1)

(47,183

)

(17,992

)

(4,923

)

Restricted stock expense as calculated
under APB 25


—

—

Restricted stock expense as calculated
under FAS 123

(70

)

—

—

Adjusted net income (loss)

$

(21,563

)

$

4,420

$

(456,339

)

Per share information, basic and diluted:

Reported net income (loss)

$

0.16

$

0.15

$

(3.24

)

Total stock-based employee compensation
expense determined under fair value based
method for all awards, net of related tax
effects

(0.30

)

(0.12

)

(0.03

)

Adjusted net income (loss)

$

(0.14

)

$

0.03

$

(3.27

)

(1)

Reflected in the 2005 pro forma stock-based compensation expense is the effect of
the acceleration of the vesting of certain employee stock options in
September 2005 in the amount of $21.0 million.



For purposes of pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, the estimated fair value of the options
is assumed to be amortized to expense over the options’ vesting period. The fair value of the
options granted has been estimated at the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following assumptions:




Expected volatility


%


%


%

Risk free interest rate

3.9

%

1.9

%

2.5

%

Dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected option life (years)

3.5

5.0

4.5

Weighted average fair value of options granted

$

4.86

$

3.80

$

2.57

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average
number of common shares
outstanding. Diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of stock options and a stock
warrant through its expiration in January 2005, using the treasury stock method, and debt
securities on an if-converted basis, if their effect is dilutive. For the year ended September 30,
2005, debt securities convertible into 25.4 million shares and stock options exercisable into 25.5
million shares were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended September 30, 2004, debt
securities convertible into 25.4 million shares, stock options exercisable into 19.0 million shares
and a warrant to purchase 1.0 million shares were outstanding but were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the
year ended September 30, 2003, debt securities convertible into 31.1 million shares, stock options
exercisable into 25.8 million shares and a warrant to purchase 1.0 million shares were outstanding
but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as the net loss for this
period would have made their effect anti-dilutive.

PENSIONS AND RETIREE MEDICAL BENEFITS

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to approximately 20 Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in
Conexant’s Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care
benefits to members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer pension plans or retiree
benefits to its employees.

The costs and obligations of the Company’s pension and retiree medical plans are calculated using
many assumptions, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments
cease. The most significant assumptions, as presented in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, include discount rate, expected return on plan assets and future trends in health care
costs. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market
conditions at the time of valuation. Actual results may differ substantially from these
assumptions. These differences may significantly impact future pension or retiree medical expenses.

Annual pension and retiree medical expense is principally the sum of three components: 1) increase
in liability from interest; less 2) expected return on plan assets; and 3) other gains and losses
as described below. The expected return on plan assets is
calculated by applying an assumed long-term rate of return to the fair value of plan assets. In any
given year, actual returns can differ significantly from the expected return. Differences between
the actual and expected return on plan assets are combined with gains or losses resulting from the
revaluation of plan liabilities. Plan liabilities are revalued annually, based on updated
assumptions and information about the individuals covered by the plan. The combined gain or loss is
generally expensed evenly over the remaining years that employees are expected to work.

COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

The Company accounts for comprehensive loss in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 130,
“Reporting Comprehensive Income.” SFAS No. 130 is a financial statement presentation standard that
requires the Company to disclose non-owner changes



included in equity but not included in net
income or loss. Comprehensive loss presented in the financial statements consists of adjustments to
the Company’s minimum pension liability.

An analysis of accumulated other comprehensive loss follows (in thousands):

Accumulated

Other

Pension

Comprehensive

Adjustments

Loss

Balance as of September 30, 2003

$

(632

)

$

(632

)

Change in period

(154

)

(154

)

Balance as of September 30, 2004

(786

)

(786

)

Change in period

(351

)

(351

)

Balance as of September 30, 2005

$

(1,137

)

$

(1,137

)

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151 “Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4”. The amendments made by SFAS No. 151 clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period charges and require the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based
on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective for inventory costs
incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the
adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have a material impact on its financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”. SFAS No.
123(R) requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be
recognized in financial statements. That cost will be measured based on the fair value of the
equity or liability instruments issued. SFAS No. 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based
compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based
awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. SFAS No. 123(R) replaces
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”. SFAS No. 123, as originally issued in 1995, established
as preferable a fair-value-based method of accounting for share-based payment transactions with
employees. However, that Statement permitted entities the option of continuing to apply the
guidance in APB Opinion No. 25, as long as the footnotes to financial statements disclosed what net
income would have been had the preferable fair-value-based method been used. Public entities (other
than those filing as small business issuers) were initially required to apply SFAS No. 123(R) as of
the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the
SEC issued a rule amending the compliance date, which allows companies to implement SFAS No. 123(R)
at the beginning of their next fiscal year, instead of the next reporting period, that begins after
June 15, 2005. As a result, we will implement SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method
starting October 1, 2005. Under this method, the Company will begin recognizing compensation cost
for equity-based compensation for all new and existing unvested share-based awards after the date
of adoption. The Company will also be required to recognize compensation expense for the fair value
of the discount and option features provided to employees on all shares issued through its Employee
Stock Purchase Plan under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). Under the provisions of SFAS No.
123(R), the Company anticipates it will recognize $25.5 million as compensation expense in fiscal
years 2006 thru 2011. This
assumes the current Black-Scholes valuation assumptions at September 30, 2005 remain constant in
future periods. It also does not take into account future adjustments to compensation expense due
to actual cancellations or new awards granted.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, “Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets—an amendment of
APB Opinion No. 29”. The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions”,
is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair
value of the assets exchanged. The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, however, included certain
exceptions to that principle. SFAS No. 153 amends APB Opinion No. 29 to eliminate the exception for
nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for
exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective
for such exchange transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The
Company does not believe the impact of adopting SFAS No. 153 will have a material impact on its
financial statements.



In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-1, “Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting
for Income Taxes, to the Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004”. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”) introduces a special 9% tax
deduction on qualified production activities. FSP No. 109-1 clarifies that this tax deduction
should be accounted for as a special tax deduction in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The Company
does not expect the adoption of FSP No. 109-1 to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows because of its historical net
operating loss carryforwards.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP No. 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the
Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004”. The AJCA
introduces for a limited time an 85% dividend deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign
earnings to a U.S. taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria are met. FSP 109-2
provides accounting and disclosure guidance for the repatriation provision. The Company does not
expect the adoption of FSP No. 109-2 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows because of its historical net operating loss
carryforwards.

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, “Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143”. This interpretation provides
additional guidance as to when companies should record the fair value of a liability for a
conditional asset retirement obligation when there is uncertainty about the timing and/or method of
settlement of the obligation. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this
issue on its financial statements, but does not believe the impact of any change, if necessary,
will be material. FASB Interpretation No. 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December
15, 2005.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement
of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3”. This Statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20,
“Accounting Changes” and FASB Statement No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements—an amendment of APB Opinion No. 28”, and changes the requirements for the accounting for
and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in
an accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the
unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. When a
pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should be followed. SFAS
No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and error corrections occurring in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005.

NOTE 3. MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable
securities are categorized as available for sale and are summarized as follows as of
September 30, 2005 (in thousands):

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

113.3

$

—

$

—

$

113.3

Total marketable securities

$

113.3

$

—

$

—

$

113.3

The amortized cost of available for sale securities approximated their fair value at September 30,
2004 and are summarized as
follows:

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Short term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Auction rate securities

$

85.0

$

—

$

—

$

85.0

Total marketable securities

$

85.0

$

—

$

—

$

85.0



Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

Long term available for sale securities:

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Corporate debt securities

$

230.0

$

—

$

—

$

230.0

Total marketable securities

$

230.0

$

—

$

—

$

230.0

NOTE
4. INVENTORY

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

September 30,



Raw materials

$

8,080

$

12,176

Work-in-process

49,329

50,717

Finished goods

19,991

16,679

$

77,400

$

79,572

NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

September 30,



Land

$

9,423

$

9,423

Land and leasehold improvements

4,284

4,103

Buildings

59,586

50,305

Machinery and equipment

317,334

335,572

Construction in progress

14,312

5,391

404,939

404,794

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(260,731

)

(261,260

)

$

144,208

$

143,534

NOTE 6. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, on October 1, 2002, and
performed a transitional impairment test for goodwill. As a result, management determined that the
carrying amount of its goodwill was $397.1 million greater than its implied fair value. This
transitional impairment charge was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle and is reflected in the Company’s results of operations for fiscal 2003. The significant
impairment charge to goodwill shortly after the Merger resulted from a significant decline in the
market price of our common stock. The first step of the goodwill impairment analysis compares the
Company’s fair value to its net book value. In determining fair value, SFAS No. 142 allows for the
use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best
evidence of fair value. The Company hired a third-party firm to perform the fair value calculation
for the Merger and subsequent SFAS 142 valuation. The fair value calculation used to determine the
purchase price for the Merger was performed in December 2001, the date at
which both parties agreed upon the principal terms of the Merger. The calculation was based on the
average market price of the Company’s common stock over a seven-day period. This same methodology
was used to determine the fair value of the Company at October 1, 2002 for the required
transitional impairment test upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Between the time of the Merger
calculation in December 2001 and the SFAS No. 142 calculation in October 2002, the market price of
the Company’s
common stock declined as the wireless semiconductor industry experienced a downturn in demand amid
concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, adverse business
conditions and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries. Since the
Company’s fair value is directly linked to the market price of its common stock, a significant
decline in the market price of its common stock could, and in this case did, result in an
impairment charge to goodwill. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the
first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating
that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The Company completed its annual goodwill
impairment test for fiscal 2005 and determined that as of July 5, 2005, its goodwill was not
impaired.



Goodwill and intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):

Weighted

September 30, 2005

September 30, 2004

Average

Gross

Net

Gross

Net

Amortization

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

Period (Years)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Goodwill

$

493,389

$

—

$

493,389

$

504,493

$

—

$

504,493

Amortized intangible assets:

Developed technology


$

10,550

$

(4,651

)

$

5,899

$

10,550

$

(3,777

)

$

6,773

Customer
relationships


12,700

(4,138

)

8,562

12,700

(2,868

)

9,832

Other



(122

)

—


(101

)


23,372

(8,911

)

14,461

23,372

(6,746

)

16,626

Unamortized intangible assets:

Trademarks

3,269

—

3,269

3,269

—

3,269

Total intangible assets

$

26,641

$

(8,911

)

$

17,730

$

26,641

$

(6,746

)

$

19,895

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):

Years Ended September 30,




Amortization expense

$

2,165

$

2,286

$

3,545

The changes in the gross carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets are as follows:

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Developed

Customer

Goodwill

Technology

Relationships

Trademarks

Other

Total

Balance as of
September 30,

$

505,514

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

532,155

Deductions during
year

(1,021

)

—

—

—

—

(1,021

)

Balance as of
September 30,

$

504,493

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

531,134

Deductions
during
year

(11,104

)

—

—

—

—

(11,104

)

Balance as of
September 30,

$

493,389

$

10,550

$

12,700

$

3,269

$


$

520,030

The reduction to goodwill in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 results from the utilization of
deferred tax assets for which no tax benefit was recognized as of the date of the Merger. The
remaining pre-Merger deferred tax assets that could reduce goodwill in future periods are $31.9
million as of September 30, 2005.

Annual amortization expense related to intangible assets is expected to be as follows (in
thousands):






Amortization
expense

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144

$

2,144



NOTE 7. BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS

LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

September 30,



Junior notes

$

230,000

$

230,000

Less-current maturities

—

—

$

230,000

$

230,000

Junior notes represent the Company’s 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due November 2007. These
Junior notes can be converted into 110.4911 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal balance,
which is the equivalent of a conversion price of approximately $9.05 per share. The Company may
redeem the Junior notes at any time after November 20, 2005. The redemption price of the Junior
notes between the period November 20, 2005 through November 14, 2006, will be $1,011.875 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the
redemption date. The redemption price of the notes beginning on November 15, 2006 and thereafter
will be $1,000 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid
interest, if any, to the redemption date. Holders may require the Company to repurchase the Junior
notes upon a change in control of the Company. The Company pays interest in cash semi-annually in
arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The fair
value of the Company’s long-term debt approximated $231.2
million at September 30, 2005.

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Year


—


—


230,000

$

230,000

SHORT-TERM DEBT

On July 15, 2003, the Company entered into a receivables purchase agreement under which it has
agreed to sell from time to time certain of its accounts receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc.
(“Skyworks USA”), a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is fully consolidated for accounting
purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into an agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. providing
for a $50 million credit facility (“Facility Agreement’’) secured by the purchased accounts
receivable. As a part of the consolidation, any interest incurred by Skyworks USA related to
monies it borrows under the Facility Agreement is recorded as interest expense in the Company’s
results of operations. The Company performs collections and administrative functions on behalf of
Skyworks USA. Interest related to the Facility Agreement is at LIBOR plus 0.4%. As of September 30,
2005, Skyworks USA had borrowed $50.0 million under this agreement.

NOTE 8. INCOME TAXES

Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle consists
of the following components (in thousands)

Years Ended September 30,




United States

$

23,885

$

15,029

$

(59,379

)

Foreign

17,104

11,367

5,754

$

40,989

$

26,396

$

(53,625

)

The provision for income taxes from operations consists of the following (in thousands):

Years Ended September 30,




Current tax expense (benefit):

Federal

$


$

—

$

—

State

(1,032

)

(1,040

)

—

Foreign

1,178


1,414


(203

)

1,414



Years Ended September 30,




Deferred tax expense (benefit):

Federal

—

—

—

State

—

—

—

Foreign

3,761

3,165

(762

)

3,761

3,165

(762

)

Charge in lieu of tax
expense

11,104

1,022

—

Provision for income
taxes

$

15,378

$

3,984

$


The actual income tax expense reported for operations is different than that which would have been
computed by applying the federal statutory tax rate to income (loss) before income taxes and
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. A reconciliation of income tax expense as
computed at the U.S. Federal statutory income tax rate to the provision for income tax expense
follows (in thousands):

Years Ended September 30,




Tax (benefit) expense at U.S. statutory rate

$

14,346

$

9,239

$

(18,769

)

Foreign tax rate difference

(1,048

)


(1,362

)

Deemed dividend from foreign subsidiary

8,956

—

—

Nondeductible interest expense

—

1,162

2,113

Research and development credits

(5,000

)

(4,600

)

(5,369

)

State income taxes

(1,032

)

(1,040

)

—

Change in valuation allowance

(13,436

)

(2,466

)

25,168

Charge in lieu of tax expense

11,104

1,022

—

Other, net

1,488


(1,129

)

Provision for income taxes

$

15,378

$

3,984

$


The charge in lieu of tax expense resulted from partial recognition of certain acquired tax
benefits that were subject to a valuation allowance at the time of acquisition, the realization of
which required a reduction of goodwill.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities consist of the tax effects of temporary differences
related to the following (in thousands):

September 30,



Current:

Inventories

$

4,920

$

5,680

Bad debts

2,004


Accrued compensation and benefits

2,919

2,464

Product returns, allowances and warranty

1,247

4,027

Restructuring



Prepaid insurance

(818

)

—

Other – net

1,085

1,016

Current deferred tax assets

11,750

14,515

Less valuation allowance

(10,665

)

(13,499

)

Net current deferred tax assets

1,085

1,016

Long-term:

Property, plant and equipment

18,474

29,919

Intangible assets

7,406

8,240

Retirement benefits and deferred compensation

1,183

1,098

Net operating loss carryforwards

65,936

72,656

Federal tax credits

21,399

15,076

State investment credits

4,419

5,711

Restructuring

1,506

1,683



September 30

,



Other – net

1,136

1,000

Long-term deferred tax assets

121,459

135,383

Less valuation allowance

(105,408

)

(116,010

)

Net long-term deferred tax assets

16,051

19,373

Total deferred tax assets

$

17,136

$

20,389

Based upon a history of significant operating losses, management has determined that it is more
likely than not that historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized except for
certain future deductions associated with the Mexicali Operations in the post-Merger period.
Consequently, no U. S. income tax benefit has been recognized relating to the U.S. operating
losses.
As of September 30, 2005, the Company has established a valuation allowance against all of its net
U.S. deferred tax assets. The net change in the valuation allowance of $13.4 million is principally
due to the utilization of tax attributes, i.e. federal and state net operating loss and credit
carryovers, and other deferred tax assets. As noted above, the Company has a valuation allowance of
$116.1 million against its U.S. deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2005. When recognized, the
tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets at
September 30, 2005 will be accounted for as follows: approximately $80.3 million will be recognized
as a reduction of income tax expense, $31.9 million will be recognized as a reduction of goodwill
and $3.9 million will be recognized as an increase to shareholders’ equity for certain tax
deductions from employee stock options.

The provision for income taxes for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 consists of approximately $11.1
million and $1.0 million, respectively, of U.S. income taxes recorded as a charge reducing the
carrying value of goodwill. No benefit has been recognized for utilizing certain pre-Merger
deferred tax assets. The utilization of these deferred items reduces the carrying value of
goodwill, i.e., charge in lieu of tax expense, instead of reducing income tax expense. We will
evaluate the realization of the pre-Merger deferred tax assets periodically and adjust the
provision for income taxes accordingly based on whether the Company believes it is more likely than
not that the deferred tax assets will be realized during the carryforward period.

Deferred tax assets have been recognized for foreign operations when management believes they will
more likely than not be recovered during the carryforward period. The Company does not expect to
recognize any income tax benefits relating to future operating losses generated in the United
States until management determines that such benefits are more likely than not to be realized.

In 2002, the Company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $23 million related to the impairment
of its Mexicali assets. A valuation allowance has not been established because the Company believes
that the related deferred tax asset will more likely than not be recovered during the carryforward
period. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company reduced the carrying value of its
deferred tax assets by $2.2 million. This charge resulted from a reduction of the statutory income
tax rate in Mexico. Accordingly, the deferred tax asset was remeasured using the enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary difference is expected to
be recovered.

Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the Company’s long-term deferred tax assets
denominated in foreign currencies are included in provision (benefit) for income taxes and reduced
tax expense by $0.8 million in fiscal 2005, and increased tax expense by $1.2 million in fiscal
2004.

As of September 30, 2005, the Company has U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $180.6 million, which will expire at various dates through 2025 and aggregate state
net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $43.4 million, which will expire at various dates
through 2010. The Company also has U.S. federal and state income tax credit carryforwards of
approximately $25.8 million. The U.S. federal tax credits expire at various dates through 2025. The
use of the pre-Merger net operating loss and tax credit carryovers from Alpha will be limited due
to statutory tax restrictions resulting from the Merger and related change in ownership. The annual
limit on the utilization of pre-Merger net operating losses is approximately $14 million.
Utilization of pre-Merger credits would also be limited to the tax equivalent of the annual net
operating loss limitation.

No provision has been made for United States federal, state, or additional foreign income taxes
related to approximately $11.6 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have
been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the U. S.
federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings were not permanently
reinvested.

In fiscal 2005 our subsidiary in Mexico dividended approximately $25.6 million of earnings to the
United States. Such earnings, which were not subject to Mexico withholding tax and could be
applied against U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, resulted in no significant U.S. income tax
expense. Earnings of our Mexico subsidiary are no longer considered permanently reinvested, and
accordingly, U.S. income taxes are provided on current earnings attributable to our earnings in
Mexico.



On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”) was signed into law. The AJCA
provides incentives for U.S. multinational corporations, subject to certain limitations. The
incentives include an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled
foreign corporations that repatriate accumulated income abroad. Due to the existence and amount of
the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards, the Company will not benefit from this provision in
the AJCA.

NOTE 9. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

The Company is authorized to issue (1) 525,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per
share, and (2) 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value.

Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by the
Company’s Board of Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose. Dividends may not be
paid on common stock unless all accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, have been paid or
declared and set aside. In the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the
holders of common stock will be entitled to share pro rata in the assets remaining after payment to
creditors and after payment of the liquidation preference plus any unpaid dividends to holders of
any outstanding preferred stock.

Each holder of the Company’s common stock is entitled to one vote for each such share outstanding
in the holder’s name. No holder of common stock is entitled to cumulate votes in voting for
directors. The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that,
unless otherwise determined by the Company’s Board of Directors, no holder of common stock has any
preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any stock of any class which the Company may issue or
sell.

On August 11, 2003 the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC with
respect to the issuance of up to $250 million aggregate principal amount of securities, including
debt securities, common or preferred shares, warrants or any combination thereof. This registration
statement, which the SEC declared effective on August 28, 2003, provides the Company with greater
flexibility and access to capital. On September 9, 2003, the Company issued 9.2 million shares of
common stock under its shelf registration statement. The Company may from time to time issue
securities under the remaining balance of the shelf registration statement for general corporate
purposes.

At September 30, 2005, the Company had 158,625,057 shares of common stock issued and outstanding.

PREFERRED STOCK

The Company’s second amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits the Company to issue
up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and with rights and preferences
that may be fixed or designated by the Company’s Board of Directors without any further action by
the Company’s stockholders. The designation, powers, preferences, rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions of the preferred stock of each series will be fixed by the certificate
of designation relating to such series, which will specify the terms of the preferred stock. At
September 30, 2005, the Company had no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding.

STOCK OPTIONS

The Company has stock-based compensation plans under which employees and directors may be
granted options to purchase common stock. Options are generally granted with exercise prices at not
less than the fair market value on the grant date, generally vest over 4 years and expire 7 to 10
years after the grant date. As of September 30, 2005, a total of 36.5 million shares are
authorized for grant under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans. The number of common
shares reserved for granting of future awards to employees and
directors under these plans was 8.4 million at
September 30, 2005. In addition, options outstanding include
11.5 million options issued in connection with the Merger.

Pursuant to an exchange offer dated June 16, 2003 (the “Exchange Offer”), the Company offered a
stock option exchange program to its employees, other than its executive officers under Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, giving them the right to tender outstanding
stock options with an exercise price of $13.00 per share or more in



exchange for new options to be
issued six months and one day after the close of the Exchange Offer. On July 3, 2003, the
expiration date of the Company’s Exchange Offer, the Company accepted for exchange from eligible
employees, options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 5.3 million shares of the Company’s
common stock. These stock options were cancelled as of that date. Pursuant to the Exchange Offer, a
ratio was applied to the options accepted for exchange from eligible employees and on January 5,
2004, the Company issued new options to purchase approximately 3.4 million shares of the Company’s
common stock with an exercise price at fair market value ($9.60) in exchange for the options
cancelled in connection with the offer. These new options vest ratably over the 18 month period
from the date of grant. The Exchange Offer qualified for fixed accounting, and thus the Company
did not recognize compensation expense in connection with the grant of the replacement options
pursuant to the Exchange Offer.

A summary of stock option transactions follows (shares in thousands):

Weighted average

exercise price of

Shares

shares under plan

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2002

31,332

$

19.73

Granted

6,372

5.06

Exercised

(496

)

6.37

Accepted for exchange

(5,328

)

23.38

Cancelled

(6,117

)

20.21

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2003

25,763

$

15.44

Granted

7,351

9.16

Granted for options accepted for exchange

3,377

9.60

Exercised

(685

)

5.05

Cancelled

(4,043

)

15.61

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2004

31,763

$

13.63

Granted

4,668

8.47

Exercised

(935

)

5.57

Cancelled

(3,918

)

13.66

Balance outstanding at September 30, 2005

31,578

$

12.99

Options exercisable at the end of each fiscal year (shares in thousands):

Weighted average

Shares

exercise price


24,053

$

14.68


17,671

$

17.59


15,141

$

19.03

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and exercisable options
as of September 30, 2005 (shares in thousands):

Weighted

average

Weighted

remaining

average

Weighted

Range of exercise

Number

contractual

outstanding

Options

average exercise

prices

outstanding

life (years)

option price

exercisable

price

$0.45 - $5.75

4,620

6.9

$

4.64

2,248

$

4.50

$5.76 - $8.93

5,227

8.7

$

8.31


$

7.17

$8.96 - $9.18

4,680

8.3

$

9.17

4,358

$

9.18

$9.19 - $13.56

5,094

7.3

$

10.60

4,817

$

10.60

$13.67 - $17.12

5,687

3.1

$

16.36

5,667

$

16.37

$17.20 - $21.31

4,619

5.2

$

21.17

4,574

$

21.18

$21.56 - $170.44

1,651

4.2

$

34.87

1,622

$

35.05

31,578

6.4

$

12.99

24,053

$

14.68



STOCK OPTION DISTRIBUTION

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding options as of
September 30, 2005 (shares in thousands):

% of total

common

Number

stock

outstanding

outstanding

Stock options held by
employees and
directors

22,975

14.5

%

Stock options held by
non-employees (excluding
directors)

8,603

5.4

%

31,578

19.9

%

As of September 30, 2005, the Company’s ratio of options outstanding as a percentage of total
common stock outstanding (“overhang”) was 19.9%. The overhang attributable to options held by
non-employees (other than its non-employee directors) was 5.4% and the overhang attributable to
employees and directors was 14.5%.

In connection with the Merger, as of September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004, non-employees,
excluding directors, held 8,602,253 and 10,662,628 options at a weighted average price of $20.46
and $20.44, respectively. Effective June 25, 2002, in connection with the Merger, each Conexant
option holder, other than holders of options granted to employees of Conexant’s former Mindspeed
Technologies segment on March 30, 2001 and options held by persons in certain foreign locations,
received an option to purchase an equal number of shares of common stock of the Washington
subsidiary. In the Merger, each outstanding Washington option was converted into an option to
purchase Skyworks common stock. The conversion of Washington options into Skyworks’ options was
done in such a manner that (1) the aggregate intrinsic value of the options immediately before and
after the conversion was the same, (2) the ratio of the exercise price per option to the market
value per option was not reduced, and (3) the vesting provisions and options period of the
Skyworks’ options were the same as the original vesting terms and
option period of the corresponding Washington options. As a result, there are a large number of
options held by persons other than Skyworks’ employees and directors.

RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

The Company’s stock-based compensation plans provide for awards of restricted shares of common
stock and other stock-based incentive awards to officers and other employees and certain
non-employees. Restricted stock awards are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates during
the prescribed retention period (generally within four years of the date of award) or, in certain
cases, if prescribed performance criteria are not met. The fair value of restricted stock awards at
the date of grant is charged to expense over the vesting period. The Company granted 160,500 shares
of restricted common stock during fiscal 2005. These shares were accounted for under the intrinsic
value method as prescribed in APB Opinion No. 25. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the
grant date based on the market price of the underlying common stock and is being recognized as
expense over the vesting periods of four years. The restricted stock grants were valued at
approximately $843,000 of which approximately $79,000 was recognized as compensation expense in
fiscal 2005.



The
remaining unrecognized balance will be recorded as compensation expense ratably
over the vesting periods of the restricted stock of four (4) years. There were no restricted stock grants
awarded in fiscal 2004 or fiscal 2003.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS FOR DIRECTORS

The Company has three stock-based compensation plans for non-employee directors — the 1994
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and the Directors’ 2001
Stock Option Plan. Under the three plans, a total of 1.2 million shares have been authorized for
option grants. As of September 30, 2005, under the three plans, a total of 0.4 million shares are
available for new grants. The three plans have substantially similar terms and conditions and are
structured to provide options to non-employee directors as follows: a new director receives a total
of 45,000 options upon becoming a member of the Board; and continuing directors receive 15,000
options after each Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Under these plans, the option price is the fair
market value at the time the option is granted. Beginning in fiscal 2001, all options granted
become exercisable 25% per year beginning one year from the date of grant. Options granted prior
to fiscal 2001 become exercisable at a rate of 20% per year beginning one year from the date of
grant. During fiscal 2005, 165,000 options were granted under these plans at a weighted average
price of $5.80. At September 30, 2005, a total of 772,500 options at a weighted average price of
$10.54 are outstanding under these three plans, and 416,250 shares were exercisable at a weighted
average price of $12.94. During fiscal 2004, 15,000 options were exercised under these plans, and
during fiscal 2005 and 2003, no options were exercised under these plans. Non-employee directors
of the Company are also eligible to receive option grants under the Company’s 1996 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. The above-mentioned activity for the stock-based compensation plans for directors
is included in the option tables above.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

The Company maintains a domestic and an international employee stock purchase plan. Under
these plans, eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10%
of compensation. The price per share is the lower of 85% of the market price at the beginning or
end of each six-month offering period. The plans provide for purchases by employees of up to an
aggregate of 3,000,000 shares through December 31, 2012. Shares of common stock purchased under
these plans in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 824,211, 616,760, and 704,921, respectively. At
September 30, 2005, there are 84,613 shares available for purchase. The Company did not recognize
compensation expense under these plans in fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003.

STOCK WARRANTS

In connection with the Merger, the Company issued to Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. (“Jazz
Semiconductor”) a warrant to purchase 1,017,900 shares of Skyworks common stock at a price of
$24.02 per share. This warrant became exercisable in increments of 25% as of June 25, 2002, March
11, 2003, September 11, 2003 and March 11, 2004. The Company applied the Black-Scholes model to
determine the fair value estimate and approximately
$0.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.8 million was
included in amortization of intangible assets related to this item in
fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The warrant expired without being exercised on January 20, 2005.

NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN, PENSIONS AND OTHER RETIREE BENEFITS

The Company maintains a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of its employees. All of the
Company’s employees who are at least 21 years old are eligible to receive a Company contribution. Discretionary Company
contributions are determined by the Board of Directors and may be in the form of cash or the
Company’s stock. The Company generally contributes a match of up
to 4.0% of an employee’s annual eligible compensation. For those
employees employed by Alpha for five (5) years or more prior to
the Merger, the Company contributes an additional match of up to
0.75% of the employee’s annual eligible compensation. For
fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company contributed and recognized expense for 681,883,
392,744, and 560,516 shares, respectively, of the Company’s common stock valued at $5.1 million,
$3.6 million and $4.2 million, respectively, to fund the Company’s obligation under the 401(k)
plan.

In connection with Conexant’s spin-off of its Washington/Mexicali business, Conexant transferred
obligations to Washington/Mexicali for its pension plan and retiree benefits. The amounts that were
transferred relate to approximately 20 Washington/Mexicali employees that had enrolled in
Conexant’s Voluntary Early Retirement Plan (“VERP”) in 1998. The VERP also provides health care
benefits to members of the plan. The Company currently does not offer pension plans or retiree
benefits to its employees. The Company incurred net periodic benefit costs of $113,000, $108,000
and $119,000 for pension benefits in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company
incurred net periodic benefit costs of $118,000, $125,000 and $120,000 for retiree medical benefits
in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.



The funded status of the Company’s principal defined benefit and retiree medical benefit plans and
the amounts recognized in the balance sheet are as follows (in thousands):

Pension Benefits

Retiree Medical Benefits







Benefit obligations in excess
of plan assets

$

1,137

$


$

1,075

$

1,238

$

1,210

$

1,046

Unrecognized net actuarial loss

(1,301

)

(786

)

(632

)

—

—

—

Net accrued benefit cost

$

(164

)

$


$


$

1,238

$

1,210

$

1,046

NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS

The Company has various operating leases primarily for computer equipment and buildings. Rent
expense amounted to $9.8 million in both fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, and $10.4 million in fiscal
2003. Purchase options may be exercised, at fair market value, at various times for some of these
leases. Future minimum payments under these non-cancelable leases are as follows (in thousands):

Fiscal Year


$

6,980


6,031


5,354


5,305


4,862

Thereafter

2,306

$

30,838

In addition, the Company entered into licensing agreements for intellectual property rights and
maintenance and support services during fiscal 2004. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements,
the Company is committed to aggregate payments of $4.3 million, $3.4 million and $1.6 million in
fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively.

NOTE 12. CONTINGENCIES

From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be,
instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement,
intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and
contractual matters. In addition, in connection with the Merger, the Company has assumed
responsibility for all then current and future litigation (including environmental and intellectual
property proceedings) against Conexant or its subsidiaries in respect of the operations of
Conexant’s wireless business.

Additionally, the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of
intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future
assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims
or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Intellectual property disputes often
have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and
adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations.

From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We
believe that there is no such ordinary course litigation pending that could have, individually or
in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

NOTE 13. GUARANTEES AND INDEMNITIES

The Company does not currently have any guarantees. The Company generally indemnifies its
customers from third-party intellectual property infringement litigation claims related to its
products. In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for
certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.



The
Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware. The duration of
the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite. The indemnities to customers in connection
with product sales generally are subject to limits based upon the amount of the related product
sales and in many cases are subject to geographic and other restrictions. In certain instances, the
Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments
the Company could be obligated to make. The Company has not recorded any liability for these
indemnities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

NOTE 14. SPECIAL CHARGES

Special charges consists of the following (in thousands):

Years Ended September 30,




Asset
impairments

$

—

$

13,183

$

28,269

Restructuring

—

4,183

6,224

$

—

$

17,366

$

34,493

Special charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring activities, as follows:

ASSET IMPAIRMENTS

During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a $13.2 million charge
primarily related to the impairment of obsolete baseband technology licenses that were established
prior to the Merger. This charge included approximately $1.8 million of contractual payment
obligations, which have been paid in full as of September 30, 2005. The impairment charge was
based on a recoverability analysis prepared by management based on the
decision to discontinue certain products and the related impact on its current and projected
outlook. Management believed these factors indicated that the carrying value of the related assets
(intangible assets, machinery and equipment) was impaired and that an impairment analysis should be
performed. In performing the analysis for recoverability, management estimated the future cash
flows expected to result from these products (salvage value). Since the estimated undiscounted cash
flows were less than the carrying value of the related assets, it was concluded that an impairment
loss should be recognized. In accordance with SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, the impairment charge was determined by comparing the estimated
fair value of the related assets to their carrying value. The write down established a new cost
basis for the impaired assets.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company recorded a $26.0 million charge for the
impairment of assets related to certain infrastructure products manufactured in its Woburn,
Massachusetts and Adamstown, Maryland facilities. The Woburn facility primarily manufactures
semiconductor products based on both silicon wafer technology and gallium arsenide technology. The
Company’s Adamstown, Maryland facility primarily manufactures ceramics components. The Company
experienced a significant decline in factory utilization resulting from a downturn in the market
for products manufactured at these two facilities and a decision to discontinue certain products.
The impairment charge was based on a recoverability analysis prepared by management based on these
factors and the related impact on its current and projected outlook. The Company projected lower
revenues and new order volume for these products and management believed these factors indicated
that the carrying value of the related assets (machinery, equipment and intangible assets) may have
been impaired and that an impairment analysis should be performed. In performing the analysis for
recoverability, management estimated the future cash flows expected to result from these products
over a five-year period. Since the estimated undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying
value of the related assets, it was concluded that an impairment loss should be recognized. In
accordance with SFAS No. 144, the impairment charge was determined by comparing the estimated fair
value of the related assets to their carrying value. The fair value of the assets was determined by
computing the present value of the estimated future cash flows using a discount rate of 16%, which
management believed was commensurate with the underlying risks associated with the projected future
cash flows. Management believes the assumptions used in the discounted cash flow model represented
a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the assets. The write-down established a new cost basis
for the impaired assets.



In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 we recorded a $2.3 million charge for the
impairment of our Haverhill, Massachusetts property. In fiscal 2003, we relocated our operations
from this facility to our Woburn, Massachusetts and Mexicali, Mexico facilities.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

2004 Corporate Restructuring Plan

During fiscal 2004, the Company consolidated cellular systems software design centers in an effort
to improve the Company’s overall time to market for next-generation multimedia systems development.
These actions aligned the Company’s structure with its current business environment. The Company
implemented reductions in force at three remote facilities and recorded restructuring charges of
approximately $4.2 million for costs related to severance benefits for affected employees and lease
obligations. Substantially all amounts accrued for have been paid as of September 30, 2005.

Activity and liability balances related to the fiscal 2004 restructuring actions are as follows (in
thousands):

Workforce

Facility

Reductions

Closings

Total

Charged to costs and expenses

$

3,685

$


$

4,183

Cash payments

(3,530

)

(287

)

(3,817

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2004

$


$


$


Cash payments

(155

)

(198

)

(353

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2005

$

—

$


$


2003 Corporate Restructuring Plans

During fiscal 2003, the Company recorded $6.2 million in restructuring charges to provide for
workforce reductions and the consolidation of facilities. The charges were based upon estimates of
the cost of severance benefits for affected employees and lease cancellation, facility sales, and
other costs related to the consolidation of facilities. As of September 30, 2005, all amounts
accrued for these actions have been paid.

Activity and liability balances related to the fiscal 2003 restructuring actions are as follows (in
thousands):


Workforce

Facility Closings

Reductions

and Other

Total

Charged to costs and expenses

4,819

$

1,405

$

6,224

Cash payments

(3,510

)

(1,236

)

(4,746

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2003

$

1,309

$


$

1,478

Charged to costs and expenses


—


Cash payments

(1,777

)

(116

)

(1,893

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2004

$


$


$


Cash payments

(7

)

(53

)

(60

)

Restructuring balance, September 30, 2005

$

—

$

—

$

—

Pre-Merger Alpha Restructuring Plan

In addition, the Company assumed approximately $7.8 million of restructuring reserves from Alpha in
connection with the Merger. During fiscal 2005 and the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and
2003, payments related to the restructuring reserves assumed from Alpha were $0.2 million, $0.2
million, and $4.7 million, respectively. In addition, the Company reduced this restructuring
reserve by approximately $0.5 million in fiscal 2004 primarily related to a reduction in facility
closure costs. This reduction of expenses is reflected in the special charges line of the
Company’s results of operations. As of September 30, 2005, the restructuring reserve balance
related to Alpha was $1.0 million and primarily relates to estimated future payments on a lease
that expires in 2008.



NOTE 15. SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CONCENTRATIONS

The Company follows SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.” SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way public business enterprises report
information about operating segments in annual financial statements and in interim reports to
shareholders. The method for determining what information to report is based on the way that
management organizes the segments within the Company for making operating decisions and assessing
financial performance. In evaluating financial performance, management uses sales and operating
profit as the measure of the segments’ profit or loss. Based on the guidance in SFAS No. 131, the
Company has one operating segment for financial reporting purposes.

The Company operates in one business segment, which designs, develops, manufactures and markets
proprietary semiconductor products and system solutions for manufacturers of wireless communication
products.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

Net revenues by geographic area are presented based upon the country of destination. Net
revenues by geographic area are as follows (in thousands):

Years Ended September 30,




United States

$

66,429

$

74,105

$

87,691

Other Americas

39,541

51,537

69,559

Total Americas

105,970

125,642

157,250

China

215,082

206,364

119,385

South Korea

107,225

188,090

157,772

Taiwan

92,171

69,126

60,449

Other Asia-Pacific

144,940

64,570

38,983

Total Asia-Pacific

559,418

528,150

376,589

Europe, Middle East and Africa

126,983

130,231

83,950

$

792,371

$

784,023

$

617,789

The Company’s revenues by geography do not necessarily correlate to end handset demand by
region. For example, if the Company sells a power amplifier module to a customer in South
Korea, the sale is recorded within the South Korea account although that customer, in turn,
may integrate that module into a product sold to a service provider (its customer) in Africa,
China, Europe, the Middle East, the Americas or within South Korea.

The increase in net revenues derived from Other Asia-Pacific in fiscal 2005 as compared to
fiscal 2004 is due to the consolidation of the purchasing function of one of the Company’s
significant customers to Singapore in fiscal 2005 from other non-Asia Pacific locations.

The significant growth in net revenues derived from China in fiscal 2004 when compared to the
previous fiscal year reflects the Company’s market share gains across a number of domestic
cellular handset suppliers in the region and primarily represents sales of complete cellular
systems, DCR transceivers and front-end modules.

Geographic property, plant and equipment balances, including property held for sale, are based on
the physical locations within the indicated geographic areas and are as follows (in thousands):

September 30,



United States

$

85,072

$

81,356

Mexico

60,594

61,702

Other

5,172

6,951

$

150,838

$

150,009



CONCENTRATIONS

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist
principally of trade accounts receivable. Trade receivables are primarily derived from sales to
manufacturers of communications and consumer products. Ongoing credit evaluations of customers’
financial condition are performed and collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees,
are required whenever deemed necessary. As of September 30, 2005, Motorola, Inc. and RTI
International accounted for approximately 16% and 15%, respectively of the Company’s gross accounts
receivable. As of September 30, 2004 Motorola, Inc. represented approximately 12% and Samsung
Electronics Co. and RTI International each accounted for approximately 10% of the Company’s gross
accounts receivable. Samsung Electronics Co. accounted for 18% of the Company’s gross accounts
receivable balance at September 30, 2003.

The following customers accounted for 10% or more of net revenues:

Years Ended September 30,




Motorola, Inc.


%


%


%

Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB


%


%


%

Samsung Electronics Co.


%


%


%

NOTE 16. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(In thousands, except per share data)

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Quarter (3)

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter (2)

Year

Fiscal 2005

Net revenues

$

220,160

$

190,505

$

191,532

$

190,174

$

792,371

Gross profit

88,019

72,599

77,874

69,280

307,772

Net income

13,917

1,244

7,389

3,061

25,611

Per share data (1)

Net income, basic

0.09

0.01

0.05

0.02

0.16

Net income, diluted

0.09

0.01

0.05

0.02

0.16

Fiscal 2004

Net revenues

$

175,108

$

183,471

$

207,377

$

218,067

$

784,023

Gross profit

69,568

72,204

83,784

87,660

313,216

Net income (loss)

4,172

(9,421

)

13,030

14,631

22,412

Per share data (1)

Net income (loss), basic

0.03

(0.06

)

0.09

0.09

0.15

Net income (loss), diluted

0.03

(0.06

)

0.08

0.09

0.15

(1)

Earnings per share calculations for each of the quarters are based on the weighted
average number of shares outstanding and included common stock equivalents in each period.
Therefore, the sums of the quarters do not necessarily equal the full year earnings per
share.

(2)

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company reduced the carrying value of its
deferred tax assets by $3.5 million. This charge primarily originated from foreign
exchange translation errors after establishing the $23.1 million tax benefit recorded in
fiscal 2002 for the impairment of the Company’s assembly and test machinery and equipment
in Mexicali, Mexico immediately following completion of the Merger. The cumulative effect
of these errors was reported



in the provision for income taxes line of the statement of operations in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2004, as it did not have a material impact in prior periods. The aggregate $3.5
million charge and the effect on earnings per share, if any, are listed in the following table.

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Year

Fiscal 2004

Reduction to Mexicali deferred tax asset

$

(280

)

$

(62

)

$

(742

)

$

(72

)

$

(1,156

)

Effect on diluted earnings per share, if any

—

—

—

—

(0.01

)

Fiscal 2003

Reduction to Mexicali deferred tax asset

$


$

(1,153

)

$


$

(1,414

)

$

(2,052

)

Effect on diluted earnings per share, if any

—

(0.01

)

—

(0.01

)

(0.01

)

Fiscal 2002

Reduction to Mexicali deferred tax asset

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

(256

)

$

(256

)

Effect on diluted earnings per share, if any

—

—

—

—

—

(1)

During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company reduced the carrying value of its
deferred tax assets by $2.2 million. This charge resulted from a reduction of the
statutory income tax rate in Mexico. This reduction is being reported in the provision for
income taxes line of the statement of operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Skyworks’ management, with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, evaluated the effectiveness of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 30, 2005. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management
necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures. Based on the evaluation of Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures as of
September 30, 2005, Skyworks’ chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that,
as of such date, Skyworks’ disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable
assurance level.

Management’s report on Skyworks’ internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the independent registered public accounting
firm’s related audit report are included below in this Item 9A. of this Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of Skyworks Solutions, Inc., is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) under the U.S.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our management, under the supervision of the principal executive
officer and the principal financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting using the framework in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Based upon the evaluation performed under the COSO framework as of September 30, 2005, management
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective.



KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has audited management’s assessment
and independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2005, as stated in their report which is included below.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Skyworks Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, that Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Skyworks Solutions, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
Also, in our opinion, Skyworks Solutions, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, based on criteria established
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of September 30, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended September 30, 2005, and our report dated
December 14, 2005 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

/s/ KPMG
LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 14, 2005



ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION.

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

The following table sets forth for each director of the Company and the current executive
officers of the Company, their ages and present positions with the Company:

Name

Age

Title

Dwight W. Decker


Chairman of the Board

David J. Aldrich


President, Chief Executive

Officer and Director

Allan M. Kline


Vice President and Chief

Financial Officer

Kevin D. Barber


Senior Vice President and

General Manager, Mobile

Platforms

Liam K. Griffin


Senior Vice President, Sales

and Marketing

George M. LeVan


Vice President, Human

Resources

Stanley A. Swearingen, Jr.


Vice President and General

Manager, Linear Products

Mark V.B. Tremallo


Vice President, General

Counsel and Secretary

Gregory L. Waters


Executive Vice President

Kevin L. Beebe


Director

Moiz M. Beguwala


Director

Timothy R. Furey


Director

Balakrishnan S. Iyer


Director

Thomas C. Leonard


Director

David P. McGlade


Director

David J. McLachlan


Director

Dwight W. Decker

, age 55, has been Chairman of the Board since June 2002. Dr. Decker has also
served as Chairman of the Board of Conexant Systems, Inc. (a broadband communication semiconductor
company) since December 1998 and has served as a director of Conexant since 1996. Since November
2004, Dr. Decker has also served as Conexant’s Chief Executive Officer, a position he previously
held from December 1998 until March 2004. He served as Senior Vice President of Rockwell
International Corporation (now, Rockwell Automation, Inc.) (electronic controls and communications)
and President, Rockwell Semiconductor Systems (now Conexant) from July 1998 to December 1998;
Senior Vice President of Rockwell; and President, Rockwell Semiconductor Systems and Electronic Commerce prior thereto. Dr. Decker is also a director
of Mindspeed



Technologies, Inc. (networking infrastructure semiconductors), Pacific Mutual Holding
Company (life insurance) and Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. (semiconductor wafer foundry). He is also a
director or member of numerous professional and civic organizations.

David J. Aldrich

, age 48, has served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of the
Company since April 2000. From September 1999 to April 2000, Mr. Aldrich served as President and
Chief Operating Officer. From May 1996 to May 1999, when he was appointed Executive Vice President,
Mr. Aldrich served as Vice President and General Manager of the semiconductor products business
unit. Mr. Aldrich joined the Company in 1995 as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer. From 1989 to 1995, Mr. Aldrich held senior management positions at M/A-COM, Inc.
(developer and manufacturer of radio frequency and microwave semiconductors, components and IP
networking solutions), including Manager Integrated Circuits Active Products, Corporate Vice
President Strategic Planning, Director of Finance and Administration and Director of Strategic
Initiatives with the Microelectronics Division.

Allan
M. Kline

, age 60, has been Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since January 2004. From May 2003 until January 2004, Mr. Kline served as Chief Financial Officer of Fibermark, Inc., a producer of specialty
fiber-based materials that filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code (“U.S.B.C.”) on
November 15, 2004. Prior to this, from June 1996 to February 2002,
Mr. Kline served as Chief Financial Officer for Acterna Corporation, a global communications test
and management company that filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the
U.S.B.C. on May 6, 2003. He has also served as Chief Financial Officer for CrossComm Corp., a
provider of internetworking systems from 1995 to 1996 and for Cabot Safety Corporation, a
subsidiary of Cabot Corporation, a basic materials manufacturer from 1990 to 1994. Mr. Kline was
also a Vice President at O’Connor, Wright Wyman, Inc., a merger and acquisition advisory firm from
August 2002 to May 2003, and served on the Board of Directors of Acterna and CrossComm. Mr. Kline also serves
as a director of the Massachusetts Telecommunications Council. He began his career at Arthur Young
& Co. in 1969, where he was a partner for six years.

Kevin D. Barber

, age 45, has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Mobile Platforms
since November 2005 and Senior Vice President and General Manager, RF Solutions since September
2003. Previously, Mr. Barber served as Senior Vice President, Operations from June 2002 to
September 2003; Senior Vice President, Operations of Conexant Systems, Inc. (broadband
communication semiconductors) from February 2001 to June 2002; Vice President, Internal
Manufacturing from August 2000 to February 2001; Vice President, Device Manufacturing from March
1999 to August 2000; Vice President, Strategic Sourcing from November 1998 to March 1999; and
Director, Material Sourcing of Rockwell Semiconductor Systems (now Conexant) from May 1997 to
November 1998. Prior to this, Mr. Barber held various engineering and operational roles at Rockwell
Semiconductor Systems since April 1984.

Liam K. Griffin

, age 39, joined the Company in August 2001 and serves as Senior Vice President,
Sales and Marketing. Previously, Mr. Griffin was employed by Vectron International, a division of
Dover Corp., as Vice President of Worldwide Sales from 1997 to 2001, and as Vice President of North
American Sales from 1995 to 1997. His prior experience included positions as a Marketing Manager at
AT&T Microelectronics, Inc. and Product and Process Engineer at AT&T Network Systems.

George M. LeVan

, age 60, has served as Vice President, Human Resources since June 2002. Previously,
Mr. LeVan served as Director, Human Resources, from 1991 to 2002 and has managed the human resource
department since joining the Company in 1982. Prior to 1982, he held human resources positions at
Data Terminal Systems, Inc., W.R. Grace & Co., Compo Industries, Inc. and RCA.

Stanley A. Swearingen, Jr.,

age 45, joined the Company in August 2004 and serves as Vice President
and General Manager, Linear Products. Prior to joining Skyworks, from
November 2000 to August 2004, Mr. Swearingen was Vice President
and General Manager of Agere Systems’ Computing Connectivity division, where he was responsible for
the design and manufacturing of wired and wireless connectivity
solutions. Prior to this, from July 1999 to November 2000, he served
as President and Chief Operating Officer of Quantex Microsystems, a direct provider of personal
computers, servers and Internet infrastructure products. He has also held senior management
positions at National Semiconductor, Cyrix and Digital Equipment Corp.

Mark V.B. Tremallo

, age 49, joined the Company in April 2004 and serves as Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary. Previously, from January 2003 to April 2004, Mr. Tremallo was Senior Vice
President and General Counsel at TAC Worldwide Companies, a technical workforce solutions provider.
Prior to TAC, from May 1997 to May 2002, he was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at
Acterna Corp., a global communications test equipment and solutions provider, which filed a
voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S.B.C. on May 6, 2003. Earlier, Mr.
Tremallo served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Cabot Safety Corporation.



Gregory L. Waters

, age 45, joined the Company in April 2003, and has served as Executive Vice
President since November 2005, and Vice President and General Manager, Cellular Systems since May
2004. Previously, from February 2001 until April 2003, Mr. Waters served as Senior Vice President
of Strategy and Business Development at Agere Systems and, beginning in 1998, held positions there
as Vice President of the Wireless Communications business and Vice President of the Broadband
Communications business. Prior to working at Agere, Mr. Waters held a variety of senior management
positions within Texas Instruments, including Director of Network Access Products and Director of
North American Sales.

Kevin L. Beebe

, age 46, has been a director since January 2004. He has been Group President of
Operations at ALLTEL Corporation, a telecommunications services company, since 1998. From 1996 to
1998, Mr. Beebe served as Executive Vice President of Operations for 360º Corporation, a wireless
communication company. He has held a variety of executive and senior management positions at
several divisions of Sprint, including Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Marketing
and Administration for Sprint Cellular, Director of Marketing for Sprint North Central Division,
Director of Engineering and Operations Staff and Director of Product Management and Business
Development for Sprint Southeast Division, as well as Staff Director of Product Services at Sprint
Corporation. Mr. Beebe began his career at AT&T/Southwestern Bell as a Manager.

Moiz M. Beguwala

, age 59, has been a director since June 2002. He is an executive employee of
Conexant Systems, Inc., and served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless
Communications business unit of Conexant from January 1999 to June 2002. Prior to Conexant’s
spin-off from Rockwell International Corporation, Mr. Beguwala served as Vice President and General
Manager, Wireless Communications Division, Rockwell Semiconductor Systems, Inc. from October 1998
to December 1998; Vice President and General Manager Personal Computing Division, Rockwell
Semiconductor Systems, Inc. from January 1998 to October 1998; and Vice President, Worldwide Sales,
Rockwell Semiconductor Systems, Inc. from October 1995 to January 1998. Mr. Beguwala serves on the
Board of Directors of SIRF Technology.

Timothy R. Furey

, age 47, has been a director since 1998. He has been Chief Executive Officer of
MarketBridge, a privately owned sales and marketing strategy and technology professional services
firm, since 1991. His company’s clients include organizations such as IBM, British Telecom and
other global Fortune 500 companies selling complex technology products and services into both OEM
and end-user markets. Prior to 1991, Mr. Furey held a variety of consulting positions with Boston
Consulting Group, Strategic Planning Associates, Kaiser Associates and the Marketing Science
Institute.

Balakrishnan S. Iyer

, age 49, has been a director since June 2002. He served as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Conexant Systems, Inc. from December 1998 to June 2003,
and has been a director of Conexant since February 2002. Prior to joining Conexant, Mr. Iyer served
as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VLSI Technology Inc. Prior to that, he was
corporate controller for Cypress Semiconductor Corp. and Director of Finance for Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. Mr. Iyer serves on the Board of Directors of Conexant, Invitrogen Corporation, Power
Integrations, QLogic Corporation, and IHS, Inc.

Thomas C. Leonard

, age 71, has been a director since August 1996. From April 2000 until June 2002
he served as Chairman of the Board of the Company, and from September 1999 to April 2000, he served
the Company as Chief Executive Officer. From July 1996 to September 1999, he served as President
and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Leonard joined the Company in 1992 as a Division General Manager
and was elected a Vice President in 1994. Mr. Leonard has over 30 years’ experience in the
microwave industry, having held a variety of executive and senior level management and marketing
positions at M/A-COM, Inc., Varian Associates, Inc. and Sylvania.

David P. McGlade

, age 44, has been a director since February 2005. Since April 2005, he has served
as the Chief Executive Officer of Intelsat, a worldwide provider of satellite communications
services. Previously, Mr. McGlade served as an Executive Director of mmO2 PLC and as the Chief
Executive Officer of O2 UK, a subsidiary of mmO2, a position he held
from October 2000 until March
2005. Before joining O2 UK, Mr. McGlade was President of the Western Region for Sprint PCS; Chief
Executive Officer and co-founder of Pure Matrix, a U.S. software company that enables the creation
of services on mobile phones; Chief Executive Officer of CatchTV, an Internet/TV convergence
company; and Vice President, Operations at TCI.

David J. McLachlan

, age 67, has been a director since 2000. Mr. McLachlan served as a senior
advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Genzyme Corporation, a biotechnology
company, from 1999 to 2004. He also was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Genzyme Corporation from 1989 to 1999. Prior to joining Genzyme, Mr. McLachlan served as Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer of Adams-Russell Company, an electronic component supplier and
cable television franchise owner. Mr. McLachlan also serves on the Boards of Directors of Dyax
Corporation, a biotechnology company, and HearUSA, Ltd., a hearing care services company.

As part of the terms of the Merger of the wireless communications divisions of Conexant Systems,
Inc. with and into the Company, four designees of Conexant — Donald R. Beall (who retired as a
director in April 2005), Moiz M. Beguwala, Dwight W. Decker and Balakrishnan S. Iyer — were
appointed to our Board of Directors. Each of the remaining three Conexant designees to the Board
continues to have a business relationship with Conexant. Mr. Decker currently serves as the chief



executive officer, as well as the chairman of the board, of Conexant. Mr. Iyer currently serves as
a non-employee director of Conexant. Mr. Beguwala is a current employee, as well as a former
executive officer, of Conexant.

Audit Committee

— The Company has established an Audit Committee in accordance with section
3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act comprised of the following individuals, each of which is
independent within the meaning of applicable listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market: David
J. McLachlan (Chairman), Kevin L. Beebe and David P. McGlade.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

— The Board of Directors has determined that David J. McLachlan,
Chairman of the Audit Committee, is an “audit committee financial expert” and “independent” as
defined under applicable SEC and NASDAQ National Market rules. The board’s affirmative
determination was based, among other things, upon his extensive experience as chief financial
officer of Genzyme Corporation.

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

— The Company has adopted its “Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics,” a code of ethics that applies to all employees, including its executive officers. A copy
of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on the Company’s Internet website at
http://www.skyworksinc.com. Additionally, the Company has adopted its “Code of Ethics for Principal
Financial Officers”, which is applicable to the Company’s Principal Financial Officers and is also
available on our Internet site. In the event that the Company makes any amendment to, or grants any
waivers of, a provision of the codes that requires disclosure under applicable rules, the Company
intends to disclose such amendment or waiver and the reasons therefor on its Internet website.

SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Section 16 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), requires
our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of greater than 10% of our equity
securities to file reports of holdings and transactions of securities of Skyworks with the SEC.
Based solely on a review of Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any amendments thereto furnished to us, and other
information provided to us, with respect to our fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we believe that
all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to our directors and executive officers with
respect to our fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, were timely made.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The following table presents information about total compensation during the last three
completed fiscal years for the Chief Executive Officer and the four next most highly compensated
persons serving as executive officers during the year (the “Named Executives”).

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

Long-Term

Compensation Awards

Annual Compensation

Restricted

Securities

Name and Principal

Fiscal

Stock

Underlying

All Other

Position

Year

Salary

Bonus

Awards($)(1)

Options(#)

Compensation(2)

David J. Aldrich


$

549,800

$

—

$

391,940

274,254

$

10,804

President and


$

527,539

$

1,060,000

—

500,000

$

12,608

Chief Executive Officer


$

480,000

$

—

—

—

$

9,548

Kevin D. Barber


$

342,700

$

—

$

92,222

64,530

$

9,464

Senior Vice President


$

329,646

$

397,000

—

210,000

(3)

$

13,397

and General Manager,


$

307,615

$

—

—

—

$

6,890

Mobile Platforms

Liam K. Griffin


$

298,000

$

—

$

92,222

64,530

$

9,445

Senior Vice President,


$

278,769

$

336,000

—

110,000

$

8,298

Sales and Marketing


$

259,423

$

115,000

(4)

—

—

$

7,315



SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

Long-Term

Compensation Awards

Annual Compensation

Restricted

Securities

Name and Principal

Fiscal

Stock

Underlying

All Other

Position

Year

Salary

Bonus

Awards($)(1)

Options(#)

Compensation(2)

Allan M. Kline(5)


$

336,700

$

—

$

92,222

64,530

$

11,716

Vice President, Chief


$

237,500

$

390,000

—

280,000

(6)

$

6,413

Financial Officer


$

—

$

—

—

—

$

—

Gregory L. Waters


$

318,900

$

—

$

92,222

64,530

$

46,590

(7)

Executive Vice President


$

295,385

$

360,000

—

100,000

$

22,039

(7)


$

117,288

$

60,000

(7)

—

225,000

(6)

$

4,165

(1)

Amounts shown represent the dollar value of the restricted stock awards based on the value of
the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. All grants of restricted stock vest 25% per
year on each of the first four anniversaries of the grant date and were made under the
Company’s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. On May 10, 2005, Mr. Aldrich received a grant of
75,373 shares of restricted stock and Messrs. Barber, Griffin, Kline, and Waters each received
a grant of 17,735 shares of restricted stock. The dollar value shown above with respect to
each of the Named Executives is based upon the closing price of the Company’s common stock
($5.20) on May 10, 2005. As of September 30, 2005, the aggregate number of shares of
restricted stock held by each of the Named Executives, and the dollar value of such shares,
was as follows: Mr. Aldrich, 75,373 shares ($529,118); Mr. Barber, 17,735 shares ($124,500);
Mr. Griffin, 17,735 shares ($124,500); Mr. Kline, 17,735 shares ($124,500); and Mr. Waters,
17,735 shares ($124,500). The dollar values are based upon the closing price of the Company’s
common stock ($7.02) on September 30, 2005.

(2)

“All Other Compensation” includes the Company’s contributions to each Named Executive’s
401(k) plan account, the cost of group term life insurance premiums, and de minimis service
awards.

(3)

Mr. Barber received an annual stock option grant to purchase 110,000 shares in January 2004,
and a one-time stock option grant to purchase 100,000 shares in connection with his promotion
to Senior Vice President and General Manager, RF Solutions in November 2003.

(4)

As an incentive for joining the Company in August 2001, Mr. Griffin was guaranteed a one-time
bonus of $115,000, which was paid during fiscal 2003.

(5)

Mr. Kline joined the Company as an executive officer on January 5, 2004.

(6)

As an incentive for joining the Company, Messrs. Kline and Waters received one-time new hire
stock option grants to purchase 280,000 shares and 225,000 shares, respectively.

(7)

Mr. Waters joined the Company on April 17, 2003, and was appointed an executive officer on
February 6, 2004. As an incentive for joining the Company, Mr. Waters received a sign on bonus
of $60,000. Mr. Waters also received $37,413 and $9,591 in relocation reimbursements in fiscal
years 2005 and 2004, respectively, which is included in “All Other Compensation.”

The following tables provide information about stock options granted to and exercised by each of
the Named Executives in fiscal year 2005, if any, and the value of options held by each at
September 30, 2005.

OPTION GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR

Individual Grants

Percent of

Total

Number

Options

of Securities

Granted to

Underlying

Employees

Potential Realizable Value at

Options

in Fiscal

Exercise or Base

Assumed Annual Rates of Stock

Granted

Year

Price

Price Appreciation for Option Term

Name

(#)

(%)

($ / Share)

Expiration Date

5%

10%

David J. Aldrich

274,254

5.9

$

8.93

11/10/2014

$

1,540,218

$

3,903,216

Kevin D. Barber

64,530

1.4

$

8.93

11/10/2014

$

362,402

$

918,399

Liam K. Griffin

64,530

1.4

$

8.93

11/10/2014

$

362,402

$

918,399

Allan M. Kline

64,530

1.4

$

8.93

11/10/2014

$

362,402

$

918,399

Gregory L. Waters

64,530

1.4

$

8.93

11/10/2014

$

362,402

$

918,399



The options vest at a rate of 25% per year commencing one year after the date of grant,
provided the holder of the option remains employed by the Company. Options may not be exercised
beyond three months after the holder ceases to be employed by the Company, except in the event of
termination by reason of death or permanent disability, in which event the option may be exercised
for specific periods not exceeding one year following termination. The assumed annual rates of
stock price appreciation stated in the table are dictated by regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and are compounded annually for the full term of
the options. These assumptions do not reflect our estimates of future
stock price growth and actual outcomes
may differ.

AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR

AND

FISCAL YEAR END OPTION VALUES

Number of Securities

Value of Unexercised

Shares

Underlying

In-The-Money

Acquired On

Value

Unexercised Options at

Options at

Exercise

Realized

September 30, 2005 (#)

September 30, 2005 ($)

Name

(#)

($)

Exercisable

Unexercisable

Exercisable

Unexercisable

David J. Aldrich

50,000

$

385,410

1,364,000

349,254

$

569,170

$

152,250

Kevin D. Barber

—

$

—

287,564

158,280

$

114,188

$

38,063

Liam K. Griffin

—

$

—

297,500

77,030

$

76,125

$

25,375

Allan M. Kline

—

$

—

70,000

274,530

$

—

$

—

Gregory L. Waters

—

$

—

212,500

177,030

$

191,250

$

191,250

The values of unexercised options in the foregoing table are based on the difference between the
$7.02 closing price of Skyworks’ common stock on September 30, 2005, the end of the 2005 fiscal
year, on the NASDAQ National Market, and the respective option exercise price.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION AWARDS

There were no stock-based compensation awards granted to any of the Named Executives for fiscal
2005.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Our executives are eligible for awards of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options and
restricted stock awards under our applicable stock-based compensation plans. These stock-based
compensation plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Generally, the exercise price at which an executive may purchase Skyworks’ common stock pursuant to
a stock option is the fair market value of Skyworks’ common stock on the date of grant. Stock
options are granted subject to restrictions on vesting, with equal portions of the total grant
generally vesting over a period of four years. Our stock options are subject to forfeiture (after
certain grace periods) upon termination of employment disability or death. Restricted stock awards
involve the issuance of shares of common stock that may not be transferred or otherwise encumbered,
subject to certain exceptions, for varying amounts of time, and which will be forfeited, in whole
or in part, if the executive terminates his or her employment with Skyworks.

The Named Executives were also eligible to receive target incentive compensation under which a
percentage of each executive’s total cash compensation is tied to the accomplishment of specific
financial objectives during fiscal year 2005. The Company did not achieve the annual performance
targets set by the Board of Directors, and therefore no incentive bonuses were paid to the Named
Executives with respect to fiscal year 2005. Certain Named Executives also may participate in the
Company’s Executive Compensation Plan (the “Executive Compensation Plan”), an unfunded,
non-qualified deferred compensation plan, under which participants may defer a portion of their
compensation. Deferred amounts are held in a trust. Participants defer recognizing taxable income
on the amount held for their benefit until the amounts are paid. Although the Company, in its sole
discretion, may make additional contributions to the accounts of participants, it presently has no
plans to do so and has never done so in the past. Participants normally receive the deferred
amounts upon retirement.



COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

Directors who are not employees of Skyworks are paid, in quarterly installments, an annual retainer
of $30,000, plus an additional $1,000 for each Board of Directors meeting attended in person or
$500 for each Board of Directors meeting attended by telephone. Effective beginning fiscal year
2005, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is paid an annual retainer of $45,000. Additional
annual retainers are paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee ($9,000); the Chairman of the
Compensation Committee ($6,000); and the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee
($2,500). In addition, Directors who serve on Committees in roles other than as Chairman are
annually paid $3,000 (Audit Committee); $2,000 (Compensation Committee); and $1,250 (Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee). Each new non-employee director receives an option to purchase
45,000 shares of common stock immediately following the earlier of Skyworks’ annual meeting of
stockholders at which the director is first elected by the stockholders or following his initial
appointment by the Board of Directors. Additionally, following each annual meeting of stockholders
each non-employee director who is continuing in office or re-elected receives an option to purchase
15,000 shares of common stock. The exercise price of stock options granted to directors is equal to
the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Stock option grants to directors
for fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004 were made under the 2001 Directors’ Stock Option Plan.

In connection with his appointment to the Board of Directors, Mr. McGlade was granted an option to
purchase 45,000 shares of common stock on February 1, 2005, at an exercise price equal to the fair
market value of the common stock on the date of grant under our Directors’ 2001 Stock Option Plan.
In connection with their continued service on the Board of Directors, each of Messrs. Beebe,
Beguwala, Decker, Furey, Iyer, Leonard and McLachlan was granted an option to purchase 15,000
shares of common stock on April 28, 2005, at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of
the common stock on the date of grant.

On June 27, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors modified the terms of certain options to
purchase the Company’s common stock held by Mr. Donald R. Beall, a former director of the Company
who retired on April 28, 2005. Specifically, the vesting of 36,750 of Mr. Beall’s outstanding stock
options was accelerated such that they are now exercisable. In addition, the exercise period for
73,500 of Mr. Beall’s stock options (including the 36,750 accelerated options discussed above) was
extended so that, instead of expiring on July 28, 2005, such options would continue to be
exercisable until April 28, 2007. The options affected have exercise prices ranging from $6.24 to
$11.75. These modifications did not affect 258,514 of Mr. Beall’s
other outstanding options, which were fully vested pursuant to their original terms at the time of
his retirement and expire at various times beginning July 28, 2005, and ending April 28, 2010. In
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees, and FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock
Compensation, the modification of 13,500 of the above-referenced stock options will not affect the
Company’s financial statements because the exercise price for such options was higher than the
market price of the Company’s stock at the modification date. Therefore, the intrinsic value of
such stock options was zero at the date of the modification, and no additional compensation cost
will result. The modification of the other 60,000 above-referenced options will result in the
Company incurring a non-cash charge of $57,450 since the exercise price for such options was lower
than the market price of the Company’s stock at the modification date. In addition, fixed stock
option accounting continues to apply to all of the modified stock options because neither the
number of stock options nor the exercise price of such stock options was changed as a result of the
modification. None of the Company’s stock-based compensation plans was affected by the
aforementioned modifications.

No director who is also an employee receives separate compensation
for services rendered as a director. David J. Aldrich is currently the only director who is also an
employee of Skyworks. Mr. Aldrich’s compensation as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Skyworks is discussed separately in this Part III.

SEVERANCE AGREEMENTS

Change of Control / Severance Agreement with Mr. Aldrich

In fiscal 2005, the Company entered into a Change of Control / Severance Agreement with Mr. David
J. Aldrich (the “Aldrich Agreement”), the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. The Aldrich Agreement
sets out severance benefits that become payable if, within twenty-four (24) months of a change of
control, Mr. Aldrich either (i) is involuntarily terminated without cause or (ii) voluntarily
terminates his employment. The severance benefits provided to Mr. Aldrich in such circumstances
will consist of the following: (i) a severance payment equal to two and one-half (2


/ 2 ) times his total annual compensation for the previous twelve (12)
months, including salary and bonus (with the bonus to be the greater of (x) the average bonus
received for the three years prior to the year in which the change of control occurs or (y) the
target bonus for the year in which the change of control occurs); (ii) vesting of all outstanding
stock options and any restricted stock, with such stock options remaining exercisable for a period
of thirty (30) months after the termination date (but not beyond the expiration of their respective
maximum terms); and (iii) if applicable, a gross-up payment for any excise taxes incurred under
Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“IRC”). The Aldrich Agreement also sets out
severance benefits that become payable if, while employed by the Company, but not following a
change of control, Mr. Aldrich either (i) is involuntarily terminated without cause or (ii)
terminates his employment for good reason. The severance benefits provided to Mr. Aldrich under
such circumstances will consist of the



following: (i) a severance payment equal to two (2) times
his total annual compensation for the previous twelve (12) months, including salary and bonus (with
the bonus to be the greater of (x) the average bonus received for the three years prior to the year
in which the change of control occurs or (y) the target bonus for the year in which the change of
control occurs); and (ii) vesting of all outstanding stock options and any restricted stock, with
such stock options remaining exercisable for a period of two (2) years after the termination date
(but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum terms). In the event of Mr. Aldrich’s
death or disability, all outstanding stock options will vest in full and remain exercisable for a
period of twelve (12) months following the termination of employment (but not beyond the expiration
of their respective maximum terms). The Aldrich Agreement also contains non-compete and
non-solicitation provisions applicable to Mr. Aldrich while he is employed by the Company, and for
a period of twenty-four (24) months following the termination of his employment.

Change of Control / Severance Agreements with Messrs. Griffin, Kline, and Waters

In fiscal 2005, the Company entered into a Change of Control / Severance Agreement with each of Mr.
Liam K. Griffin, Mr. Allan M. Kline, and Mr. Gregory L. Waters (the “COC Agreements”). Each COC
Agreement sets out severance benefits that become payable if, within twelve (12) months of a change
of control, the executive either (i) is involuntarily terminated without cause or (ii) terminates
his employment for good reason. The severance benefits provided to the executive in such
circumstances will consist of the following: (i) a severance payment equal to two (2) times his
total annual compensation for the previous twelve (12) months, including salary and bonus (with the
bonus to be the greater of (x) the average bonus received for the three years prior to the year in
which the change of control occurs or (y) the target bonus for the year in which the change of
control occurs); (ii) vesting of all outstanding stock options and any restricted stock, with such
stock options remaining exercisable for a period of twenty-four (24) months after the termination
date (but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum terms); and (iii) if applicable, a
gross-up payment for any excise taxes incurred under Section 4999 of the IRC. Each COC Agreement
also sets out severance benefits that become payable if, while employed by the Company, but not
following a change of control, the executive is involuntarily terminated without cause. The
severance benefits provided to the executive under such circumstance will consist of the following:
(i) a severance payment equal to the sum of (x) one and one-half (1


/2) times his annual base salary and (y) any bonus then due; and (ii)
all outstanding stock options will remain exercisable for a period of eighteen (18) months after
the termination date (but not beyond the expiration of their respective
maximum terms). In the event the executive’s death or disability, all outstanding stock options
will vest and remain exercisable for a period of twelve (12) months following the termination of
employment (but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum terms). Each COC Agreement
also contains non-compete and non-solicitation provisions applicable to the executive while he is
employed by the Company, and for a period of twenty-four (24) months following the termination of
his employment.

Change of Control / Severance Agreement with Mr. Barber

In fiscal 2005, the Company also entered into a Change of Control / Severance Agreement with Mr.
Kevin D. Barber (the “Barber Agreement”). The Barber Agreement sets out severance benefits that
become payable if, within twelve (12) months of a change of control, the Mr. Barber either (i) is
involuntarily terminated without cause or (ii) terminates his employment for good reason. The
severance benefits provided to Mr. Barber in such circumstances will consist of the following: (i)
severance pay equal to two (2) times his total annual compensation for the previous twelve (12)
months, including salary and bonus (with the bonus to be the greater of (x) the average bonus
received for the three years prior to the year in which the change of control occurs or (y) the
target bonus for the year in which the change of control occurs), with such severance to be paid,
at the Company’s election, in a lump sum payment at the time of termination or pro-rata over a
period of twelve (12) months following termination; (ii) vesting of all outstanding stock options
and any restricted stock, with such stock options remaining exercisable for a period of twenty-four
(24) months after the termination date (but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum
terms); and (iii) if applicable, gross-up payments for any excise (or other) taxes incurred under
Sections 4999 and 409A of the IRC. The Barber Agreement also sets out severance benefits that
become payable if, while employed by the Company, but not following a change of control, Mr. Barber
is involuntarily terminated without cause. The severance benefits provided to Mr. Barber under such
circumstance will consist of the following: (i) severance pay equal to the sum of (x) one and
one-half (1


/ 2 ) times his annual base salary and (y) any bonus then
due, with such severance to be paid pro-rata over a period of twelve (12) months following his
termination; and (ii) all outstanding stock options will remain exercisable for a period of
eighteen (18) months after the termination date (but not beyond the expiration of their respective
maximum terms). In the event of Mr. Barber’s death or disability, all outstanding stock options
will vest and remain exercisable for a period of twelve (12) months following the termination of
employment (but not beyond the expiration of their respective maximum terms). The Barber Agreement
also contains a non-solicitation provision applicable to Mr. Barber while he is employed by the
Company, and for a period of twelve (12) months following the termination of his employment.



COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors comprises Messrs.
Beebe, Furey and McGlade. No member of this committee was at any time during the past fiscal year
an officer or employee of the Company, was formerly an officer of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, or had any employment relationship with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. No
such member of the Compensation Committee had any relationship with us requiring disclosure under
Item 404 of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act. No executive officer of Skyworks has served as a
director or member of the compensation committee (or other committee serving an equivalent
function) of any other entity, one of whose executive officers served as a director of or member of
the Compensation Committee of Skyworks.



ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.

To the Company’s knowledge, the following table sets forth the beneficial ownership of the
Company’s common stock as of November 15, 2005, by the following individuals or entities: (i) each
person who beneficially owns 5% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock as
of November 15, 2005; (ii) the Named Executives (as defined herein under the heading “Compensation
of Executive Officers”); (iii) each director and nominee for director; and (iv) all current
executive officers and directors of the Company, as a group.

Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC, is not necessarily
indicative of beneficial ownership for any other purpose, and does not constitute an admission that
the named stockholder is a direct or indirect beneficial owner of those shares. As of November 15,
2005, there were 159,118,403 shares of Skyworks common stock issued and outstanding.

In computing the number of shares of Company common stock beneficially owned by a person and the
percentage ownership of that person, shares of Company common stock that are subject to stock
options or other rights held by that person that are currently exercisable or that will become
exercisable within 60 days of November 15, 2005, are deemed outstanding. These shares are not,
however, deemed outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other
person.

Number of Shares

Names and Addresses of Beneficial Owners(1)

Beneficially Owned(2)

Percent of Class

Delaware Management Holdings(3)

10,659,803

6.70

%

David J. Aldrich

1,717,935

(4)

1.10

%

Kevin D. Barber

381,766

(4)

(*

)

Kevin L. Beebe

15,000

(*

)

Moiz M. Beguwala

391,043

(5)

(*

)

Dwight W. Decker

1,504,290

(5)

1.00

%

Timothy R. Furey

150,000

(*

)

Liam K. Griffin

383,545

(4)

(*

)

Balakrishnan S. Iyer

423,287

(*

)

Allan M. Kline

210,615

(4)(6)

(*

)

Thomas C. Leonard

122,736

(*

)

David P. McGlade


(*

)

David J. McLachlan

107,600

(*

)

Gregory L. Waters

313,151

(4)

(*

)

All directors and executive officers as a group (16 persons)

6,203,295

(4)(5)(6)

3.90

%

*

Less than 1%

(1)

Unless otherwise noted, each person’s address is the address of the Company’s principal
executive offices at Skyworks Solutions, Inc., 20 Sylvan Road, Woburn, MA 01801 and
stockholders have sole voting and investment power with respect to shares, except to the
extent such power may be shared by a spouse or otherwise subject to applicable community
property laws. The address of Delaware Management Holdings, as set forth on Schedule 13G filed
by Delaware Management Holdings with the SEC on February 9, 2005, is 2005 Market Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

(2)

Includes the number of shares of Company common stock subject to stock options held by that
person that are currently exercisable or will become exercisable within sixty (60) days of
November 15, 2005 (the “Current Options”), as follows: Aldrich — 1,432,564 shares under
Current Options; Barber — 328,697 shares under Current Options; Beebe — 15,000 shares under
Current Options; Beguwala — 379,010 shares under Current Options; Decker — 1,452,960 shares
under Current Options; Furey — 150,000 shares under Current Options; Griffin — 313,633 shares
under Current Options; Iyer — 417,205 shares under Current Options; Kline — 156,133 shares
under Current Options; Leonard — 75,000 shares under Current Options; McLachlan — 105,000
shares under Current Options; Waters — 228,633 shares under Current Options; directors and
executive officers as a group (16 persons) — 5,431,209 shares under Current Options.

(3)

Consists of shares beneficially owned by Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., a registered
investment advisor wholly-owned by Delaware Management Business Trust. Delaware Management
Business Trust is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lincoln National Corp. Delaware Management
Holdings, Inc. may be deemed to share beneficial ownership with the various Delaware
Investments Family of Funds. Of the shares beneficially owned, Delaware Management Holdings,
Inc. and Delaware Management Business Trust (through its ownership Delaware Management Holdings,
Inc.) have sole voting power with respect to 10,610,883 shares, sole disposition power with
respect to 10,653,903 shares, and shared disposition



power with respect to 5,900 shares. With respect to the information relating to the affiliated
Delaware Management Holdings entities, the Company has relied on information supplied by such
entities on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 9, 2005.

(4)

Includes shares held in the Company’s 401(k) savings plan.

(5)

Includes shares held in savings plan(s) of Conexant Systems, Inc., and/or Rockwell
Automation, Inc., resulting from the distribution of Skyworks’ shares for shares of Conexant
Systems, Inc. held in those plans in connection with the merger of the wireless communications
business of Conexant Systems, Inc. with Alpha Industries, Inc. on June 25, 2002.

(6)

Includes 250 shares of Company common stock held in trust for the benefit of other persons,
as to all of which Mr. Kline disclaims beneficial ownership.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

The Company maintains 10 equity compensation plans under which our equity securities are authorized
for issuance to our employees and/or directors:

Except for the 1999 Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option
Plan and the Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, each of the foregoing equity compensation
plans was approved by our stockholders.

A description of the material features of each such plan is provided below under the headings “1999
Employee Long-Term Incentive Plan”, “Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan” and
“Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan”.

The following table presents information about these plans as of September 30, 2005.

Number of Securities

Remaining Available for

Number of Securities

Weighted-Average

Future Issuance Under

to be Issued Upon

Exercise Price of

Equity Compensation

Exercise of Outstanding

Outstanding

Plans (Excluding

Options, Warrants,

Options, Warrants

Securities Reflected

Plan Category

and Rights

and Rights

in Column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity
compensation plans
approved by
security holders

9,119,911

$

15.16

5,172,699

(1)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

22,457,595

$

12.11

3,242,660

(2)

Total

31,577,506

(3)

$

12.99

8,415,359

(1)

No further grants will be made under the 1986 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1994
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan and the Directors’ 1997 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan.

(2)

No further grants may be made under the Washington Sub Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan.

(3)

Includes 8,602,253 options held by non-employees (excluding directors).



1999 EMPLOYEE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

The Company’s 1999 Employee Long-term Incentive Plan (the “1999 Employee Plan”) provides for
the grant of non-qualified stock options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock to
employees, other than officers and non-employee directors. The term of these options may not
exceed 10 years. The 1999 Employee Plan contains provisions, which permit restrictions on vesting
or transferability, as well as continued exercisability upon a participant’s termination of
employment with the Company, of options granted thereunder. The 1999 Employee Plan provides for
full acceleration of the vesting of options granted thereunder upon a “change in control” of the
Company, as defined in the 1999 Employee Plan. The Board of Directors generally may amend, suspend
or terminate the 1999 Employee Plan in whole or in part at any time; provided that any amendment
which affects outstanding options be consented to by the holder of the options.

WASHINGTON SUB, INC. 2002 STOCK OPTION PLAN

The Washington Sub, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan (the “Washington Sub Plan”) became effective
on June 25, 2002, in connection with the Merger. At the time of the spin-off of Conexant’s
wireless business, outstanding Conexant options granted pursuant to certain Conexant stock
incentive plans were converted so that following the spin-off and Merger each holder of those
certain Conexant options held (i) options to purchase shares of Conexant common stock and (ii)
options to purchase shares of Skyworks common stock. The purpose of the Washington Sub Plan is to
provide a means for the Company to perform its obligations with respect to these converted stock
options. The only participants in the Washington Sub Plan are those persons who, at the time of
the Merger, held outstanding options granted pursuant to certain Conexant stock option plans. No
further options to purchase shares of Skyworks common stock will be granted under the Washington
Sub Plan. The Washington Sub Plan contains a number of sub-plans, which contain terms and
conditions that are applicable to certain portions of the options subject to the Washington Sub
Plan, depending upon the Conexant stock option plan from which the Skyworks options granted under
the Washington Sub Plan were derived. The outstanding options under the Washington Sub Plan
generally have the same terms and conditions as the original Conexant options from which they are
derived. Most of the sub-plans of the Washington Sub Plan contain provisions related to the
effect of a participant’s termination of employment with the Company, if any, and/or with Conexant
on options granted pursuant to such sub-plan. Several of the sub-plans under the Washington Sub
Plan contain specific provisions related to a change in control of the Company.

NON-QUALIFIED ESPP

The Company also maintains a Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan to provide employees
of the Company and participating subsidiaries with an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest
in the Company through the purchase, by means of payroll deductions, of shares of the Company’s
common stock at a discount from the market price of the common stock at the time of purchase. The
Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan is intended for use primarily by employees of the
Company located outside the United States. Under the plan, eligible employees may purchase common
stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of compensation. The price per share is the lower of
85% of the market price at the beginning or end of each six-month offering period.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

None.



ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

AUDIT FEES

KPMG LLP provided audit services to the Company consisting of the annual audit of the Company’s
2005 consolidated financial statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and
reviews of the financial statements contained in the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for
fiscal year 2005.

Fiscal Year

Fiscal Year

Fee Category


% of Total


% of Total

Audit
Fees-Financial Statement Audit

$

615,900


%

$

579,000


%

Audit
Fees-Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley

684,500


%

—


%

Total Audit Fees (1)

$

1,300,400


%

$

579,000


%

Audit-Related Fees(2)

15,250


%

21,220


%

Tax Fees(3)

—


%

65,000


%

All Other Fees (4)

3,000


%

1,350


%

Total Fees

$

1,318,650


%

$

666,570


%

In 2003, the Audit Committee adopted a formal policy concerning approval of audit and non-audit
services to be provided to the Company by its independent auditor, KPMG LLP. The policy requires
that all services to be provided by KPMG LLP, including audit services and permitted audit-related
and non-audit services, must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee
pre-approved all audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG LLP during fiscal 2005 and fiscal
2004.

(1)

Audit fees consist of fees for the audit of our financial statements, the review of the
interim financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other
professional services provided in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or
engagements. In 2005 audit fees also included fees for services incurred in connection with
rendering an opinion under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.

(2)

Audit related fees consist of fees for assurance and related services that are reasonably
related to the performance of the audit and the review of our financial statements and which
are not reported under “Audit Fees”. These services relate to the employee benefit audit,
registration statement filings for financing activities and consultations concerning financial
accounting and reporting standards.

(3)

Tax fees consist of fees for tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services. Tax
compliance services, which relate to preparation or review of original and amended tax
returns, claims for refunds and tax payment-planning services, accounted for $0 and $65,000 of
the total tax fees for fiscal year 2005 and 2004, respectively. Tax advice and tax planning
services relate to assistance with tax audits.

(4)

All other fees for fiscal year 2005 and 2004 consist of licenses for accounting research
software.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a) The following are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

1.

Index to Financial Statements

Page number in this report

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Page 38

Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2005 and 2004

Page 39

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Page 40

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss
For the Years Ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Page 41

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Page 42

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Pages 43 through 65

2.

The schedule listed below is filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Page number in this report

Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Page 83

All other required schedule information is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements or is omitted because it is either not required or not applicable.

3.

The Exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the Exhibits are filed
as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits

The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are filed herewith and incorporated by
reference herein. The response to this portion of Item 15 is submitted under Item 15 (a)
(3).



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Date:

December 14, 2005

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.

Registrant

By:

/s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

David J. Aldrich

Chief Executive Officer

President

Director



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
on December 14, 2005.

Signature and Title

/s/ DWIGHT W. DECKER

Dwight W. Decker

Chairman of the Board

/s/ DAVID J. ALDRICH

David J. Aldrich

Chief Executive Officer

President and Director (principal

executive officer)

/s/ ALLAN M. KLINE

Allan M. Kline

Chief Financial Officer Director

Vice President (principal accounting and

financial officer)

Signature and Title

/s/ KEVIN L. BEEBE

Kevin L. Beebe

Director

/s/ MOIZ M. BEGUWALA

Moiz M. Beguwala

Director

/s/ TIMOTHY R. FUREY

Timothy R. Furey

Director

/s/ BALAKRISHNAN S. IYER

Balakrishnan S. Iyer

Director

/s/ THOMAS C. LEONARD

Thomas C. Leonard

Director

/s/ DAVID P. MCGLADE

David P. McGlade

Director

/s/ DAVID J. MCLACHLAN

David J. McLachlan

Director



SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In thousands)

Changed to

Cost and

Ending

Description

Beginning Balance

Expenses

Deductions

Misc.

Balance

Year Ended September 30, 2003

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,324

$

1,156

$

(501

)

$

—

$

1,979

Reserve for sales returns

$

8,516

$

3,624

$

(7,131

)

$

—

$

5,009

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

20,618

$

9,577

$

(4,890

)

$

—

$

25,305

Year Ended September 30, 2004

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,979

$


$

(369

)

$

—

$

1,987

Reserve for sales returns

$

5,009

$

9,200

$

(9,300

)

$

—

$

4,909

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

25,305

$


$

(12,105

)

$

—

$

13,735

Year Ended September 30, 2005

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,987

$

5,127

$

(1,299

)

$

—

$

5,815

Reserve for sales returns

$

4,909

$

4,986

$

(6,884

)

$


$

3,059

Allowance for excess and obsolete inventories

$

13,735

$

11,482

$

(13,238

)

$

—

$

11,979



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

2.A

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of
December 16, 2001, as amended as of April 12, 2002, by
and among the Company, Washington Sub, Inc. and
Conexant Systems, Inc.

S-4

333-83768

2.1

5/10/2002

2.B

Contribution and Distribution Agreement, dated as of
December 16, 2001, as amended as of June 25, 2002, by
and between Washington Sub, Inc. the Company and
Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.2

6/28/2002

2.C

Mexican Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 25,
2002, by and between the Company and Conexant Systems,
Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.3

6/28/2002

2.D

Amended and Restated Mexican Asset Purchase Agreement,
dated as of June 25, 2002, by and between the Company
and Conexant Systems, Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.4

6/28/2002

2.E

U.S. Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 16,
2001 by and between the Company and Conexant Systems,
Inc.

8-K

001-5560

2.5

6/28/2002

3.A

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation

10-K

001-5560

3.A

12/23/2002

3.B

Second Amended and Restated By-laws

10-K

001-5560

10.2

12/23/2002

4.A

Specimen Certificate of Common Stock

S-3

333-92394


7/15/2002

4.B

Form of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Note of the
Company

10-K

001-5560

4.D

12/23/2002

4.C

Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2002, by and
between the Company and Wachovia Bank, N.A. (as
Trustee)

10-K

001-5560

4.E

12/23/2002

4.D

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 15,
2003 between Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and Wachovia
Bank, N.A. (as Trustee)

S-3

001-5560

4.03

1/16/2003

10.A*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc., 1986 Long-Term Incentive Plan
as amended

X

10.B*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Long-Term Compensation Plan
dated September 24, 1990; amended March 28, 1991; and
as further amended October 27, 1994

X

10.C*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1994 Non-Qualified Stock
Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors

X

10.D*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Executive Compensation Plan
dated January 1, 1995 and Trust for the Skyworks
Solutions, Inc. Executive Compensation Plan dated
January 3, 1995

X



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.E*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1997 Non-Qualified Stock
Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors

X

10.F*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.M

6/29/2001

10.G*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Directors’ 2001 Stock Option
Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.N

11/14/2001

10.H*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 1999 Employee Long-Term
Incentive Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.L

12/23/2002

10.I*

Washington Sub Inc., 2002 Stock Option Plan

S-3

333-92394

99.A

7/15/2002

10.J*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Non-Qualified Employee Stock
Purchase Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.N

12/23/2002

10.K

Form of Shareholders Agreement, dated as of December
16, 2001, entered into between each of the directors
and certain executive officers of the Company as of the
date thereof and Conexant Systems, Inc.

S-4

333-83768


5/3/2002

10.L

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 12,
2002, by and among the Company and Credit Suisse First
Boston (as representative for the several purchasers)

10-K

001-5560

10.AA

12/23/2002

10.M*

2002 Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan

10-K

001-5560

10.CC

12/23/2002

10.N

Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of July 15,
2003, by and between Skyworks USA, Inc. and Wachovia
Bank, N.A.

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

8/11/2003

10.O

Servicing Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2003, by and
between the Company and Skyworks USA, Inc.

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

8/11/2003

10.P

Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 15,
2003, by and between Skyworks USA, Inc. and the
Company.

10-Q

001-5560

10.C

8/11/2003

10.Q

Terms Agreement, dated as of September 9, 2003, by and
among the Company and Credit Suisse First Boston.

8-K

001-5560

1.1

9/10/2003

10.R*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option for the
Company’s 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/17/2004

10.S*

Fiscal 2006 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan

X

10.T*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

8-K

001-556

10.1

5/04/2005

10.U*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Directors’ 2001 Stock Option
Plan

8-K

001-556

10.2

5/04/2005

10.V*

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option for the
Company’s 2001 Directors Plan

8-K

001-556

10.3

5/04/2005

10.W*

Form of Notice of Stock Option Agreement under the
Company’s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.A

5/11/2005



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

10.X*

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Agreement under the
Company’s 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

10-Q

001-5560

10.B

5/11/2005

10.Y*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement, dated May
31, 2005, between the Company and David J. Aldrich

8-K

001-5560

10.1

5/31/2005

10.Z*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and Liam K. Griffin

8-K

001-5560

10.2

5/31/2005

10.AA*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and Allan M. Kline

8-K

001-5560

10.3

5/31/2005

10.BB*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and George M. LeVan

8-K

001-5560

10.4

5/31/2005

10.CC*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and Gregory L. Waters

8-K

001-5560

10.5

5/31/2005

10.DD*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and Kevin D. Barber

8-K

001-5560

10.6

5/31/2005

10.EE*

Severance and Change in Control Agreement between the
Company and Mark V. B. Tremallo

8-K

001-5560

10.7

5/31/2005

10.FF*

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Restricted Stock Agreement
Granted Under 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan

8-K

001-5560

10.1

11/15/2005


Statement regarding calculation of per share earnings
[see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]

X


Computation of Ratios

X


Subsidiaries of the Company

X

23.1

Consent of KPMG LLP

X

31.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer
pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act Rules 13a-
14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

X

31.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer
pursuant to Securities and Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a)
and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

X

32.1

Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

X



Exhibit

Incorporated by Reference

Filed

Number

Exhibit Description

Form

File No.

Exhibit

Filing Date

Herewith

32.2

Certification of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

X

*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

87