
10-K405


                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               Washington, D.C. 20549
                                          
                                     Form 10-K
                   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                       of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                                          
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 Commission file number: 1-12162
                                          
                            Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Delaware                                     13-3404508
(State of Incorporation)           (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                             200 South Michigan Avenue
                              Chicago, Illinois 60604
                                   (312) 322-8500
           (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)
                                          
            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             Name of each exchange
Title of each class                          on which registered
- ------------------------                     -----------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share       New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check-mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock of the registrant held by
stockholders (not including voting stock held by directors and executive
officers of the registrant) on March 16, 1998 was approximately $1.4 billion. As
of March 16, 1998, the registrant had 23,610,409 shares of Common Stock and
1,500 shares of Non-Voting Common Stock outstanding.

     Indicate by check-mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K./x/ 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference into
the Part of the Form 10-K indicated.

                                                          Part of Form 10-K
                                                              into which
          Document                                           incorporated
          --------                                       ---------------------
Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. 1997 Annual
 Report to Stockholders                                     Parts II and IV
Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Proxy Statement
 for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders                   Part III


                            BORG-WARNER AUTOMOTIVE, INC.
                                     FORM 10-K
                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997


INDEX

Item
Number                                                      Page

PART I
1.   Business                                               3
2.   Properties                                             10
3.   Legal Proceedings                                      10
4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    11

PART II
5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
     Stockholder Matters                                    11
6.   Selected Financial Data                                11
7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
     Condition and Results of Operations                    12
8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            12
9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
     Accounting and Financial Disclosure                    12

PART III
10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant     12
11.  Executive Compensation                                 12
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
     Management                                             12
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions         12

PART IV
14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports 
     on Form 8-K                                            13

PART I

Item 1. Business

     Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), was
incorporated in 1987. The Company is a leading, global Tier I supplier of highly
engineered systems and components, primarily for automotive powertrain
applications. These products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to
original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") of passenger cars, sport utility
vehicles and light trucks. The Company, which operates 36 manufacturing
facilities in 12 countries serving the North American, European and Asian
automotive markets, is an original equipment supplier to every major OEM in the
world.

Company Business Units

     The Company's products fall into four categories: Powertrain Systems,
Automatic Transmission Systems, Morse TEC and Air/Fluid Systems. Net revenues by
product grouping for the three years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, are
as follows (in millions of dollars):



     The Company's newest acquisition, a majority interest in AG Kuhnle, Kopp &
Kausch, is shown separately since the Company is not the sole stockholder and
has not yet finalized its plans concerning future integration of the business
nor determined which product grouping is appropriate.

     The sales information presented above excludes the sales by the Company's
unconsolidated joint ventures. See "Joint Ventures." Such sales totaled
approximately $386 million in 1997, approximately $430 million in 1996 and
approximately $394 million in 1995.

     The Company conducts business in one industry segment. See Note 9 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 33 and 34 of the Company's
Annual Report.

Powertrain Systems

     Powertrain Systems' products include four-wheel drive ("4WD") and all-wheel
drive transfer cases.

Transfer cases are installed primarily on light trucks and sport-utility
vehicles. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and distributes torque to
the front and rear axles for 4WD, improving vehicle control during off-road use
and in a variety of road conditions. The Company has designed and developed an
exclusive 4WD Torque-on-Demand ("TOD") transfer case system, which allows
vehicles to automatically shift from two-wheel drive to 4WD when electronic
sensors indicate it is necessary. The TOD transfer case is available on the Ford
Explorer, the best selling sport-utility vehicle in the United States in 1996
and 1997, and the new Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator.

     Sales of 4WD transfer cases represented 33% of the Company's total revenues
for 1997 and 30% of total revenues for 1996 and 1995. The Company believes that
it is the world's leading independent manufacturer of 4WD transfer cases,
producing approximately 1.2 million transfer cases in 1997. The Company's
largest customer of 4WD transfer cases is Ford Motor Company ("Ford"). The
Company supplies substantially all of the 4WD transfer cases for Ford, including
those installed in the Ford Explorer, the Ford Expedition, the Ford F-150
pick-up truck, the Mercury Mountaineer and the Lincoln Navigator.

     The Company supplies transfer cases for a new Mercedes-Benz M-Class
all-activity vehicle, which was first made available to consumers in 1997 and is
manufactured at Mercedes-Benz's new United States passenger-vehicle
manufacturing facility. Under a five-year agreement, which has a three-year
extension provision, the Company developed and supplies Mercedes-Benz with new
two-speed, electronically controlled, all-wheel drive transfer cases that are
compatible with its anti-skid braking system.

Automatic Transmission Systems

     The Company engineers and manufactures components for automatic
transmissions and the systems which combine such components around the world.
Principal product lines include friction plates, one-way clutches, transmission
bands, races and torque converters for automatic transmissions. The Company is a
supplier to virtually every major automatic transmission manufacturer in the
world. The Company's 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner Kabushiki
Kaisha ("NSK Warner"), is a leading producer of friction plates and one-way
clutches in Japan.

Morse TEC

     Morse TEC manufactures chain and chain systems, including HY-VO 
front-wheel drive transmission chain ("FWD") and 4WD chain, MORSE GEMINI  Chain
Systems, timing chain and timing chain systems, crankshaft and camshaft
sprockets, chain tensioners and snubbers.

     HY-VO(R) chain is used in transmissions and for 4WD transfer case
applications. Transmission chain is used to transfer power from the engine to
the transmission. The Company's MORSE GEMINI(TM) Chain System, which is used on
Chrysler's LH models, emits significantly less chain pitch frequency noise than
conventional transmission chain systems. In the 1997 model year, beginning in
the third quarter of 1996, GM began incorporating this system in its FWD
vehicles. The chain in a transfer case distributes power between the front and
rear output shafts which, in turn, drive the front and rear wheels. The Company
believes it is the world's leading manufacturer of chain for FWD transmissions
and 4WD transfer cases. The Company is an original equipment supplier to every
major manufacturer that uses chain for such applications.

     The Company's timing chain system is used on Ford's new family of overhead
cam engines, including the Duratech and Triton engines. The Company has been
selected to design and produce complete timing chain systems for Chrysler's new
3.7 liter and 4.7 liter overhead cam engines beginning in 1998. The Company
believes that it is the world's leading manufacturer of timing chain.

Air/Fluid Systems

     Air/Fluid Systems designs and manufactures sophisticated mechanical,
electro-mechanical and electronic components and systems used for engine air
intake and exhaust management, fuel and vapor management, electronically
controlled automatic transmissions and steering and suspension systems. Key
products for engine air intake management produced by the Company include
throttle bodies, intake manifolds, throttle position sensors, and complete
engine induction systems. The Company's products for emissions control and
improved gas mileage include mechanical and electrical air pumps, air control
valves and pressure feedback exhaust gas re-circulation valves. The fuel
management and vapor recovery products include roll valves, canister purge
solenoids and complete vapor recovery systems. The Company also produces oil
pumps.

     Effective October 31, 1997, the Company purchased from Penske Corporation a
63% interest in AG Kuhnle, Kopp & Kausch, a German corporation ("AG Kuhnle"). AG
Kuhnle is a manufacturer of turbochargers and turbomachinery. AG Kuhnle supplies
turbochargers to European diesel and spark ignition engine manufacturers for use
in the passenger car and commercial vehicle markets as well as for industrial
locomotive and marine engines. AG Kuhnle's turbomachinery business manufacturers
compressors and turbines for use in the energy and environmental support
markets. AG Kuhnle's sales of turbochargers included in the Company's 1997
results of operations for the period from October 31, 1997 were $25 million. The
Company is primarily interested in AG Kuhnle's turbocharger business which
provides the Company with another strategic technology to develop advanced
powertrain solutions to reduce emissions and improve fuel economy. The net
carrying value of the turbo-machinery business is included in prepayments and
other current assets on the December 31, 1997 balance sheet.

Joint Ventures

     The Company has six joint ventures in which it has a less-than-100%
ownership interest. Results from two of these ventures, in which the Company is
the majority owner, are consolidated as part of the Company's results. The
Company's ownership interest in the remaining four joint ventures ranges from
39% to 50%. The results of NSK-Warner, Warner-Ishi Corporation, Beijing Warner
Gear Co., Ltd. and Warner-Ishi Europe S.p.A. are reported using the equity
method.

     Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with the
Company's respective joint venture partners. Certain information concerning the
Company's joint ventures is set forth below:



See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 33 and 34
of the Company's Annual Report for geographic information.

Customers

     Approximately 85% of the Company's total sales in 1997 were to automotive
OEMs, with the remaining 15% of the Company's sales to a diversified group of
industrial, construction and agricultural vehicle manufacturers, auto part
manufacturers and to distributors of automotive aftermarket and replacement
parts.

     The Company's worldwide sales in 1997 to Ford, General Motors Corporation
("GM") and Chrysler Corporation ("Chrysler") constituted approximately 43%, 20%
and 10%, respectively, of its 1997 consolidated sales. Approximately 16% of
consolidated sales for 1997 were outside the United States, including exports.
However, a substantial portion of such sales were to foreign OEMs of vehicles
that are, in turn, exported to the United States. See Note 9 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 33 and 34 of the Company's Annual
Report.

     The Company's automotive products are sold directly to OEMs pursuant to the
terms and conditions of the OEMs' purchase orders, and deliveries are subject to
periodic authorizations based upon the production schedules of the OEMs. The
Company ships its products directly from its plants to the OEMs.

Sales and Marketing

     Each of the Company's four business groups has its own sales function
headed by a Vice President of Sales. Account executives for each group are
assigned to serve specific OEM customers for one or more of a business group's
products. Such account executives spend the majority of their time in direct
contact with OEM purchasing and engineering employees and are responsible for
servicing existing business and for identifying and obtaining new business.
Because of their close relationship with the OEMs, account executives are able
to identify and meet customers' needs based upon their knowledge of the
Company's products and design and manufacturing capabilities. Upon securing a
new order, account executives participate in product launch team activities as a
key interface to the customers.

Research and Development

     Each of the Company's business groups has its own research and development
("R&D") organization. Over 400 employees, including engineers, mechanics and
technicians, are engaged in R&D activities at Company facilities worldwide. The
Company also operates testing facilities such as prototype, measurement and
calibration, life testing and dynamometer laboratories.

     By working closely with the OEMs and anticipating their future product
needs, the Company's R&D personnel conceive, design, develop and manufacture new
proprietary automotive components and systems. R&D personnel also work to
improve current products and production processes. The Company believes its
commitment to R&D will allow it to obtain new orders from its OEM customers.

     Consistent with its strategy of developing technologically innovative
products, the Company spent approximately $59 million, $54.4 million and
$36.7 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, on R&D activities. Not
included in the reported R&D activities were customer-sponsored R&D activities
that were approximately $8 million, $10 million and $11.3 million in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively.

Patents and Licenses

     The Company has approximately 2,000 active domestic and foreign patents and
patent applications pending or under preparation, and receives royalties from
licensing patent rights to others. While it considers its patents on the whole
to be important, the Company does not consider any single patent, group of
related patents or any single license essential to its operations in the
aggregate. The expiration of the patents individually and in the aggregate is
not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or
future operating results. The Company owns numerous trademarks, some of which
are valuable but none of which are essential to its business in the aggregate.

     The "Borg-Warner Automotive" trade name, and the housemark adopted in 1984
are material to the Company's business. The Company and Borg-Warner Security
Corporation ("BW-Security") have entered into an Assignment of Trademarks and
License Agreement (the "Trademark Agreement") whereby BW-Security assigned
certain trademarks and trade names (including the "Borg-Warner Automotive" trade
name) to the Company (which trademarks and trade names had been previously
licensed to the Company) for use in the automotive field. Pursuant to the
Trademark Agreement, the Company agreed to pay an additional $7.5 million to
BW-Security upon the occurrence of certain events, including a change of control
of the Company.

Competition

     The Company competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and
distributors which produce and sell similar products. Price, quality and
technological innovation are the primary elements of competition. The Company's
competitors include vertically integrated units of the Company's major OEM
customers, as well as a number of independent domestic and international
suppliers. Many of these companies are larger and have greater resources than
the Company.

     A number of the Company's major OEM customers manufacture, for their own
use and for others, products which compete with the Company's products. Although
these OEM customers have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside
suppliers, the OEMs could elect to manufacture products to meet their own
requirements or to compete with the Company. There can be no assurance that the
Company's business will not be adversely affected by increased competition in
the markets in which it operates.

     The competitive environment has changed dramatically over the past few
years as the Company's traditional United States OEM customers, faced with
intense international competition, have expanded their worldwide sourcing of
components with the stated objective of better competing with lower-cost
imports. As a result, the Company has experienced competition from suppliers in
other parts of the world enjoying economic advantages such as lower labor costs,
lower health care costs and, in some cases, export subsidies and/or raw
materials subsidies.

Employees

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had
approximately 10,400 salaried and hourly employees (as compared with 9,800
employees at December 31, 1996), of which approximately 8,100 were
U.S. employees. Approximately 37% of the Company's domestic hourly workers are
unionized. The Company's Muncie, Indiana plant has approximately 1,600 employees
represented by the United Auto Workers union. Approximately 880 hourly employees
at the Company's Ithaca, New York, plant are represented by the International
Association of Machinists. The collective bargaining agreement covering the
Muncie Plant expires in March 1998 and the collective bargaining agreement
covering the Ithaca plant expires in October 1998. The hourly workers at the
Company's European facilities are also unionized. The Company believes its
present relations with employees to be satisfactory.

Raw Materials

     The Company believes that its supplies of raw materials for manufacturing
requirements in 1998 are adequate and are available from multiple sources. It is
common, however, for customers to require their prior approval before certain
raw materials or components can be used, thereby reducing sources of supply that
would otherwise be available. Manufacturing operations are dependent upon
natural gas, fuel oil, propane and electricity.

Environmental Regulation and Proceedings

     The Company's operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge
to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and
disposal of waste and other materials. The Company believes that its business,
operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance in all
material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and
regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions
for violations. However, the operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants
entails risks in these areas, and there can be no assurance that the Company
will not incur material costs or liabilities. In addition, potentially
significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving
environmental and health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may
be adopted or imposed in the future.

     The Company believes that the overall impact of compliance with regulations
and legislation protecting the environment will not have a material effect on
its financial position or future operating results, although no assurance can be
given in this regard. Capital expenditures and expenses in 1997 attributable to
compliance with such legislation were not material.

     The Company and certain of its current and former direct and indirect
corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental
agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") at
various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("Superfund") and equivalent state laws
and, as such, may presently be liable for the cost of cleanup and other remedial
activities at 26 such sites. Responsibility for cleanup and other remedial
activities at a Superfund site is typically shared among PRPs based on an
allocation formula. The means of determining allocation among PRPs is generally
set forth in a written agreement entered into by the PRPs at a particular site.
An allocated share assigned to a PRP is often based on the PRP's volumetric
contribution of waste to a site and the characteristics of the waste material.

     Based on information available to the Company which, in most cases,
includes: an estimate of allocation of liability among PRPs; the probability
that other PRPs, many of whom are large, solvent public companies, will fully
pay the costs apportioned to them; currently available information from PRPs
and/or federal or state environmental agencies concerning the scope of
contamination and estimated remediation costs; remediation alternatives;
estimated legal fees; and other factors, the Company has established a reserve
for indicated environmental liabilities in the aggregate amount of approximately
$7.2 million at December 31, 1997. The Company expects this amount to be
expended over the next three to five years.

     The Company was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Borg-Warner Security
Corporation ("BW-Security") until January 27, 1993, at which time it was
distributed to the stockholders of BW-Security in a tax-free distribution (the
"Spin-Off"). In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and BW-Security
entered into a Distribution and Indemnity Agreement (the "Indemnity Agreement")
which provided for, among other matters, certain cross-indemnities designed
principally to place financial responsibility for the liabilities of businesses
conducted by BW-Security and its subsidiaries with BW-Security and financial
responsibility for liabilities of the Company or related to its automotive
businesses with the Company. BW-Security has requested indemnification from the
Company for past costs of approximately $3.3 million and for future costs
related to these environmental matters. At the time of the Spin-Off, BW-Security
maintained a letter of credit for approximately $9 million with respect to the
principal portion of such environmental matters. The parties submitted the
matter to arbitration and on November 4, 1997, the Arbitrator ruled against the
Company. The Company appealed the Arbitrator's ruling and on February 13, 1998,
the ruling was upheld by an arbitration appeal panel. The Company plans to
vigorously contest the arbitration award and plans to oppose any attempt by
BW-Security to obtain a judgment based on the arbitration. The Company does not
currently have information sufficient to determine the extent of its liability
to BW-Security for indemnification of such liabilities.

     In addition, on January 27, 1998, the Company filed a lawsuit in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against BW-Security and certain others,
alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty and breach of contract in
connection with apportionment of environmental liabilities and assets in the
Spin-Off. While the Company intends to pursue its claims vigorously and believes
such claims to be valid, it is too early in the proceedings to determine the
likelihood of success in this litigation. Both parties have agreed to mediate
this dispute.

     The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or in the
aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its financial position or
future operating results, generally either because estimates of the maximum
potential liability at a site are not large or because liability will be shared
with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with respect to the ultimate
outcome of any such matter.

Executive Officers

     Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other
information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of March 16,
1998.

Name                     Age       Position with Company
- --------                 -----     ---------------------
John F. Fiedler          59        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Robin J. Adams           44        Vice President and Treasurer
William C. Cline         48        Vice President and Controller
Gary P. Fukayama         50        Executive Vice President
Christopher A. Gebelein  51        Vice President--Business Development
Laurene H. Horiszny      42        Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
Geraldine Kinsella       50        Vice President--Human Resources
Fred M. Kovalik          60        Executive Vice President
Ronald M. Ruzic          59        Executive Vice President
Robert D. Welding        49        Vice President

     Mr. Fiedler has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 1996
and has been Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 1995. He was
President from June 1994 to March 1996. He was Chief Operating Officer from June
1994 to December 1994. Mr. Fiedler was Executive Vice President of Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Company, in charge of the North American Tire division, from 1991 to
1994. He is a director of Navistar International Corporation.

     Mr. Adams has been Vice President and Treasurer of the Company since May
1993. He was Assistant Treasurer of the Company from 1991 to 1993.

     Mr. Cline has been Vice President and Controller of the Company since May
1993. He was Assistant Controller of BW-Security from 1987 to 1993.

     Mr. Fukayama has been Executive Vice President of the Company since
November 1992 and is Group President and General Manager of Borg-Warner
Automotive Air/Fluid Systems Corporation. He was President and General Manager
of Borg-Warner Automotive Automatic Transmission Systems Corporation from
January 1995 to April 1996. He was President and General Manager of Borg-Warner
Automotive Transmission & Engine Components Corporation, Automatic Transmission
Systems from November 1992 to December 1994.

     Mr. Gebelein has been Vice President-Business Development of the Company
since January 1995. He was General Manager of Corporate Development of Inland
Steel Industries from 1987 to 1994.

     Ms. Horiszny has been Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of the
Company since May 1993. She was Assistant General Counsel of the Company from
December 1991 to 1993, and Senior Attorney from 1988 to December 1991.

     Ms. Kinsella has been Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since
May 1993. She was Vice President-Human Resources of Borg-Warner Automotive
Transmission & Engine Components Corporation, Automatic Transmission Systems
from November 1990 to 1993.

     Mr. Kovalik has been Executive Vice President of the Company since
March 1994 and is President and General Manager of Borg-Warner Automotive
Powertrain Systems Corporation. He was General Manager-Heavy and Medium Duty
Transmissions for Eaton Corporation from April 1992 to February 1994.

     Mr. Ruzic has been Executive Vice President of the Company since
October 1992 and is Group President and General Manager of Borg-Warner
Automotive Morse TEC Corporation ("Morse TEC"). He was President and General
Manager of Borg-Warner Automotive Transmission & Engine Components Corporation,
Chain Systems, from October 1989 to December 1994 and of Morse TEC from
January 1995 to October 1997.

     Mr. Welding has been Vice President of the Company since May 1996 and is
President and General Manager of Borg-Warner Automotive Automatic Transmission
Systems Corporation. He was Vice President--Operations of Borg-Warner Automotive
Automatic Transmission Systems Corporation, Bellwood Plant, from November 1993
to May 1996. He was Vice President--Operations of Borg-Warner Automotive
Automatic Transmission Systems Corporation, Frankfort Plant, from November 1990
to October 1993.

Item 2.  Properties

     The Company has numerous manufacturing facilities which are strategically
located in the United States and worldwide. The Company has three facilities in
Germany, two facilities in Japan, India and Italy, and one facility in each of
Canada, China, France, Korea, Taiwan and Wales. The Company also has numerous
sales offices, warehouses and technical centers. The Company's executive
offices, which are leased, are located in Chicago, Illinois. In general, the
Company believes that its properties are in good condition and are adequate to
meet its current and reasonably anticipated needs.

     The following is additional information concerning the major manufacturing
plants operated by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless
otherwise noted, these plants are owned by the Company.



(1)  The figure shown in each case is a weighted average of the percentage
utilization of each major plant within the category, with an individual plant
weighted in proportion to the number of employees employed when such plant runs
at 100% capacity. Capacity utilization at the 100% level is defined as operating
five days per week, with two eight-hour shifts per day and normal vacation
schedules.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Company is presently, and is from time to time, subject to claims and
suits arising in the ordinary course of its business. In certain such actions,
plaintiffs request punitive or other damages that may not be covered by
insurance. The Company believes that it has established adequate provisions for
litigation liabilities in its financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These provisions include both legal fees and
possible outcomes of legal proceedings.

     Centaur Insurance Company ("Centaur"), a discontinued property and casualty
insurance subsidiary and a wholly owned subsidiary of BW-Security, ceased
writing insurance in 1984 and has been operating under rehabilitation since
September 1987. Rehabilitation is a process supervised by the Illinois Director
of Insurance to attempt to compromise liabilities at an aggregate level that is
not in excess of Centaur's assets. In rehabilitation, Centaur's assets are
currently being used to satisfy claim liabilities under direct insurance
policies written by Centaur. Any remaining assets will be applied to Centaur's
obligations to other insurance companies under reinsurance contracts. The
foregoing has resulted in several lawsuits seeking substantial dollar amounts
being filed against BW-Security, and in some cases the Company, for recovery of
alleged damages from the failure of Centaur to satisfy its reinsurance
obligations. All of these lawsuits, except one to which the Company is not
currently a party, have been settled. The defense of this litigation is being
managed by BW-Security and the Company is indemnified by BW-Security for any
losses or expenses arising out of the litigation.

     It is the opinion of the Company that the various asserted claims and
litigation in which the Company is currently involved will not materially affect
its financial position or future operating results, although no assurance can be
given with respect to the ultimate outcome for any such claim or litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders of the Company
during the fourth quarter of 1997.

                                      PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters

     The Company's Common Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. As of March 16, 1998, there were approximately 244 holders of record
of Common Stock and one registered holder of the Company's Non-Voting Common
Stock.

     The Company has paid cash dividends of $.15 per share on its Common Stock
and Non-Voting Common Stock during each quarter for the last two fiscal years.
While the Company currently expects that comparable quarterly cash dividends
will continue to be paid in the future, the dividend policy is subject to review
and change at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

     High and low sales prices (as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape) for the Common Stock for each quarter in 1996 and 1997 were:



Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

     The Selected Financial Data for the five years ended December 31, 1997 with
respect to the following line items set forth on page 38 of the Company's Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report: Net
sales; earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change; earnings per
share before cumulative effect of accounting change; total assets; total debt;
and cash dividend declared per share. See the material incorporated herein by
reference in response to Item 7 of this report for a discussion of the factors
that materially affect the comparability of the information contained in such
data.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

     The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations set forth on pages 17 through 22 in the Company's Annual Report
are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this report.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto) of the
Company and the Independent Auditors' Report as set forth on pages 23 through 37
in the Company's Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference and made a
part of this report. Supplementary financial information regarding quarterly
results of operations (unaudited) for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996
is set forth in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 35 of the Company's Annual Report. For a list of financial statements filed
as part of this report, see Item 14, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
and Reports on Form 8-K" beginning on page 13.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     Information with respect to directors and nominees for election as
directors of the Company under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 1
through 3 of the Company's Proxy Statement and information under the caption
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 6 of the
Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of
this report. Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Part I of this report.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     Information with respect to compensation of executive officers and
directors of the Company under the captions "Compensation of Directors" on
pages 4 and 5 of the Company's Proxy Statement and "Executive Compensation,"
"Stock Options," "Long-Term Incentive Plans," and "Employment Agreements" on
pages 7 through 10 of the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference and made a part of this report.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     Information with respect to security ownership by persons known to the
Company to beneficially own more than five percent of the Company's Common
Stock, by directors and nominees for directors of the Company and by all
directors and executive officers of the Company as a group under the caption
"Stock Ownership" on page 5 of the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference and made a part of this report.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions
under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" on pages 15
through 16 of the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference
and made a part of this report.

PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a)  1. The following consolidated financial statements of the Company on
pages 23 through 37 of the Company's Annual Report are incorporated herein by
reference:

 Independent Auditors' Report

 Consolidated Statements of Operations--years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 
 and 1995

 Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 31, 1997 and 1996

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity--years ended December 31, 
  1997, 1996 and 1995

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     2.  Certain schedules for which provisions are made in the applicable
accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under the related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have
been omitted.

     3.  The exhibits filed in response to Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed
in the Exhibit Index on page A-1.

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the three-month
period ended December 31, 1997.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                         BORG-WARNER AUTOMOTIVE, INC.

                         By: /s/  John F. Fiedler
                         -------------------------
                             John F. Fiedler
                         Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

                         Date: March 20, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on this
20th day of March, 1998.

Signature                          Title

/s/ John F. Fiedler      Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
John F. Fiedler          Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Robin J. Adams       Vice President and Treasurer (Principal
Robin J. Adams           Financial Officer)

/s/ William C. Cline          Vice President and Controller (Principal
William C. Cline         Accounting Officer)

*
Andrew F. Brimmer        Director

*
William E. Butler        Director

*
Jere A. Drummond         Director

*
Paul E. Glaske           Director

*
Ivan W. Gorr             Director

*
James J. Kerley          Director

*
Alexis P. Michas         Director

*
John Rau                 Director

/s/ John F. Fiedler      As attorney-in-fact for the directors marked
John F. Fiedler          by an asterisk.

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number         Document Description
- ---------      -----------------------
*3.1      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit No. 3.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on 
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993).

*3.2      By-laws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.2 
          of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1993).

*4.1      Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1996, between Borg-Warner
          Automotive, Inc. and The First National Bank of Chicago 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to Registration 
          Statement No. 333-14717).

*10.1     Credit Agreement dated as of December 7, 1994 among Borg-Warner
          Automotive, Inc., as Borrower, the Lenders listed therein,as Lenders,
          Chemical Bank and the Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, 
          Chemical Bank, as Administrative Agent and The Bank of Nova Scotia 
          as Documentation Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1
          to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
          December 31, 1994).
     
*10.2     First Amendment of Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 1995
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995).

*10.3     Second Amendment of Credit Agreement dated as of January 16, 1996
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

*10.4     Replacement and Restatement Agreement dated as of October 10, 1996 to
          the Credit Agreement dated as of December 7, 1994 (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
          September 30, 1996).

*10.5     Distribution and Indemnity Agreement dated January 27, 1993 between
          Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. and Borg-Warner Security Corporation
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to Registration 
          Statement No. 33-64934).

*10.6     Tax Sharing Agreement dated January 27, 1993 between Borg-Warner
          Automotive, Inc. and Borg-Warner Security Corporation (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to Registration Statement No. 
          33-64934).

 *10.7    Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Management Stock Option Plan, as amended
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.6 to Registration
          Statement No. 33-64934).

 *10.8    Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan as amended 
          effective November 8, 1995 and further amended April 29, 1997 
          (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's Proxy 
          Statement dated March 21, 1997).

Exhibit
Number    Document Description
- ------    ---------------------
*10.9     Receivables Transfer Agreement dated as of January 28, 1994 among BWA
          Receivables Corporation, ABN AMRO Bank N.V. as Agent and the Program 
          LOC Provider and Windmill Funding Corporation (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit No. 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on 
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

*10.10    First Amendment of Receivables Transfer Agreement dated as of December
          21, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.11 to the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1994).

*10.11    Second Amendment of Receivables Transfer Agreement dated as of
          January 1, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to
          the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  
          March 31, 1995).

*10.12    Third Amendment of Receivables Transfer Agreement dated as of
          October 23, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.11 to
          the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
          December 31, 1995).

*10.13    Fourth Amendment of Receivables Transfer Agreement dated as of
          June 21, 1996 (incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996).

*10.14    Service Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1992, by and between
          Borg-Warner Security Corporation and Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc.
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.10 to Registration 
          Statement No. 33-64934).

 *10.15  Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Transitional Income Guidelines for 
         Executive Officers amended as of May 1, 1989 (incorporated by 
         reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 *10.16   Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Management Incentive Bonus Plan dated
          January 1, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.18 to the
          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
          1993).

 *10.17   Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Retirement Savings Excess Benefit Plan
          dated January 27, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.20
          of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
          December 31, 1993).

 *10.18   Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Retirement Savings Plan dated January 27,
          1993 as further amended and restated effective as of April 1, 1994 
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Annual 
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995).

 *10.19   Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan dated
          January 1, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.24 of 
          the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 
          31, 1993).

+*10.20   Form of Employment Agreement for John F. Fiedler (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit No. 10.0 of the Company's Quarterly Report on 
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994.)

+10.21    Form of Employment Agreement for John F. Fiedler dated January 27,
          1998.



Exhibit
Number    Document Description
- -------   ---------------------
+*10.22   Form of Change of Control Employment Agreement for Executive Officers
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Company's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 
          1997).

+10.23    Amendment to the Change of Control Employment Agreement between the 
          Company and John F. Fiedler effective January 30, 1998.

*10.24    Assignment of Trademarks and License Agreement (incorporated by 
          reference to Exhibit No. 10.0 of the Company's Quarterly Report on
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

+*10.25   Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc. Executive Stock Performance Plan
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.23 of the Company's 
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995).

*10.26    Agreement of Purchase and Sale dated as of May 31, 1996 by and among
          Coltec Industries Inc., Holley Automotive Group, Ltd., Holley
          Automotive Inc., Coltec Automotive Inc., and Holley Automotive Systems
          GmbH and Borg-Warner Automotive, Inc., Borg-Warner Automotive
          Air/Fluid Systems Corporation and Borg-Warner Automotive Air/Fluid 
          Systems Corporation of Michigan (incorporated by reference to    
          Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of 
          June 17, 1996).

13.1      Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997
          with manually signed Independent Auditors' Report. (The Annual Report,
          except for those portions which are expressly incorporated by   
          reference in the Form 10-K, is furnished for the information of the
          Commission and is not deemed filed as part of the Form 10-K).

21.1      Subsidiaries of the Company.

23.1      Independent Auditors' Consent.

24.1      Power of Attorney.

27.1      Financial Data Schedule.

99.1      Cautionary Statements.

* Incorporated by reference.

+ Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c).



