
10-K



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
                                       [X]
[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended SEPTEMBER 30, 1996
                                                  OR
                                                  [ ]
[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to
                          Commission file number 1-9318

                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              DELAWARE                                    13-2670991
               State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer
               incorporation or organization)       Identification No.)
777 MARINERS ISLAND BLVD., SAN MATEO, CA                   94404
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code (415 312-2000) 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class     Name of each exchange on which registered

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE     NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 
COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE     PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE 
COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE     LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE
                                (Title of class)


                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES X NO ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, based upon the closing price of $64.750 on December 13, 1996 on the
New York Stock Exchange was $2,684,730,286. Calculation of holdings by
non-affiliates is based upon the assumption, for these purposes only, that
officers, directors, nominees, Registrant's Profit Sharing Plan and persons
holding 5% or more of Registrant's Common Stock are affiliates. Number of shares
of the registrant's common stock outstanding at December 13, 1996: 83,739,711.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
    Certain portions of the registrant's proxy statement for its Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held January 23, 1997, which will be filed with the
Commission before, on or subsequent to the date hereof, are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report.





PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(A)        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Franklin Resources, Inc. ("FRI") and its predecessors have been engaged in the
financial services business since 1947. FRI was organized in Delaware in
November 1969. The term "Company" as used herein, unless the context otherwise
requires, refers to Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company's
principal executive and administrative offices are at 777 Mariners Island
Boulevard, San Mateo, California 94404. As of September 30, 1996, the Company
employed approximately 4,960 employees on a worldwide basis, consisting of
officers,
investment management, distribution, administrative, sales and clerical support
staff. The Company also employs additional temporary help as necessary to meet
unusual requirements. Management believes that its relations with its employees
are excellent.

On October 30, 1992, the Company and certain of its direct and indirect
subsidiaries consummated the Templeton acquisition (the "Templeton Acquisition")
of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Templeton, Galbraith &
Hansberger Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands
and based in Nassau, Bahamas ("Old TGH"), which provided diversified investment
management and related services on a worldwide basis directly and through
subsidiaries to various domestic open-end and closed-end investment companies as
well as to a variety of international investment portfolios and to domestic and
international private and institutional accounts. Unless the context otherwise
requires, references herein to "Templeton" are deemed to refer to the business
operations acquired by the Company in connection with the Templeton Acquisition.
Subsequent to the Templeton Acquisition, the Company has operated the Franklin
and Templeton businesses on a unified basis.

In November 1993, the Company consummated an agreement to manage and advise the
Huntington Funds of Pasadena, California, now called the Franklin Templeton
Global Trust. This open-end investment company of several currency portfolio
series includes the Franklin Templeton Global Currency Fund, the Franklin
Templeton Hard Currency Fund and the Franklin Templeton High Income Currency
Fund, which invests in high quality foreign equivalent money market instruments
in various global currencies, as well as the Franklin Templeton German
Government Bond Fund, which invests in German government bonds and equivalents.

In November 1996, after the close of the fiscal year, the Company and its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc. ("FMAI") acquired (the
"Mutual Acquisition") certain assets and liabilities of Heine Securities
Corporation ("Heine"). FMAI became the investment adviser to Heine's principal
client, Mutual Series Fund Inc., an open-end investment company with five (5)
series funds ("Mutual Series").

The base purchase price consisted of a $400 million cash payment, the delivery
of 1.1 million shares (the "Shares") of the Company's Common Stock and the
deposit into escrow of $150 million to be invested in shares of Mutual Series.,
which shares will be released over a five year period, with a minimum $100
million retention for the full five year period. In addition to the base
purchase price, the transaction included a contingent payment ranging from
$96.25 million to $192.5 million if certain agreed upon growth targets are met
over the next five years.

For a two-year period following the closing of the Mutual Acquisition, Heine and
its chief executive officer, Michael F. Price must limit their ownership of the
Company's common stock to no more than 4.9% and have also agreed to certain
limitations on the transferability of the Shares. In addition, the Shares must
be voted in accordance with the recommendations of the Company's Board of
Directors. The Company has also granted certain registration rights with respect
to the Shares. Mr. Price and five senior executives of Heine entered into
employment agreements assumed by FMAI upon the consummation of the transaction.

The purchase price paid at the closing, which took place effective as of
November 1, 1996, was funded through a combination of the Company's available
cash, securities and the sale of commercial paper.

The description of the Company's business does not include matters relating to
the Mutual Acquisition which occurred after the close of the fiscal year.

FRI is principally a parent company primarily engaged, through various
subsidiaries, in providing investment management, marketing, distribution,
transfer agency and administrative services to the open-end investment companies
of the Franklin Templeton Group of Funds and to domestic and international
managed and institutional accounts. The Company also provides investment
management and related services to a number of Franklin and Templeton closed-end
investment companies whose shares are traded on various major domestic and some
international stock exchanges. In addition, the Company provides investment
management, marketing and distribution services to certain sponsored investment
companies organized in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (hereinafter referred to as
"SICAV Funds"), which are distributed in marketplaces outside of North America
and to certain investment funds and portfolios in Canada (hereinafter referred
to as "Canadian Funds") as well as to certain other international portfolios in
the United Kingdom and elsewhere. The Franklin Group of Funds("R") consists of
thirty-five (35) open-end investment companies (mutual funds) with multiple
portfolios. The Templeton Family of Funds includes fourteen (14) open-end
investment companies (mutual funds) with multiple portfolios.

The Franklin Group of Funds and the Templeton Family of Funds are hereinafter
referred to individually as a "Franklin fund" or a "Templeton fund" and
collectively as the "Franklin funds" or the "Templeton funds", or, when
applicable to both fund groups, individually as a "Fund" and collectively as the
"Franklin and Templeton funds" or the "Funds". The closed-end investment
companies, the foreign based funds and the other domestic and international
managed and institutional accounts are collectively referred to as the "Other
Assets". The Franklin and Templeton funds along with the Other Assets are
collectively referred to as the "Franklin Templeton Group".

As of September 30, 1996, (which excludes assets under management after the
close of the fiscal year resulting from the Mutual Acquisition) total assets
under management in the Franklin Templeton Group were $151.6 billion, the
make-up of which was approximately as follows: for the open-end investment
companies in the Franklin Group of Funds (excluding variable annuities), $73.5
billion; for the open-end investment companies in the Templeton Family of Funds
(excluding variable annuities), $41.7 billion; for all the Other Assets
(including variable annuities), $36.4 billion. This makes the Franklin Templeton
Group one of the largest investment management complexes in the United States.

The mix of assets under management by a large financial services complex such as
the Franklin Templeton Group can be segregated by type of assets, type of
investment vehicle, type of investor or geographic location of assets held.
International and domestic equity assets under management, whether held for
growth potential, income potential or various combinations thereof by all types
of investors, including institutional and separate accounts on a worldwide
basis, were approximately $86.7 billion at September 30, 1996 and represent
approximately 57% of total assets under management. Fixed-income assets (both
long and short-term), including money market fund assets, held by all types of
investors on a worldwide basis were approximately $64.9 billion and represented
43% of total assets under management at fiscal year end. Equity growth and
equity income assets in funds primarily sold to non institutional investors were
$66.4 billion and represented 44% of total assets under management at fiscal
year end. A significant portion of these equity assets ($47.2 billion) held in
funds sold primarily to non institutional investors were in global and
international equity funds. Assets under management for institutional accounts,
whether in institutional mutual funds, separate accounts or other types of
investment products, were approximately $21.3 billion or 14% of total assets
under management at fiscal year end and were primarily invested in global and
international equities. Assets under management by U.S. based closed-end funds
were $4.2 billion at September 30, 1996.

The Company, through certain subsidiaries, also provides advisory services,
variable annuity products, and sponsors and manages public and private real
estate programs. Other subsidiaries offer consumer banking services, insured
deposits, dealer auto loans, and credit cards. The Company also provides
custodial, trustee and fiduciary services to IRA and profit sharing or money
purchase plans and to qualified retirement plans and private trusts. From time
to time, the Company also participates in various investment management joint
ventures. On a consolidated worldwide basis, the Company provides domestic and
international individual and institutional investors with a broad range of
investment products and services designed to meet varying investment objectives,
which affords its clients the opportunity to allocate their investment resources
among various alternative investment products as changing worldwide economic and
market conditions warrant.

SUBSIDIARIES-INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATION, DISTRIBUTION AND RELATED
SERVICES

The Company's principal line of business is providing investment management,
administration, distribution and related services for the Franklin and Templeton
funds and for the Other Assets. This business is primarily conducted through the
principal wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiary companies described below.
Revenues are generated primarily by subsidiaries that provide advisory and
management services. Revenues are derived primarily from investment management
fees calculated on a sliding scale fund-by-fund basis in relation to fund assets
under management.

FRANKLIN ADVISERS, INC.

Franklin Advisers, Inc. ("Advisers") is a California corporation formed in 1985
and is based in San Mateo, California. Advisers is registered as an investment
advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the "SEC") under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers Act") and is also registered as
an investment advisor in the States of California and New Jersey. Advisers
provides investment advisory, portfolio management and administrative services
under management agreements with most of the Funds in the Franklin Group of
Funds. Advisers manages approximately $81.3 billion, representing approximately
54% of the Company's total assets under management, and generates approximately
25% of total Company revenues.

FRANKLIN ADVISORY SERVICES, INC.

Franklin Advisory Services, Inc. ("FASI") is a Delaware corporation formed in
1996 and is based in Fort Lee, New Jersey. FASI is registered as an investment
advisor with the SEC under the Advisers Act and is also registered as an
investment advisor in the State of New Jersey. FASI provides investment advisory
and portfolio management services under management agreements with certain funds
in the Franklin Group of Funds.


TEMPLETON GLOBAL ADVISORS LIMITED.

Templeton Global Advisors Limited "TGAL" is a Bahamian corporation located in
Nassau, Bahamas formed in connection with the Templeton Acquisition and is the
successor company to Old TGH. TGAL is registered as an investment advisor with
the SEC under the Advisers Act. TGAL provides investment advisory, portfolio
management and administrative services under various agreements with certain of
the Templeton funds and Other Assets. TGAL is the principal investment advisor
to the Templeton funds and manages approximately $34.8 billion, representing
approximately 23% of the Company's total assets under management.

FRANKLIN INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICES, INC.

Franklin Investment Advisory Services, Inc. ("FIASI") is a Delaware corporation
formed in 1996 and is based in Norwalk, Connecticut. FIASI is registered as an
investment advisor with the SEC under the Advisers Act.

FRANKLIN TEMPLETON SERVICES, INC.

Franklin Templeton Services, Inc. ("FTSI") is a Delaware corporation formed in
1996 and is based in San Mateo, California. FTSI provides business management
services, including fund accounting, securities pricing, trading, compliance and
other related administrative activities under various management agreements to
certain of the Franklin and Templeton funds.

TEMPLETON INVESTMENT COUNSEL, INC.

Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc. ("TICI") is a Florida corporation formed in
October, 1979, based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida TICI is the principal investment
advisor to managed and institutional accounts. In addition, it provides
investment advisory portfolio management services to certain of the Templeton
funds and subadvisory services to certain of the Franklin funds. TICI manages
approximately $13.9 billion, representing 9% of the Company's total assets under
management.


TEMPLETON ASSET MANAGEMENT LTD.

Templeton Asset Management Ltd. ("Templeton Singapore") is a corporation
organized under the laws of and based in Singapore. It is registered as the
foreign equivalent of an investment advisor in Singapore with the Monetary
Authority of Singapore and is also registered with the SEC under the Advisers
Act. A representative office of Templeton Singapore is registered as the foreign
equivalent of an investment advisor in Hong Kong. Templeton Singapore provides
investment advisory and related services to certain Templeton funds and
portfolios. Templeton Singapore is principally an investment advisor to emerging
market equity portfolios.

TEMPLETON/FRANKLIN INVESTMENT SERVICES (ASIA) LIMITED

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited is a corporation organized
under the laws of, and is based in, Hong Kong. It was formed in late 1993 to
distribute and service the Company's financial products in Asia.

TEMPLETON MANAGEMENT LIMITED

Templeton Management Limited is a Canadian corporation formed in October 1982,
and is registered in Canada as the foreign equivalent of an investment advisor
and a mutual fund dealer with the Ontario Securities Commission. It provides
investment advisory, portfolio management, distribution and administrative
services under various management agreements with the Canadian Funds and with
private and institutional accounts.

FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON DISTRIBUTORS, INC.

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("Distributors") is a New York corporation
formed in 1947. It is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer and as an
investment advisor and is a member of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD"). As the underwriter of the shares of most of the
Franklin and Templeton funds, it earns underwriting commissions on the
distribution of shares of the Funds.

TEMPLETON/FRANKLIN INVESTMENT SERVICES, INC.

Templeton/Franklin Investment Services, Inc. ("TFIS") is a Delaware corporation
formed in October 1987 and is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer and an
investment advisor. Its principal business activities include: (i) through its
Templeton Portfolio Advisory division, serving as a sponsor of a comprehensive
fee (wrap account) program, in which it provides investment advisory and
broker-dealer services, as well as serving as investment adviser in other
broker-dealer wrap account programs and directly as an adviser for separate
accounts; and (ii) serving as a direct marketing broker-dealer for institutional
investors in Franklin Templeton Funds.

FRANKLIN/TEMPLETON INVESTOR SERVICES, INC.

Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. ("FTIS") is a California corporation
formed in 1981 which provides shareholder record keeping services and acts as
transfer agent and dividend-paying agent for the Franklin and Templeton funds.
FTIS is registered with the SEC as a transfer agent under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). FTIS is compensated under an
agreement with each Franklin and Templeton open-end mutual fund on the basis of
a fixed annual fee per account, which varies with the Fund and the type of
services being provided.

OTHER TEMPLETON INVESTMENT ADVISORY, DISTRIBUTION, RESEARCH AND RELATED
SUBSIDIARIES are organized and/or located in California, Florida, Australia, the
Bahamas, France, Germany, India, Italy, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom, and
provide investment advisory and related services to other subsidiaries of the
Company and to various domestic and foreign portfolios and private and
institutional accounts. In addition, the Company, through various Templeton
subsidiaries, has opened or is in the process of opening branch offices or in
some instances forming subsidiaries in various other international locations,
including Argentina, Cyprus, Hungary, Japan, Mauritius, Russia, South Africa,
and Vietnam.

FRANKLIN TEMPLETON TRUST COMPANY

Franklin Templeton Trust Company ("FTTC"), a California corporation formed in
October 1983, is a trust company licensed by the California Superintendent of
Banks. FTTC serves primarily as custodian for Individual Retirement Accounts and
profit sharing or money purchase plans whose assets are invested in the Franklin
and Templeton funds, and as trustee or fiduciary of private trusts and
retirement plans.

TEMPLETON FUNDS TRUST COMPANY

Templeton Funds Trust Company ("TFTC"), a Florida corporation formed in
December, 1985, is a trust company licensed by the Florida Office of the
Comptroller. TFTC provides sub-administration services through Franklin
Templeton Trust Company to Individual Retirement Accounts and profit sharing or
money purchase whose assets are invested in the Templeton Family of Funds, and
serves as trustee of commingled trusts for qualified retirement plans.

FRANKLIN MANAGEMENT, INC.

Franklin Management, Inc. ("FMI"), a California corporation organized in
February 1978, is a registered investment advisor for private accounts. FMI also
provides advisory services to third party broker-dealer wrap fee programs.

FRANKLIN INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES CORPORATION

Franklin Institutional Services Corporation ("FISCO") is a California
corporation organized in August 1991. FISCO is a registered investment advisor
and provides services to bank trust departments, municipalities, corporate and
public pension plans and pension consultants.

FRANKLIN AGENCY, INC.

Franklin Agency, Inc. ("Agency") is a California corporation organized in
December 1971. Agency provides insurance agency services for the Franklin
Valuemark annuity products.

TEMPLETON FUNDS ANNUITY COMPANY

Templeton Funds Annuity Company ("TFAC") is a Florida corporation formed in
January 1984 which offers variable annuity products. TFAC is principally
regulated by the Florida Department of Insurance and Treasurer.

TEMPLETON WORLDWIDE, INC.

Templeton Worldwide, Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in July 1992 as
the parent holding company for all of the Templeton companies .

SUBSIDIARIES-OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES

In addition to its principal business activity of providing investment
management and related services, during all or portions of the fiscal year, the
Company was also engaged in two (2) other lines of business in the financial
services marketplace conducted through the subsidiaries described below:
consumer lending services and the management of public and private real estate
programs.


Consumer Lending Services

FRANKLIN BANK (the "Bank"), a 98.2%-owned subsidiary of the Company, is a
non-Federal Reserve member California State chartered bank. The Bank was formed
in 1974 and was acquired by the Company in December 1985. The Bank, with total
assets of $152.3 million as of September 30, 1996, provides consumer banking
products and services such as credit cards, auto loans, deposit accounts and
consumer loans. The Bank does not exercise its commercial lending powers in
order to maintain its status as a "non-bank bank" pursuant to the provisions of
the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA") which permits the Company,
a "non banking company" prior to CEBA, to remain exempt from the Bank Holding
Company Act under the "grandfathering" provisions of CEBA. As a non-bank bank,
it is subject to various regulatory limitations, including limits on the
increase in its asset growth to 7% on an annual basis as well as a prohibition
on engaging in any activity in which it was not engaged in March of 1987.

FRANKLIN CAPITAL CORPORATION

Franklin Capital Corporation ("FCC") is a Utah corporation formed in June 1993
to expand the Company's auto lending activities. FCC conducts its business
primarily in the Western region of the United States and originates its loans
through a network of auto dealerships representing a wide variety of makes and
models. FCC offers several different loan programs to finance new and used
vehicles. FCC also acquires credit card receivables from the Bank. As of
September 30, 1996, FCC's total assets included $174.6 million of gross
automobile contracts and $70.4 million of gross credit card receivables.

Real Estate Subsidiaries

The Company's real estate related line of business is conducted primarily
through two (2) principal subsidiary corporations. Franklin Properties, Inc.
("FPI") is a real estate investment and management company organized in
California in April 1988, which managed three (3) publicly traded real estate
investment trusts, until May 7, 1996, at which time two of the real estate
investment trusts were merged into the third real estate investment trust, and
renamed Franklin Select Realty Trust, Inc. Franklin Select Realty Trust, Inc.
continues to be managed by FPI under an advisory agreement and is publicly
traded on the American Stock Exchange Property Resources, Inc. ("PRI"), a
California corporation organized in April 1967 and acquired by the Company in
December 1985, serves as general partner or advisor for certain other real
estate investment programs.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

The Franklin Templeton Group accommodates a variety of investment objectives,
including, capital appreciation, growth and income, income, tax-free income and
stability of principal. In seeking to achieve such objectives, each portfolio
emphasizes different investment securities. Portfolios seeking income focus on
taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments, tax-exempt municipal bonds,
fixed-income debt securities of corporations and of the United States government
and its agencies and instrumentalities such as the Government National Mortgage
Association ("GNMA" or "Ginnie Mae"), the Federal National Mortgage Association
("Fannie Mae"), and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac").
Portfolios that seek capital appreciation invest primarily in equity securities
in a wide variety of international and domestic markets, some seek broad
national market exposure, while others focus on narrower sectors such as
precious metals, health care, emerging technology, mid-cap companies, small-cap
companies, real estate securities and utilities. Still others focus on
investments in particular emerging market countries and regions. A majority of
the assets managed are equity oriented.

In addition to closed-end funds, many of which are described below, the Other
Assets include portfolios managed for the world's largest corporations,
endowments, charitable foundations, pension funds, wealthy individuals and other
institutions. Investment management services for such portfolios focus on
specific client objectives utilizing the various investment techniques offered
by the Franklin Templeton Group.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, except for the Company's money
market funds, and funds specifically designed for institutional investors, whose
shares are sold without a sales charge at all purchase levels, shares of the
open-end funds in the Franklin and Templeton funds were generally sold at their
respective net asset value per share plus a sales charge, which varies depending
upon the type of share, the individual fund and the amount purchased. In
accordance with certain terms and conditions described in the prospectuses for
such Funds, certain investors are eligible to purchase shares at net asset value
or at reduced sales charges, and investors may generally exchange their shares
of a fund at net asset value for shares of another fund in the Franklin
Templeton Group when they believe such an investment decision is appropriate
without the payment of additional sales charges.

As of September 30, 1996, the net asset holdings of the five largest funds in
the Franklin Templeton Group (some of which are investment companies and some of
which are series of other investment companies) were Franklin California
Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. ($13.6 billion), Franklin U.S. Government Securities
Fund ($10.2 billion), Templeton Foreign Fund ($10.5 billion), Templeton Growth
Fund ($9.0 billion) and the Franklin Federal Tax-Free Income Fund ($7.1
billion). At September 30, 1996, these five mutual funds represented, in the
aggregate, 33% of all assets under management in the Franklin Templeton Group.


General Fund Description

Set forth in the  tables  below is a brief  description  of the Funds and of the
principal  investments  and  investment  strategies  of such Funds or portfolios
comprising most of the principal  Funds or portfolios in the Franklin  Templeton
Group separated into 21 different general categories as follows:


        (i)   Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital
              and Income

        (ii)  Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

        (iii) Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

        (iv)  Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

        (v)   Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

        (vi)  Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments
              (Valuemark variable annuity)

        (vii) Franklin Closed-End Funds

        (viii)Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

        (ix)  Franklin Templeton International Currency
              Funds

        (x)   Templeton Funds Seeking Preservation of
              Capital and Income

        (xi)  Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from
              Global Portfolios

        (xii) Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from
              Domestic Portfolios

        (xiii)Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income
              from Global Portfolios

        (xiv) Templeton Funds Seeking High Total Return from
              Global Portfolios

        (xv)  Templeton Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

        (xvi) Templeton Contractual Plans

        (xvii)Templeton SICAV Funds

       (xviii)Templeton Canadian Funds

        (xix) Templeton Closed-End Funds

        (xx)  Templeton Funds for Institutional Investors

        (xxi) Representative Templeton International
              Portfolios

        


(i)  Franklin Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Franklin California   9/3/85      Seeks double tax-free income
Tax-Exempt Money Fund             (free from federal and state
                                  personal income taxes) by
                                  investing in short-term
                                  California municipal securities.

Franklin Federal      5/13/80     Seeks high current income by
Money Fund                        investing in short-term
                                  instruments backed by U.S.
                                  government securities.

Franklin Money Fund   5/1/76      Seeks capital preservation, liquidity and
                                  dividends by investing in short-term
                                  securities (money market instruments).

Franklin New York     9/3/85      Seeks triple tax-free income
Tax-Exempt Money Fund             (free from federal, N.Y. state
                                  and N.Y. city taxes) by
                                  investing in short-term New York
                                  municipal securities.

Franklin Tax-Exempt  2/18/82     Seeks income free from federal
Money Fund                        taxes by investing in short-term
                                  municipal securities.

Franklin Templeton    5/1/95      Seeks capital preservation,
Money Fund II                     liquidity and dividends, by
                                  investing in short-term securities.  Open only
                                  to  shareholders  exchanging  out of  Class II
                                  shares in other Franklin Templeton Funds.

(ii) Franklin Funds Seeking Current Income

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Franklin Adjustable   12/26/91    Seeks high current income and
Rate Securities Fund              increased price stability by
                                  investing  in  Double A rated  mortgage-backed
                                  securities: ARMS created by private issuers as
                                  well as Ginnie  Mae,  Fannie  Mae and  Freddie
                                  Mac.

Franklin Adjustable   10/20/87    Seeks income with lower
U.S. Government                   volatility of principal by
Securities Fund                   investing in government or
                                  government agency guaranteed
                                  adjustable rate mortgage-backed
                                  securities.

Franklin Corporate    1/14/87     Seeks high after-tax income for
Qualified Dividend                corporations by investing in
Fund                              preferred securities and by
                                  maximizing the amount of
                                  dividend income it receives that
                                  qualifies for the
                                  dividends-received deduction.

Franklin Global       3/15/88     Seeks high current income by
Government Income                 investing primarily in
Fund                              fixed-income securities issued
                                  by both domestic and foreign
                                  governments.

Franklin Investment   1/14/87     Seeks high current income by
Grade Income Fund                 investing in debt securities,
                                  most  of  which  will  be  intermediate   term
                                  investment  grade issues and  dividend  paying
                                  common and preferred stocks.

Franklin              4/15/87     Seeks income and relative
Short-Intermediate                stability of principal by
U.S. Government                   investing in less volatile,
Securities Fund                   shorter term securities of U.S.
                                  government securities carrying
                                  the full faith and credit
                                  guarantee of the U.S. government.

Franklin Tax-         5/4/87      Seeks high current income by
Advantaged U.S.                   investing in a portfolio limited
Government                        to securities that are
Securities Fund                   obligations of the U.S.
                                  government, exempt from
                                  non-resident alien taxation
                                  (Ginnie Mae securities).
                                  Designed for non-U.S. investors.

Franklin              5/4/87      Seeks high current income by
Tax-Advantaged High               investing in high yield
Yield Securities Fund             corporate bonds, exempt from
                                  non-resident alien taxation.
                                  Designed for non-U.S. investors.

Franklin              6/9/90      Seeks high current income by
Tax-Advantaged                    investing in qualifying debt
International Bond                securities and foreign currency
Fund                              denominated debt securities of
                                  non-U.S. issuers, not subject to
                                  U.S. federal income tax or U.S.
                                  tax withholding requirements.
                                  Designed for non-U.S. investors.

Franklin Templeton    12/31/92    Seeks total return by investing
German Government                 in a managed portfolio of German 
Bond Fund                         government bonds.

Franklin's AGE High   12/31/69    Seeks high current income by
Income Fund                       investing in high yielding lower
                                  rated corporate bonds.

U.S. Government       5/31/70     Seeks high current income by
Securities Series (a              investing in a portfolio limited
series of Franklin                to securities that are
Custodian Funds,                  obligations of the U.S.
Inc.)                             government or its
                                  instrumentalities (Ginnie Mae
                                  securities).


(iii) Franklin Funds Seeking Tax-Free Income

Federal Tax-Free
Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Franklin Federal      9/21/92     Seeks high current income by
Intermediate-Term                 investing in nationally
Tax-Free Income Fund              diversified municipal bonds with
                                  an average maturity of three to
                                  ten years.

Franklin Federal      10/7/83     Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund              investing in nationally
                                  diversified, investment quality municipal
                                  bonds.

Franklin High Yield   3/18/86     Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund              investing in nationally
                                  diversified, high yield, medium
                                  and lower rated municipal bonds.

Franklin Insured      4/1/85      Seeks federal tax-free income by
Tax-Free Income Fund              investing in nationally
                                  diversified, insured municipal
                                  bonds.

Franklin Puerto Rico  8/3/85      Seeks to provide a maximum level
Tax-Free Income Fund              of income exempt from federal
                                  income tax and the personal
                                  income taxes of the majority of
                                  the states by investing in
                                  municipal securities. For U.S.
                                  citizens and residents.

State Tax-Free Funds

The Company manages insured state tax-free funds  established  from 1985 to 1996
in  the  states  of  Arizona,  California,  Florida,  Massachusetts,   Michigan,
Minnesota,  New York and Ohio whose  principal  investments and strategy are the
purchase of insured  municipal  bonds  exempt from federal and  specified  state
personal  income  taxes  providing  an  investment  vehicle for double tax-free
income from long-term municipal securities.  In addition, the Company manages 26
non-insured  state tax-free income funds established from 1977 to 1996 providing
double  tax-free income from long-term  municipal  securities to residents of 21
states.


(iv)  Franklin Funds Seeking Growth and Income

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Franklin Asset        12/5/51     Seeks total return by investing
Allocation Fund                   in common stocks, investment
                                  grade corporate and U.S.
                                  government bonds, short-term
                                  money market instruments,
                                  securities of foreign issuers
                                  and real estate securities.
Franklin Balance      4/2/90      Seeks high total return by
Sheet Investment Fund             investing in common and
                                  preferred stocks,  secured or unsecured bonds,
                                  and  commercial  paper or  notes,  which  have
                                  per-share current market values believed to be
                                  below their net asset or book values.

Franklin Convertible  4/15/87     Seeks to maximize total return
Securities Fund                   by investing in convertible
                                  bonds and convertible preferred
                                  stock.

Franklin Equity       3/15/88     Seeks capital appreciation and
Income Fund                       high current dividend income by
                                  investing in high yielding
                                  common stocks for greater price
                                  stability.

Franklin Global       7/2/92      Seeks total return by investing
Utilities Fund                    in equity and debt securities
                                  issued by foreign and domestic
                                  utilities companies.

Franklin MicroCap     12/12/95    Seeks high total return by
Value Fund                        investing primarily in
                                  securities of companies with market
                                  capitalization under $100 million at the time
                                  of purchase and which are believed to be
                                  undervalued in the marketplace.

Franklin Natural      6/5/95      Seeks high total return by
Resources Fund                    investing primarily in stocks of
                                  companies that own, produce,
                                  refine, process and market
                                  natural resources.

Franklin Rising       4/2/90      Seeks capital appreciation by
Dividends Fund                    investing in stocks with
                                  consistent, substantial dividend
                                  increases for capital growth.

Franklin Strategic    5/24/94     Seeks high current income and
Income Fund                       capital appreciation, by
                                  investing in domestic and
                                  foreign fixed-income securities.

Franklin Value Fund  3/11/96      Seeks total return by
                                  investing  in equity and debt securities of
                                  undervalued companies worldwide.

Income Series (a      3/31/48     Seeks to maximize income by
series of Franklin                investing in a diversified
Custodian Funds,                  portfolio of high yielding lower
Inc.)                             rated corporate bonds, preferred
                                  stocks and dividend paying
                                  common stocks.

Utilities Series (a   9/30/48     Seeks capital appreciation and
series of Franklin                current income by investing in
Custodian Funds,                  utility companies located in
Inc.)                             high growth areas.

(v)  Franklin Funds Seeking Capital Growth

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


DynaTech Series (a    1/1/68      Seeks capital appreciation by
series of Franklin                investing in the volatile stocks
Custodian Funds,                  of companies engaged in dramatic
Inc.)                             break-through areas such as
                                  medicine, telecommunications and
                                  electronics or who have
                                  proprietary advantages in their
                                  field.

Franklin Blue Chip    5/28/96     Seeks capital appreciation by
Fund                              investing in securities of
                                  well-established,large capitalization
                                  companies ("blue chip companies") with a long
                                  record of revenue growth and profitability.

Franklin California   10/30/91    Seeks capital appreciation by
Growth Fund                       investing primarily in growth
                                  stocks or securities of
                                  companies headquartered in or
                                  conducting a majority of
                                  operations in California.

Franklin Equity Fund  1/1/33      Seeks capital appreciation
                                  and current income by investing primarily in
                                  common stocks of seasoned companies with low
                                  prices in relation to earnings growth.

Franklin Global       2/14/92     Seeks capital appreciation by
Health Care Fund                  investing primarily in equity
                                  securities of health care companies  worldwide
                                  with potential for above average growth.

Franklin Gold Fund   5/19/69      Seeks capital appreciation
                                  and current income by investing in securities
                                  of companies engaged in mining, processing or
                                  dealing in gold or other precious metals.

Franklin MidCap       6/1/96      Seeks long-term capital growth
Growth Fund                       by investing in equity
                                  securities of medium
                                  capitalization companies
                                  believed to be positioned for
                                  rapid growth.

Franklin Real Estate  1/3/94      Seeks to maximize total return
Securities Fund                   by investing primarily in the
                                  equity securities of companies
                                  operating in the real estate
                                  industry.

Franklin Small Cap    2/14/92     Seeks long-term capital growth
Growth Fund                       by investing primarily in equity
                                  securities of small
                                  capitalization growth companies.

Growth Series (a      3/31/48     Seeks capital appreciation by
series of the                     investing in well-known
Franklin Custodian                companies with demonstrated
Funds, Inc.)                      growth characteristics.

(vi) Franklin Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

Franklin Valuemark Funds is an open-end management investment company currently
consisting of twenty-three (23) separate series or portfolios which offer a wide
range of investment objectives, strategies, and risks. Shares are currently sold
only to separate accounts of the Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America
and its affiliates to fund the benefits under variable life insurance policies
and variable annuity contracts. Products presently offered include two flexible
premium deferred variable annuities ("Valuemark II" in New York and "Valuemark
III" in all other states), an immediate variable annuity ("Valuemark Income
Plus"), single premium variable life insurance ("Franklin Valuemark Life"), and
flexible premium variable life insurance ("ValueLife"). The portfolios are
managed by Advisers, Franklin Advisory Services, Inc., Franklin Mutual Advisers,
Inc., TICI, TGAL, and Templeton Singapore. The investment objectives and
policies of most of the portfolios are similar to those of corresponding
Franklin and Templeton funds, although differences in portfolio size,
investments held, and insurance and expense related differences will cause the
performance of the Valuemark portfolio to differ.



(vii)  Franklin Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Franklin              10/24/89    Seeks high current income by
Multi-Income Trust                investing primarily in high
(listed on the NYSE)              yielding, fixed-income corporate
                                  securities as well as
                                  dividend-paying stocks of
                                  companies engaged in the public
                                  utilities industry.

Franklin Universal    9/23/88     Seeks high current income by
Trust (listed on the              investing in fixed-income debt
NYSE)                             securities and dividend paying
                                  stocks and securities of
                                  precious metals and natural
                                  resources companies.

Principal  Maturity  1/19/89      Seeks to return  investors' original
Trust (listed on the              capital  of $10 per share on or before May 31,
New York Stock Exchange           2001, while providing high monthly
("NYSE")                          income by investing in mortgage-backed
                                  securities, zero coupon securities and high
                                  income producing debt securities.


(viii)   Franklin Funds for Institutional Investors

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Adjustable Rate       11/5/91     Seeks high current income by
Securities Portfolio              investing
(sold only to other               in mortgage-backed securities
investment companies)             (ARMS).

Franklin Cash         7/1/94      Seeks high current income by
Reserves Fund                     investing
                                  in domestic and foreign
                                  short-term securities.

Franklin              1/2/92      Seeks high current income by
Institutional                     investing
Adjustable Rate                   in a portfolio of
Securities Fund                   mortgage-backed securities,
                                  pooled adjustable rate mortgage
                                  securities.

Franklin              11/1/91     Seeks high current income and
Institutional                     increased price stability by
Adjustable U.S.                   investing
Government                        in a portfolio of adjustable
Securities Fund                   U.S. government or guaranteed
                                  agency mortgage-backed securities, (ARMS
                                  created by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie
                                  Mac).

Franklin Strategic    2/1/93      Seeks a high level of total
Mortgage Portfolio                return by investing primarily in
                                  mortgage-backed  securities,  pooled mortgages
                                  issued or guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae
                                  or Freddie Mac.

Franklin U. S.        2/8/94      Seeks high current income
Government Agency                 consistent with capital
Money Market Fund                 preservation and liquidity by
                                  investing in short-term
                                  instruments backed by U.S.
                                  government securities.

Franklin U.S.         1/19/88     Seeks high current income
Government                        consistent with capital
Securities Money                  preservation and liquidity by
Market Portfolio                  investing in short-term
                                  instruments backed by U.S.
                                  government securities.


Franklin U.S.         8/20/91     Seeks high current income
Treasury Money                    consistent with capital
Market Portfolio                  preservation and liquidity by
                                  investing in short-term U.S.
                                  Treasury obligations.

Money Market          7/17/85     Seeks high current income
Portfolio                         consistent with capital
                                  preservation and liquidity by
                                  investing all of its assets in
                                  money market instruments.

The Money Market      7/28/92     Seeks high current income
Portfolio (sold only              consistent with capital
to other investment               preservation and liquidity by
companies)                        investing all of its assets in
                                  money market instruments.

The U.S.Government   7/28/92     Seeks  high  current  income
Securities Money                 consistent  with capital
Market  Portfolio                preservation  and liquidity by (sold
                                 only to other investing in short-term
                                 investment companies) instruments backed
                                 by U.S. government securities.

U.S. Government       5/20/91    Seeks high current income and
Adjustable Rate                  increased price stability by
Mortgage Portfolio               investing
(sold only to other              in mortgage-backed securities,
investment companies)            (ARMS created by Ginnie Mae,
                                 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac).


(ix)  Franklin Templeton International Currency Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Franklin Templeton     6/30/86    Seeks to maximize total return,
Global Currency Fund              by investing in interest-earning
                                  money market instruments  denominated in three
                                  or more of 16 major world currencies.

Franklin Templeton     11/17/89   Seeks to protect against U.S.
Hard Currency Fund                dollar depreciation by investing
                                  in  high-quality   money  market   instruments
                                  denominated in three or more of the five major
                                  currencies of lowest  inflation  countries and
                                  the Swiss Franc.

Franklin Templeton     11/17/89   Seeks current income higher than
High Income Currency              that of U.S. dollar money market
Fund                              instruments by investing in
                                  interest-bearing money market
                                  instruments denominated in Major
                                  and Non-Major Currencies.


(x)  Templeton Funds Seeking Preservation of Capital and Income

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton Money Fund  10/2/87     Seeks current income, stability
                                  of principal and liquidity by
                                  investing in high quality money
                                  market instruments with
                                  maturities not exceeding 397
                                  days, consisting primarily of
                                  short-term U.S. Government
                                  Securities, bank certificates of
                                  deposit, time deposits, bankers'
                                  acceptances, commercial paper
                                  and repurchase agreements.


(xi)  Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth from Global Portfolios

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Franklin Templeton    7/28/94     Seeks long-term capital growth
Japan Fund                        by investing primarily in the
                                  equity securities of companies
                                  domiciled in Japan and traded in
                                  Japanese securities markets.

Templeton Developing  10/17/91    Seeks long-term capital
Markets Trust                     appreciation by investing
                                  primarily in equity securities
                                  of issuers in countries with
                                  developing markets.

Templeton Foreign     10/5/82     Seeks long-term capital growth
Fund                              by investing in stocks and debt
                                  obligations of companies and
                                  governments outside the U.S.

Templeton Foreign     9/20/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Smaller Companies                 by investing in a diverse
Fund                              portfolio of equity securities
                                  that trade on markets in
                                  countries other than the U.S.

Templeton Global      3/14/94     Seeks long-term capital growth
Infrastructure Fund               by investing in securities of
                                  domestic  and  foreign   companies   that  are
                                  principally  engaged  in  or  related  to  the
                                  development,  operation or  rehabilitation  of
                                  the  physical  and social  infrastructures  of
                                  various nations throughout the world.

Templeton Global      2/28/90     Seeks long-term capital growth
Opportunities Trust               by investing in securities
                                  issued by companies and
                                  governments of any nation.

Templeton Greater     5/8/95      Seeks long-term capital
European Fund                     appreciation by investing
                                  primarily in equity securities
                                  of companies Western, Central
                                  and Eastern Europe and in
                                  Russia.

Templeton Growth Fund 11/29/54    Seeks  long-term  capital
                                  growth by investing in stocks and bonds issued
                                  by companies and governments of any nation.

Templeton Latin       5/8/95      Seeks long-term capital
America Fund                      appreciation by investing
                                  primarily in equity securities
                                  and debt obligations of issuers
                                  in Latin American countries.

Templeton Pacific     9/20/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Growth Fund                       by investing primarily in equity
                                  securities that trade on markets
                                  in the Pacific Rim.

Templeton Global      9/18/89     Seeks long-term capital growth
Real Estate Fund                  by investing in securities of
                                  domestic and foreign companies
                                  engaged in or related to the
                                  real estate industry..

Templeton Global      6/1/81      Seeks long-term capital growth
Smaller Companies                 by investing in common and
Fund, Inc.                        preferred stocks, rights and
                                  warrants of companies of various
                                  nations throughout the world.

Templeton World Fund 1/17/78      Seeks long-term capital growth  by investing
                                  in  stocks and debt obligations of foreign 
                                  and domestic companies.


(xii)  Templeton Funds Seeking Capital Growth From Domestic
      Portfolios

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton American    3/27/91     Seeks long-term total return by
Trust                             investing no less than 65% of
                                  assets in stocks and debt
                                  obligations of U.S. companies
                                  and the U.S. government.


(xiii)  Templeton Funds Seeking High Current Income from Global
       Portfolios

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton Americas    6/27/94     Seeks high current income, with
Government                        total return as a secondary
Securities Fund                   objective, by investing
                                  primarily in debt securities issued  or
                                  guaranteed  by governments, government
                                  agencies, political  subdivisions,  and other
                                  government entities of countries  located in
                                  North, South  and  Central  America  and  the
                                  surrounding waters.

Templeton Income Fund 9/24/86     Seeks current income by
                                  investing primarily in debt
                                  securities, preferred stock,
                                  common stocks which pay
                                  dividends and income producing
                                  securities convertible into
                                  common stock of companies,
                                  governments and government
                                  agencies of various nations
                                  throughout the world.


(xiv)  Templeton Funds Seeking High Total Return from Global
Portfolios

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton  Growth and 3/14/94     Seeks high total return by 
Income Fund                       investing primarily in equity
(formerly Templeton               and debt securities of domestic
Global Rising                     and foreign companies.
Dividends Fund)


(xv)  Templeton Funds for Tax-Deferred Investments

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Templeton Asset       8/31/88     Seeks a high level of total
Allocation Fund                   return by investing in stocks of
                                  companies in any nation,  debt  obligations of
                                  companies and  governments of any nation,  and
                                  in money market instruments.

Templeton Bond Fund   8/31/88     Seeks high current income by
                                  investing primarily in debt
                                  securities of companies,
                                  governments and government
                                  agencies of various nations
                                  throughout the world, and in
                                  debt securities which are
                                  convertible into common stock of
                                  such companies.

Templeton             5/1/92      Seeks long-term capital growth
International Fund                by investing in stocks and debt
                                  obligations of companies and
                                  governments outside the United
                                  States.

Templeton Money       8/31/88     Seeks current income, stability
Market Fund                       of principal and liquidity by
                                  investing  in money  market  instruments  with
                                  maturities not exceeding 397 days,  consisting
                                  primarily of short-term  U.S. Government
                                  securities, certificates of deposit, time
                                  deposits,  bankers' acceptances, commercial
                                  paper and repurchase agreements.

Templeton Stock Fund  8/31/88     Seeks  capital  growth by
                                  investing primarily in common stocks issued by
                                  companies, large and small, in various nations
                                  throughout the world.

Templeton Variable    2/16/88     Seeks long-term capital growth
Annuity Fund                      by investing primarily in stocks
                                  and debt obligations of
                                  companies and governments of any
                                  nation, including the United
                                  States.


(xvi)  Templeton Contractual Plans

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton Capital     3/1/91      Seeks long-term capital growth
Accumulator Fund,                 by investing in stocks and debt
Inc.                              obligations of companies and
                                  governments of any nation.


(xvii)  Templeton SICAV Funds

Templeton Global Strategy SICAV)

Equity Funds (denominated in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise noted)

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton             4/26/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Deutschemark Global               by investing mainly in shares of
Growth Fund                       companies of any size found in
                                  any nation (denominated in
                                  Deutschemarks).

Templeton Emerging    2/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Markets Fund                      by investing in the shares and
                                  debt obligations of corporations
                                  and governments of developing or
                                  emerging nations.

Templeton European    4/17/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Fund                              by investing mainly in shares of
                                  companies of all sizes based in
                                  European countries (denominated
                                  in Swiss francs).

Templeton Far East    6/30/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Fund                              by investing mainly in shares of
                                  companies  of all sizes  which are based in or
                                  which derive significant  profits from the Far
                                  East.

Templeton Global      2/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
Growth Fund                       by investing primarily in the
                                  shares of companies of any size
                                  found in any nation.

Templeton Pan         2/28/91     Seeks long-term capital growth
American Fund                     by investing primarily in shares
                                  of companies of all sizes based
                                  in the North or South American
                                  continents.

Templeton Smaller     7/8/91      Seeks long-term capital growth
Companies Fund                    by investing primarily in shares
                                  of companies with a market capitalization of
                                  less than $1 billion found in any nation.


Fixed Income Funds (denominated in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise
noted)

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton             2/28/91     Seeks to maximize total
Deutschemark Global               investment return by investing
Bond Fund                         in a wide variety of
                                  fixed-interest  securities,  including  those
                                  issued  by supranational  bodies  such as The
                                  World Bank (denominated in Deutschemarks).

Templeton Emerging    7/5/91      Seeks to maximize total
Markets Fixed Income              investment return by investing
Fund                              primarily in dollar and
                                  non-dollar denominated debt
                                  obligations of emerging markets.

Templeton Global      2/28/91     Seeks to maximize current income
Income Fund                       by investing primarily in
                                  fixed-interest securities of
                                  governments and companies
                                  worldwide.

Templeton Haven Fund   7/8/91     Seeks to maintain a stable
                                  share price by investing in short-term high
                                  quality transferable debt
                                  securities (denominated in Swiss francs).

Templeton US          2/28/91     Seeks security of capital and
Government Fund                   income by investing in bonds
                                  issued by the U.S. government
                                  and its agencies.


Templeton Worldwide Investments SICAV


Growth Portfolio     8/21/89      Seeks  long  term  capital
                                  growth by investing in all types of securities
                                  issued  by  companies  or  governments  of any
                                  nation.

Income Portfolio     8/21/89      Seeks high current  income
                                  and  relative  stability of net asset value by
                                  investing  in high quality money market
                                  instruments and debt securities with remaining
                                  maturities in excess of two years.


(xviii)  Templeton Canadian Funds

Non-Institutional
Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Templeton Balanced    04/07/83    Seeks long-term capital
Fund                              appreciation by investing
                                  primarily in a combination of Canadian  common
                                  and preferred  shares,  bonds, and debentures;
                                  managed    to    comply    with    eligibility
                                  requirements   under  Canadian  law  regarding
                                  retirement and other tax deferred plans.

Templeton Canadian    9/14/94     Seeks high level of total return
Asset Allocation Fund             by investing primarily in
                                  Canadian   shares,    debt   obligations   and
                                  short-term instruments; managed to comply with
                                  eligibility  requirements  under  Canadian law
                                  regarding  retirement  and other  tax-deferred
                                  plans.

Templeton Canadian    01/02/90    Seeks high current income and
Bond Fund                         capital appreciation by
                                  investing  primarily  in publicly  traded debt
                                  securities  issued or  guaranteed  by Canadian
                                  governments  or their  agencies,  or issued by
                                  Canadian municipalities or corporations.

Templeton Canadian    01/03/89    Seeks capital appreciation by
Stock Fund                        investing in a diversified
                                  portfolio   of  Canadian   equity   securities
                                  primarily  managed to comply with  eligibility
                                  requirements  of the  Canadian  law  regarding
                                  retirement and other tax deferred plans.

Templeton Emerging    09/20/91    Seeks long-term capital
Markets Fund                      appreciation by investing
                                  primarily in emerging country
                                  equity securities.

Templeton Global      9/14/94     Seeks high level of total return
Balanced Fund                     by investing in shares, debt
                                  obligations and short-term
                                  instruments of companies and
                                  governments of any nation,
                                  including Canada and the United
                                  States.

Templeton Global      06/07/88    Seeks high current income by
Bond Fund                         investing primarily in a
                                  portfolio of fixed income
                                  securities of issuers throughout
                                  the world.

Templeton Global      01/03/89    Seeks capital appreciation by
Smaller Companies                 investing primarily in equity
Fund                              securities of emerging growth
                                  companies throughout the world.

Templeton Growth      09/01/54    Seeks long-term capital growth
Fund, Ltd.                        by investing in stock and debt
                                  obligations of companies and
                                  governments of any nation.

Templeton             9/14/94     Seeks high level of total return
International                     by investing in shares, debt
Balanced Fund                     obligations and short-term
                                  instruments of companies and
                                  governments of any nation other
                                  than Canada and the United
                                  States.

Templeton             01/03/89    Seeks long-term total return by
International Stock               investing in shares and debt
Fund                              obligations of companies and
                                  governments outside of Canada
                                  and the United States.

Templeton Treasury    02/29/88    Seeks a high level of current
Bill Fund                         income consistent with
                                  preservation   of  capital  and  liquidity  by
                                  investing  in  Canadian  government  or agency
                                  debt  obligations and high quality  short-term
                                  money market instruments.


Funds for
Institutional
Investors

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Templeton Global      07/06/90    Seeks long-term capital
Equity Trust                      appreciation by investing in
(non-taxable)                     stocks and bonds issued by
                                  companies and governments of any
                                  nation.

Templeton             07/06/90    Seeks long-term capital
International Equity              appreciation by investing in
Trust(non-taxable)                stocks and bonds issued by
                                  companies and governments
                                  outside of Canada and the United
                                  States.

Templeton             07/06/90    Seeks long-term total return by
International Stock               investing in stocks and bonds
Trust (taxable)                   issued by companies and
                                  governments outside of Canada
                                  and the United States.

Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Templeton Emerging    6/21/94     Seeks long-term capital
Markets Appreciation              appreciation, by investing in
Fund (listed on                   equity securities and debt
Toronto Stock                     obligations of issuers in
Exchange and                      emerging market countries.
Montreal Stock
Exchange)


(xix)  Templeton Closed-End Funds

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton China       9/9/93      Seeks long-term capital
World Fund, Inc.                  appreciation, by investing
(listed on the NYSE)              primarily in equity securities
                                  of  companies  organized  under the laws of or
                                  with  a  principal   office  in  the  People's
                                  Republic of China ("PRC"), Hong Kong or Taiwan
                                  collectively  "Greater  China",  for which the
                                  principal  trading market is in Greater China,
                                  and  which   derive  at  least  50%  of  their
                                  revenues   from  goods  or  services  sold  or
                                  produced  in,  or have at  least  50% of their
                                  assets in, the PRC.

Templeton Dragon      9/21/94     Seeks      long-term      capital
Fund, Inc. (Listed                appreciation   by   investing  at
on NYSE and Osaka                 least 45% of its total  assets in
Securities Exchange)              the    equity    securities    of
                                  companies (i) organized  under the laws of, or
                                  with  a  principal  office  in,  the  People's
                                  Republic  of  China  or  Hong  Kong,   or  the
                                  principal  business  activities  of which  are
                                  conducted  in China or Hong  Kong or for which
                                  the principal equity securities trading market
                                  is in China or Hong Kong, and (ii) that derive
                                  at least 50% of their  revenues  from goods or
                                  services  sold or  produced,  or have at least
                                  50% of their assets in China or Hong Kong.

Templeton Emerging    4/29/94     Seeks  capital   appreciation  by
Markets Appreciation              investing  substantially  all  of
Fund, Inc. (Listed                its  assets  in  a  portfolio  of
on NYSE)                          equity    securities   and   debt
                                  obligations    of    issuers   in
                                  emerging market countries.

Templeton Emerging    2/26/87     Seeks long-term capital
Markets Fund, Inc.                appreciation by investing
(listed on the NYSE               primarily in emerging markets
and Pacific Stock                 equity securities.
Exchange "PSE")

Templeton Emerging    9/23/93     Seeks high current income, with
Markets Income Fund,              a secondary investment objective
Inc. (listed on the               of capital appreciation, by
NYSE)                             investing primarily in a
                                  portfolio of high yielding debt obligations of
                                  sovereign  or  sovereign-related  entities and
                                  private  sector  companies in emerging  market
                                  countries.

Templeton Global      11/22/88    Seeks high current income
Governments Income                consistent with the preservation
Trust (listed on the              of capital achieved by investing
NYSE)                             at least 65% of its total assets
                                  in debt  securities  issued or  guaranteed  by
                                  governments, government agencies supranational
                                  entities,  political  subdivisions and other
                                  government entities of various nations
                                  throughout the world.

Templeton Global      3/17/88     Seeks high current income, with
Income Fund, Inc.                 a secondary investment objective
(listed on the NYSE               of capital appreciation, by
and PSE)                          investing primarily in a
                                  portfolio of fixed-income
                                  securities (including debt
                                  securities and preferred stock)
                                  of U.S. and foreign issuers.

Templeton Global      5/23/90     Seeks high level of total return
Utilities, Inc.                   (income plus capital
(listed on the AMEX               appreciation),without undue
and the Midwest                   risk, by investing at least 65%
Stock Exchange)                   of its total assets in equity
                                  and debt securities issued by
                                  domestic and foreign companies
                                  in the utility industries.

Templeton Russia      6/15/95     Seeks long-term capital
Fund, Inc. (Listed                appreciation by investing
on NYSE)                          primarily in equity securities
                                  of Russian Companies.

Templeton Vietnam     9/15/94     Seeks long-term capital
Opportunities Fund,               appreciation by investing in the
Inc.  (Listed on                  equity securities of Vietnam
NYSE)                             Companies.


(xx)  Templeton Funds for Institutional Investors

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy


Templeton Emerging    5/3/93      Seeks long-term capital growth
Markets Series                    by investing in securities of
                                  issuers of countries having
                                  emerging markets.

Templeton Foreign     10/18/90    Seeks long-term capital growth
Equity Series                     by investing in stocks and debt
                                  obligations of companies and
                                  governments outside the United
                                  States.

Templeton Foreign     5/3/93      Seeks long-term capital growth
Equity (South Africa              by investing in stocks and debt
Free) Series                      obligations of companies and
                                  governments outside both the
                                  U.S. and South Africa.

Templeton Growth      5/3/93      Seeks long-term capital growth
Series                            by investing in stocks and debt
                                  obligations of companies and
                                  governments of any nation.


(xxi)  Representative Templeton International Portfolios

Name of Fund          Inception   Principal
                      Date        Investments/Strategy

Asian Development     01/22/88    Seeks to maximize overall
Equity Fund                       long-term return by investing,
                                  directly or indirectly, primarily in shares,
                                  convertible bonds, warrants, and other equity
                                  related securities of entities in the Asian
                                  developing countries.

Templeton Asia Fund   11/14/89    Seeks to achieve long-term
                                  capital appreciation by
                                  investing primarily in equity
                                  securities of entities which
                                  either are listed on recognized
                                  exchanges in capital markets of
                                  the Asia/Oceania Region or which
                                  have their area of primary
                                  activity in those same capital
                                  markets.

Templeton Emerging    06/24/93    Seeks to achieve long-term
Asia Fund                         capital appreciation by
                                  investing primarily in equity securities of
                                  companies which  are either listed on
                                  recognized exchanges in capital  markets in
                                  emerging Asian countries or companies which
                                  have their primary activity in those same
                                  capital markets.

Templeton Emerging    06/19/89    Seeks long term capital
Markets Investment                appreciation by investing in
Trust Plc.                        companies operating or trading
                                  in emerging market countries.
                                  (Closed End)

Templeton Global      08/29/88    Seeks to provide income by
Balanced Trust                    investing in an internationally
                                  diversified portfolio of
                                  equities, fixed interest, and
                                  convertible stocks.  (Unit Trust)

Templeton Global      08/29/88    Seeks to maximize total
Growth Trust                      investment return by investing
                                  in an internationally
                                  diversified portfolio of equity
                                  shares and convertible stocks.
                                  (Unit Trust)

Templeton Global      07/13/88    Seeks to achieve high current
Income Portfolio,                 income by investing primarily in
Ltd.                              a portfolio of fixed income
                                  securities (including debt
                                  securities and preferred stock)
                                  of issuers throughout the world.

Templeton Latin       5/3/94      Seeks long-term capital growth
America Investment                by investing in companies listed
Trust Plc.                        on stock exchanges in Latin
                                  America or that have substantial
                                  trading interests in that
                                  region. (Closed End)

Templeton Value Trust  06/08/89   Seeks maximum total
                                  investment return by investing in all
                                  geographic and economic sectors.

Templeton/National     04/06/93   Growth  Portfolio - Seeks long 
Bank of Greece                    term capital growth by investing 
Trans-European Fund               in stock and debt securities of
                                  companies and governments primarily located in
                                  the European  Economic Community.

                                  Income Portfolio  - Seeks high current income
                                  and relative stability of principal by
                                  investing in debt securities of companies and
                                  governments located primarily in the European
                                  Economic Community.


Recent Fund Introductions

The  funds  referenced  above  include  three (3) new  funds  introduced  by the
Franklin  Templeton  Group  during the fiscal  year ended  September  30,  1996:
Franklin Blue Chip Fund, Franklin MidCap Growth Fund and Franklin Value Fund.

(B)        FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on the Company's operations in various geographic areas of the world
and a breakout of business segment information is contained in Footnote 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. herein.

(C)        NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

                INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

The Company, through its various subsidiaries described above, provides
investment advisory, portfolio management, transfer agency, business management
agent and administrative services to the Franklin Templeton Group. Such services
are provided pursuant to agreements in effect with each of the U.S. registered
Franklin and Templeton open and closed-end investment companies. Comparable
agreements are in effect with foreign registered Funds and with other managed
accounts. The management agreements for the U.S. registered Franklin and
Templeton funds continue in effect for successive annual periods, providing such
continuance is specifically approved at least annually by a majority vote cast
in person at a meeting of such Funds' Boards of Trustees or Directors called for
that purpose, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the Funds'
outstanding voting securities, and in either event, by a majority of such Funds'
trustees or directors who are not parties to such agreement or interested
persons of the Funds or the Company within the meaning of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (the "40 Act"). Trustees and directors of Funds' boards are
hereinafter referred to as "directors". Foreign registered Funds have various
termination rights and provisions.

Each such agreement automatically terminates in the event of its "assignment"
(as defined in the 40 Act) and either party may terminate the agreement without
penalty after written notice ranging from 30 to 60 days. "Assignment" is defined
in the 40 Act as including any direct or indirect transfer of a controlling
block of voting stock. Control is defined as the power to exercise a controlling
influence over the management or policies of a company.

If there were to be a termination of a significant number of the management
agreements between the Franklin and Templeton funds and the Company's
subsidiaries or with respect to a significant portion of the Other Assets, such
termination would have a material adverse impact upon the Company. To date, no
management agreements of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with any of the
Franklin and Templeton funds have been involuntarily terminated. Changes in the
customer base of institutional investors occur on a regular basis. Since the
Templeton Acquisition to date, assets under management in the category of Other
Assets set forth above have in the aggregate continued to grow.

As of September 30, 1996, substantially all of the shares of the various
directly and indirectly owned subsidiary companies were owned directly by the
Company or subsidiaries thereof, except for nominal numbers of shares with
respect to certain foreign entities required to be owned by nationals of such
countries in accordance with foreign law and certain other limited minority
ownership of and Franklin Bank. As of December 13, 1996, Charles B. Johnson,
Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and R. Martin Wiskemann beneficially owned approximately
19.2%, 15.3% and 9.4%, respectively, of the outstanding voting common stock of
the Company. Charles B. Johnson and his brother Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. serve on
the Board of Directors of the Company as well as on most of the Franklin funds'
boards and some of the Templeton funds' boards. Charles E. Johnson, the son of
Charles B. Johnson and the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. serves on the Board
of Directors of the Company and on some of the Franklin and Templeton funds'
boards.

Under the terms of the management agreements with the Franklin and Templeton
funds, the various subsidiary companies described above generally supervise and
implement such Funds' investment activities and provide the administrative
services and facilities which are necessary to the operation of such Funds'
business. Such subsidiary companies also conduct research and provide investment
advisory services and, subject to and in accordance with any directions such
Funds' boards may issue from time to time, such subsidiary companies determine
which securities such Funds will purchase, hold or sell. In addition, such
subsidiary companies take all steps necessary to implement such decisions,
including the selection of brokers and dealers to execute transactions for such
Funds, in accordance with detailed criteria set forth in the management
agreement for such Funds and applicable law and practice. Similar services are
rendered with respect to the Other Assets.

Generally, the Company or a subsidiary provides and pays the salaries of
personnel who serve as officers of the Franklin and Templeton funds, including
the President and such other administrative personnel as are necessary to
conduct such Funds' day-to-day business operations, including maintaining a
Fund's portfolio records, answering shareholder inquiries, providing
information, creating and publishing literature, compliance with securities
regulations, accounting systems and controls, preparation of annual reports and
other administrative activities.

The Funds generally pay their own expenses such as legal and auditing fees,
reporting and board and shareholder meeting costs, SEC and state registration
and similar expenses. Generally, the Funds pay advisory companies a fee payable
monthly based upon a Fund's net assets. Annual rates under the various
investment management agreements range from .15% to a maximum of 2.00% and are
generally reduced as average net assets exceed various threshold levels.

The investment management agreements permit advisory companies to act as an
advisor to more than one Fund so long as such companies' ability to render
services to each of such Funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and
sales appropriate for all such Funds are made on a proportionate or other
equitable basis. Management of the Company and the directors of the Funds
regularly review the Fund fee structures in light of Fund performance, the level
and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors.
Advisory fees are generally waived or voluntarily reduced when a new Fund is
first established and then increased to contractual levels with the growth in
net assets.

The investment advisory services provided by such advisory companies include
fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, encompassing original
country, industry and company research, company visits and inspections, and the
utilization of such sources as company public records and activities, management
interviews, company prepared information, and other publicly available
information, as well as analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. In
addition, research services provided by brokerage firms are used to support
other research. In this regard, some brokerage business from the Funds is
allocated in recognition of value-added research services received.

Fixed-income research includes economic analysis, credit analysis and value
analysis. The economic analysis function monitors and evaluates numerous factors
that influence the supply and demand for credit on a worldwide basis. Credit
analysts research the credit worthiness of debt issuers and their individual
short-term and long-term debt issues. Yield spread differential analysis reviews
the relative value of market sectors that represent buying and selling
opportunities.

Additional shareholder administrative services are provided by FTIS, which
receives administrative fees from the Funds for providing shareholder record
keeping services and for acting as transfer and dividend-paying agent for the
Funds. As of September 30, 1996, such compensation was based upon an annual fee
per shareholder account, ranging between $10.00 and $23.50, a pro-rated portion
of which was paid monthly.

DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING

Distributors acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of shares of the
Franklin and Templeton open-end funds. Pursuant to underwriting agreements with
the Funds, Distributors generally pays the expenses of distribution of Fund
shares. Although the Company does significant advertising and sales promotions
through media sources, Fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of
independent participating securities dealers. As of September 30, 1996,
approximately 3,674 local, regional and national securities brokerage firms
offered shares of the Franklin and Templeton funds for sale to the investing
public. The Company has approximately 55 "wholesalers" who interface with the
broker-dealer community. Fund shares are offered to individual investors,
qualified groups, trustees, IRA and profit sharing or money purchase plans,
employee benefit plans, trust companies, bank trust departments and
institutional investors. In addition, various management and advisory services,
commingled and pooled accounts, wrap fee arrangements and various other private
investment management services are offered to certain private and institutional
investors.

Broker-dealers are paid various fees for services in matching investors with
Funds whose investment objectives match such investors' goals. Broker-dealers
also assist in explaining the operations of the Funds, in servicing the account
and in various other distribution services.

Most of the Franklin and Templeton Funds have a multi-class share structure
whereby Class I shares are sold with a maximum front-end sales charge which
ranges from a low of 1.50% to a high of 5.75%. Reductions in the maximum sales
charges may be available depending upon the amount invested and the type of
investor. Class II shares, which were introduced during the 1995 fiscal year,
have a hybrid, level load structure combining aspects of conventional front-end,
back-end and level-load pricing. Class II shares are subject to an initial sales
charge of 1% and are generally subject to a 1% contingent deferred sales charge
on redemptions within 18 months of purchase and to higher on-going Rule 12b-1
fees described below. The multi-class structure was adopted to provide investors
greater payment alternatives in implementing their investment programs. The
Company's money market and institutional funds are sold to investors without a
sales charge.

Most of the U.S registered Templeton funds and most of the U.S. registered
Franklin funds, with the exception of certain Franklin and Templeton money
market funds, have also adopted distribution plans (the "Plans") under Rule
12b-1 promulgated under the 40 Act ("Rule 12b-1"). Class II shares generally
have higher on-going Rule 12b-1 fees. The Plans are established for an initial
term of one year and, thereafter, must be approved annually by the Fund boards
and by a majority of disinterested directors. All such Plans are subject to
termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested directors or by
the Funds' shareholders. The Plans permit the Funds to bear certain expenses
relating to the distribution of their shares.

Fees under the Plans for Class I shares range in amount from a low of .10% per
annum of average daily net assets to a high of .50% while Class II share fees
range between .65% to 1 %. The implementation of the Plans provided for a lower
fee on Class I shares acquired prior to the adoption of such Plans. Fees from
the Plans are paid primarily to third party dealers who provide service to their
shareholder accounts, as well as engage in distribution activities. Distributors
may also receive reimbursement from the Funds for expenses involved in
distributing the Funds, such as advertising and reimbursement for a 1% payment
to dealers on sales of Class II shares, subject to the Plans' limitations on
amounts.

The financial effects on the Company of the distribution of the new class of
shares is discussed in more detail under Item 7, "Management's Discussion of
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" (the "MD&A"), below.

As of September 30, 1996, there were approximately 5.4 million shareholder
accounts in the Franklin and Templeton Funds.


REVENUES

As shown in the table below, the Company's revenues are derived primarily from
its investment management activities. Total operating revenues are set forth in
the table below. Revenues from investment management fees have comprised
approximately 58%, 58% and 48% in 1996, 1995 and 1994 respectively, of total
operating revenue for each of the three fiscal years reported. Underwriting
commissions, from gross sales and reinvestments of products subject to
commissions contributed to revenues approximately 36%, 36% and 47% in 1996, 1995
and 1994 respectively. Shareholder servicing fees from mutual fund activities
contributed 6%, 5% and 4% in 1996, 1995 and 1994 respectively.

                                     OPERATING REVENUES
                                  YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,
                                       ($ IN MILLIONS)

                                           1996           1995           1994

Investment management fees                 $883.8         $731.3        $647.7

Underwriting and distribution fees          545.0          449.1         626.3

Shareholder servicing fees                   88.7           68.7          54.6

Banking/finance, net and other                5.0            8.7          13.9
                                         --------      ---------      --------
Totals                                   $1,522.6       $1,257.8      $1,342.5
                                         ========      =========      ========


OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Company's consumer lending, dealer auto loan and real estate businesses do
not as yet contribute significantly to either the revenues or the net income of
the Company. Franklin Bank's operations are limited by national banking laws and
no immediate significant increase in revenues is anticipated. The real estate
operations have incurred net losses since inception and the Company does not
anticipate any immediate improvement in this line of business. The Company's
dealer auto loan business has required the infusion of significant working
capital during the prior two fiscal years, either in the form of inter-company
loans or by contributions to the capital of FCC by the Company. During portions
of this period, the Company experienced an increase in delinquency rates in such
loans and, in response, expanded its auto loan collection efforts and tightened
its underwriting policies. Delinquency rates were reduced between fiscal 1995
and 1996. A more detailed financial analysis of the financial effects of loan
losses and delinquency rates, as well as the funding of this activity, is
contained in the MD&A.

REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

Virtually all aspects of the Company's businesses are subject to various
foreign, federal and state laws and regulations. As discussed above, the Company
and a number of its subsidiaries are registered with various foreign, federal
and state governmental agencies. Foreign, federal and state laws and regulations
grant such supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power
to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its business if it fails to
comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions
which may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations
on the Company's (or a subsidiary's) engaging in business for specified periods
of time, the revocation of the investment advisor or broker-dealer registrations
of subsidiaries and censures and fines.

The Company's officers, directors and employees may from time to time own
securities which are also held by the Funds. The Company's internal policies
with respect to individual investments require prior clearance and reporting of
transactions and restrict certain transactions so as to reduce the possibility
of conflicts of interest.

To the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of Fund
shares or other investment products or their investment strategies cause or
contribute to reduced sales of Fund shares or investment products or impair the
investment performance of the Funds or such other investment products, the
Company's aggregate assets under management and its revenues might be adversely
affected. Changes in regulations affecting free movement of international
currencies might also adversely affect the Company.

In 1993, the NASD received SEC approval for a new Rule of Fair Practice which
limits the amount of aggregate sales charges which may be paid in connection
with the purchase and holding of investment company shares sold through brokers.
The Rule provides that funds with an asset-based sales charge (most commonly
provided in Distribution Plans pursuant to SEC 40 Act Rule 12b-1) may impose no
more than 6.25% - 7.25% (depending upon whether or not the fund also pays
"service fees") in combined front-end, deferred sales charges and asset-based
sales charges. The effect of that Rule might be to limit the amount of fees that
could be paid pursuant to a fund's 12b-1 Plan in a situation where a fund has
no, or limited new sales for a prolonged period of time. In that event, it is
possible that a fund which was experiencing weak sales would have the situation
exacerbated by the fact that it would have to limit fees to brokers under its
12b-1 Plan, or reduce its up front sales charge. None of the Franklin or
Templeton funds are in, or close to, that situation at the present time.

COMPETITION

The financial services industry is highly competitive. In the United States,
there are over 6,100 mutual funds of varying sizes, investment policies and
objectives whose shares are being offered to the public. During the past three
fiscal years, assets under management in the mutual fund industry increased by
over $1.35 trillion, a 68.5% growth rate. Over this same time period, the
Company experienced an approximate approximately 1.13% decline in overall market
share. While the Company's assets and associated revenues still grew
substantially during this time period, substantial asset under management growth
occurred for other fund management companies whose asset bases were more heavily
oriented to domestic equities. Such growth was due to record domestic equity
market appreciation during this period as well as increased asset flows into
domestic equity products. The substantial returns available in the domestic
equity marketplace had a negative effect on sales of fixed-income products. The
combined effect of these two events were a significant factor in the Company's
market share decline. The Company believes that its strong fixed-income base
coupled with its strong global presence will serve its competitive needs well
over time. The Company continues its focus on service to customers, performance
on investments and extensive marketing activities with its strong broker-dealer
and other financial institution distribution network.

The Company advertises the Franklin Templeton Group in major national financial
publications, as well as on radio and television to promote name recognition and
to assist its distribution network. Such activities included purchasing network
and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, sponsorship of The
Nightly Business Report on public television and extensive newspaper and
magazine advertising.

Competition for sales of Fund shares is influenced by various factors, including
general securities market conditions, government regulations, global economic
conditions, portfolio performance, advertising and sales promotional efforts,
share distribution channels and the type and quality of dealer and shareholder
services. Many securities dealers, whose large retail distribution systems play
an important role in the sale of shares in the Franklin and Templeton funds,
also sponsor competing proprietary mutual funds. The Company believes that such
securities dealers value the ability to offer customers a broad selection of
investment alternatives and will continue to sell Franklin and Templeton funds,
notwithstanding the availability of proprietary products. However, to the extent
that these firms limit or restrict the sale of Franklin and Templeton funds
shares through their brokerage systems in favor of their proprietary mutual
funds, assets under management might decline and the Company's revenues might be
adversely affected.

Although the Company believes that it has substantially improved its competitive
position and has substantially benefited from the Templeton Acquisition and the
wide variety of global investment products now available to its customers, the
shift in asset mix from primarily a fixed-income base to a combination of
fixed-income and global equities has increased the possibility of volatility in
the Company's managed portfolios due to the increased percentage of equity
investments held.

Another element of competition among mutual funds is the rates at which fees and
sales charges are imposed. The Company believes that its investment management
and other fee structures are already relatively competitive and does not
presently anticipate significant competitive pressures for further reductions.
However, a number of mutual fund sponsors presently market their funds without
sales charges. As investor interest in the mutual fund industry has increased,
competitive pressures have increased on sales charges of broker-dealer
distributed funds. The Company believes that, although this trend will continue,
a significant portion of the investing public still relies on the services of
the broker-dealer community, particularly during weaker market conditions.
However, in response to competitive pressures or for other similar reasons, the
Company might be forced to lower or further adjust sales charges which are
currently substantially reallowed to broker-dealers. The reduction in such sales
charges could make the sale of shares of the Franklin and Templeton funds
somewhat less attractive to the broker-dealer community, which could in turn
have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues. The Company believes
that it is well positioned to deal with such changes in marketing trends as a
result of its already extensive advertising activities and broad based
marketplace recognition.

In addition to competition from other investment company managers and investment
advisors, the Company and the investment company industry are in competition
with the financial services and other investment alternatives offered by stock
brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and
loan associations and other financial institutions. Many of these competitors
have substantially greater resources than the Company. Although the banking
industry continues to expand its sponsorship of proprietary funds distributed
through third party distributors, the Company has and continues to actively
pursue sales relationships with banks and insurance companies to broaden its
distribution network in response to such competitive pressures. However, as with
proprietary products offered by the Company's broker-dealer network, to the
extent that banks limit or restrict the sale of Franklin and Templeton share
through their distribution systems in favor of their proprietary mutual funds,
assets under management might decline and the Company's revenues might be
adversely affected. In addition, competitive pressures have led to increased
demands for distribution costs for broker-dealer distributed funds, which could
have a negative impact on the Company's profit margins and net income.

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS

GENERAL

As discussed above, the Company's revenues are derived primarily from investment
management activities. Broadly speaking, the direction and amount of change in
the net assets of the Funds are dependent upon two factors: (1) the level of
sales of shares of the funds as compared to redemptions of shares of the funds;
and (2) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities owned by
the Funds. A significant portion of the Company's assets under management are
fixed-income securities. Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield curve
will have an effect on fixed-income assets under management as well as on the
flow of monies to and from fixed-income funds and, therefore, on the Company's
revenues from such funds. In addition, the impact of changes in the equity
marketplace may significantly affect assets under management. Management
believes, however, that diversity of the Franklin Templeton Group is more
competitive as a result of a greater diversity of product mix available to its
customers. Market values are affected by many things, including the general
condition of national and world economics and the direction and volume of
changes in interest rates and/or inflation rates. The effects of these factors
on equity funds and fixed-income funds often operate inversely and it is,
therefore, difficult to predict the net effect of any particular set of
conditions on the level of assets under management.

Although the Company and its assets under management are subject to political
and currency risks, due to its international activities, as is discussed in more
detail in the MD&A, its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency markets and
to fixed-asset value depreciation is limited.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

GENERAL

The Company owns or leases offices and facilities in nine (9) locations in the
immediate vicinity of its principal executive and administrative offices located
at 777 Mariners Island Boulevard, San Mateo, California. In addition, the
Company owns four (4) buildings near Sacramento, California, as well as two (2)
buildings in St. Petersburg, Florida, one (1) building in Phoenix, Arizona, one
(1) building in Nassau, Bahamas and a floor of a high rise office building in
Singapore. The Company also is currently in the process of constructing three
(3) new buildings in St. Petersburg, Florida and one (1) new building in Nassau,
Bahamas. The Company also leases facilities in various locations on a national
and worldwide basis. Since the Company is operated on a unified basis, corporate
activities, fund related activities, accounting operations, sales, real estate
and banking operations, auto loans and credit cards, management information
system activities, publishing and printing operations, shareholder service
operations and other business activities and operations take place in a variety
of such locations. The Company or its subsidiaries lease office space in
Florida, New York, and Utah and in several other states. In addition, the
Company or its subsidiaries lease office space in Argentina, Australia, Bermuda,
Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Poland,
Russia, Scotland, South Africa, and Vietnam. The Company is in the process of
leasing new office space in Hungary.

PROPERTY DESCRIPTION

LEASED

The Company leases properties at the locations set forth below:




OWNED

The Company maintains a customer service facility in the property that it owns
at 10600 White Rock Road, Rancho Cordova, California, near Sacramento,
California. The Company occupies 75,000 square feet in this property and has
leased out 46,000 square feet to a third party until February, 2000 at an
approximate monthly rental of $65,000. The Company owns an additional
twenty-seven acres of adjoining land on which it has constructed two office
buildings of approximately 67,000 square feet each and a data center/warehouse
facility of approximately 162,000 square feet. The Company plans to develop
additional facilities on this property, but has not yet commenced construction.
The Company also owns and occupies an office building with approximately 69,000
square feet of office space at 1800 Gateway Drive, San Mateo, California.

The Company owns two facilities in St. Petersburg, Florida: an approximately
90,000 square foot office building primarily devoted to shareholder servicing
activities; and an approximately 117,000 square foot facility devoted to a
computer data center and training and mailing operations. The Company has
purchased approximate twenty-eight acres of land in St. Petersburg on which it
has commenced construction of three office buildings of approximately 70,000
square feet each. The Company plans to develop additional facilities on this
property in the future. The Company also owns an approximately 14,000 square
foot office building in Nassau, Bahamas, as well as a nearby condominium
residence. The Company has commenced construction of a second office building,
adjacent to the existing office building, of approximately 25,000 square feet.
Completion of the building is expected by early 1997.

OTHER

The Company is the sole limited partner with a 60% partnership interest in
Mariner Partners, a California limited partnership formed in 1984 to develop,
operate and hold the property occupied by the Company at 777 Mariners Island
Boulevard. Mariner Partners obtained 30 year non-recourse financing for the
property from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company at an interest rate of 8-7/8%.
The principal balance outstanding as of September 30, 1996, was $25.6 million.
The loan was due in November, 1996. In December, 1996, Mariner Partners extended
the loan with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company until November, 2002. Interest
rate on the loan during the extension period is 8.10% per annum.

ITEM 3.   PENDING LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

There are no material pending legal proceedings which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries was a party, or of which any of their property is the subject; nor
are any such proceedings known to be contemplated by any governmental
authorities.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY OWNERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.


Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are brothers. Peter M. Sacerdote,
a director of the Company, is a brother-in-law of Charles B. Johnson and Rupert
H. Johnson, Jr. Charles E. Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson and the
nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote. Gregory E. Johnson is the
son of Charles B. Johnson, the nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter
Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer Bolt and Charles E. Johnson. Jennifer Bolt
is the daughter of Charles B. Johnson, the niece of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and
Peter Sacerdote, and the sister of Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E. Johnson.
Leslie M. Kratter is the spouse of Deborah R. Gatzek.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information About the Company`s Common Stock

The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and
the Pacific  Stock  Exchange  under the ticker  symbol BEN and the London  Stock
Exchange  under the ticker symbol FKR. On September 30, 1996,  the closing price
of the Company's  common stock on the NYSE was $66 3/8 per share. At December 2,
1996, there were approximately  2,000  shareholders of record. In addition,  the
Company  estimates that there are approximately  15,000 beneficial  shareholders
whose shares are held in street  name.  The high and low sales prices by quarter
for the 1996 and 1995 fiscal years,  as traded on the NYSE Composite  Tape, were
as follows:



The Company  declared  dividends of $0.44 per share in fiscal 1996 and $0.40 per
share in fiscal  1995.  The Company  expects to continue  paying  dividends on a
quarterly  basis to  common  stockholders  depending  upon  earnings  and  other
relevant factors.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

(in 000's, except Assets under Management and per share amounts )





*Reflects reclassification of underwriting and distribution expense.




ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

GENERAL

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. and its  majority-owned  subsidiaries (the "Company")
derives  substantially  all  of  its  revenue  and  net  income  from  providing
investment management, administration,  distribution and related services to the
Franklin Templeton funds,  institutional accounts and other investment products.
The Company's  revenues are derived  largely from the amount and  composition of
assets under its management.  The Company has a diversified base of assets under
management  and a full range of  investment  products  and  services to meet the
needs of most individuals and institutions.

During 1996,  assets under the Company's  management grew to $151.6 billion,  an
increase of $20.8 billion (16%) over September 30, 1995, as a result of both net
sales and market appreciation.

The Company  operates in five geographic  areas of the world: the United States,
Canada, the Bahamas, Europe and Asia/Pacific. At September 30, 1996, the Company
had offices in 17 countries.

The contributions to the Company's  operating  profits from non-U.S.  operations
increased  in 1996  principally  as a result of an increase in fee revenue  from
investment  management  services  provided by its foreign  subsidiaries.  In the
future, the contribution to operating revenue and operating profit from non-U.S.
operations  will be dependent upon the amount and  composition of assets managed
by the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Despite the Company's global presence,  its exposure to adverse  fluctuations in
foreign  currency  markets is limited because a material  portion of the foreign
subsidiaries'  revenues and the majority of their  monetary  assets are U.S. and
Canadian dollar denominated.  Furthermore,  custody of a material portion of the
foreign subsidiaries' monetary assets are held with U.S. financial institutions.
Approximately  98% of the Company's  operating  revenues were earned in U.S. and
Canadian  dollars in both 1996 and 1995. The Company has not deemed it necessary
to enter into foreign currency hedging transactions.

The Company  participates  in the  financial  derivatives  markets to manage its
exposure  to   interest-rate   fluctuations.   The  Company  has  entered   into
interest-rate   swap  agreements  to  convert   interest   payment   obligations
under-variable rate debt instruments to fixed-rate interest payment obligations.
(See Note 6 to the financial statements.)




Net income for 1996  increased 17% primarily due to a 21% increase in investment
management,  underwriting and  distribution  fee revenue  generated by increased
assets  under  management.  Operating  expenses  increased at a higher rate than
operating revenues during 1996,  resulting in a decline in the operating margin.
Underwriting and distribution expenses increased 32%, reflecting increased sales
of retail  mutual funds as well as overall  increases in costs  associated  with
distributing the Company's products.  Employment costs increased 25%, reflecting
the Company's commitment to reward excellent  performance of its employees.  Net
income  for 1995  increased  7%  primarily  as a  result  of a 13%  increase  in
investment management fee revenue.

Results of  operations  will  continue to be  dependent  upon  general  economic
growth, the strength of capital markets and the Company's ability to meet market
demands with  competitive  products and  services.  Operating  revenues  will be
specifically   dependent  upon  the  amount  and  composition  of  assets  under
management,  mutual fund  sales,  and the number of mutual  fund  investors  and
institutional  clients.  Operating  expenses are  expected to increase  with the
Company's  continued  expansion,  the increase in competition  and the Company's
continued  commitment to improving its products and  services.  These  endeavors
will likely result in an increase in selling  expenses,  employment  costs,  and
other general and administrative expenses.






Assets under the Company's management increased by $20.8 billion (16%) in fiscal
1996, $12.6 billion (11%) in fiscal 1995 and $10.7 billion (10%) in fiscal 1994,
respectively.

As shown in the previous table,  the composition of assets under  management has
changed over the past three years.  This  development  is a result of changes in
relative sales, redemptions and market value among the specific asset classes.

Fixed-income  funds  represented 42% of assets under management at September 30,
1996 as compared to 46% and 50% at  September  30, 1995 and 1994,  respectively.
This trend reflects investors' recent preference for equity/income funds and the
relatively higher level of market appreciation of those funds during the periods
under review.  Equity/income funds represented 44% of assets under management at
September  30, 1996,  as compared to 41% and 39% at September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.

Institutional    assets   under    management,    comprised   of   predominantly
global/international  equity  portfolios,  represented  14%,  13% and 11% of the
Company's  assets  under  management  at  September  30,  1996,  1995 and  1994,
respectively,  and is  consistent  with the  growth  rate  experienced  with the
Company's other equity products. The Company continues to expand the services it
provides in this area.

Operating Revenues

Investment management fees:

                                        For the years ended September 30,
In millions                                      1996         1995       1994
- ---------------------------                    --------    ---------  --------
Revenues                                         $883.8       $731.3     $647.7
12- month average assets
 under management                              $141,078     $121,666   $115,443


The Company's  revenues from investment  management  fees are derived  primarily
from contractual fixed-fee  arrangements that are based upon the level of assets
under management with open-end and closed-end  investment  companies and managed
accounts. Under the various investment management agreements,  annual rates vary
and generally decline as the average net assets of the portfolios exceed certain
threshold levels.  Investment management services provided to Franklin Templeton
funds  are   reviewed   and   approved   annually  by  each   fund's   Board  of
Directors/Trustees.  There have been no  significant  changes in the  investment
management fee structures for the Franklin  Templeton funds in the periods under
review.

Investment  management  fees for 1996 increased  $152.5 million (21%) over 1995,
which increased $83.6 million (13%) over 1994.  Management fees grew at a faster
rate than average  assets under  management in both 1996 and 1995.  This was the
result of a shift in composition  of average  assets under  management to higher
fee equity and income funds during the years under consideration.

Underwriting and distribution fees:

                                    For the years ended September 30,
In millions                                        1996       1995       1994
Revenues                                          $545.0     $449.1     $626.3
Gross fund sales of products
 subject to commissions                          $23,018    $15,458    $22,460


Revenues from  underwriting  commissions  are earned  primarily from fund sales.
Most sales of Franklin  Templeton funds include a sales  commission,  of which a
significant portion is reallowed to selling intermediaries. Certain subsidiaries
of the Company act as  distributors  for its sponsored  mutual funds and receive
distribution  fees,  including 12b-1 fees, from those funds in reimbursement for
distribution  expenses incurred.  A significant portion of distribution fees are
reallowed to selling  intermediaries.  Distribution  fees are generally based on
the level of assets under management.

Underwriting  and  distribution  fees  increased  21%  in  1996  largely  due to
increased  retail mutual fund sales partially  offset by a decrease in effective
commission  rates.  Effective  commission  rates  declined as relative  sales of
products  with  lower  commission  rates  such as Class II  shares  and  annuity
products  increased.  Underwriting and distribution  fees for 1995 decreased 28%
due to lower  retail  mutual  fund  sales and  changes  made to fund  commission
structures.



Shareholder servicing fees:

                                   For the years ended September 30,
In millions                               1996             1995         1994
- -----------------------------            --------         --------     --------
Revenues                                 $88.7            $68.7        $54.6
Number of accounts                         5.4              4.7          4.4


Shareholder  servicing  fees are generally  fixed charges per account which vary
with the particular type of fund and the service being rendered.

Shareholder servicing fees for 1996 increased $20.0 million (29%). This increase
was in part the result of a 15%  increase in retail fund  shareholder  accounts.
Also,  effective July 1, 1995,  approximately  85 of the Company's  U.S.  mutual
funds consisting of approximately 2.5 million shareholder  accounts  implemented
an average annual increase of $4 per shareholder account.

Shareholder  servicing fees for 1995 increased $14.1 million (26%). The increase
was due to an  increase  in retail  shareholder  accounts  and the fee  increase
described above.




Banking/finance,  net and  other  decreased  43% in 1996  as  compared  to a 37%
decrease in 1995. 1996 revenues and related interest expense  decreased in large
part due to a 23% reduction in the net loan receivable  balance as the Company's
more stringent  underwriting  policies have resulted in a decrease in the number
of new loans written. The provision for loan losses has decreased in 1996 due to
a  reduction  in  delinquency  rates,  with  4.0% past due at the end of 1996 as
compared to 5.3% at the end of 1995.  Actual  charge-offs  have increased 24% in
1996  as  the  Company   has   aggressively   written  off   accounts  it  deems
uncollectible.

The Company  substantially  increased its auto loan portfolio during fiscal year
1994 as it expanded this business activity. Because a substantial portion of the
portfolio  was new,  the  impact of  delinquency  and loss  trends was not fully
reflected in the financial  performance  of the Company  until fiscal 1995.  The
decrease  in  banking/finance,  net and  other in 1995 was due  primarily  to an
increase in the provision for loan losses and interest  expense  attributable to
the banking/finance group.

Commencing in 1994, a portion of the  banking/finance  group's loans  receivable
were financed through the Company.  The interest expense on the amount funded by
the Company was $8.5 million and $18.3  million in 1996 and 1995,  respectively.
The decrease during 1996 was a result of decreased borrowings needed to fund the
auto loan and credit card portfolios.


Operating Expenses

                                        For the years ended September 30,
In millions                                   1996         1995         1994
- ------------------------------            ---------     --------     --------
Underwriting and distribution                $542.4       $412.0       $529.8
Employee related                              325.1        260.1        251.3
General and administrative                    148.0        129.1        107.3
Advertising and promotion                      71.7         70.1         69.1
Amortization of intangible assets              18.3         18.3         18.3
- ------------------------------            ---------     --------     --------
                                           $1,105.5       $889.6       $975.8


Underwriting and distribution  includes sales  commissions and distribution fees
paid to brokers and other third party  intermediaries.  During 1995, many of the
U.S. Franklin and Templeton funds introduced a new class of shares, called Class
II shares,  which pay brokers sales  commissions and distribution  fees that are
only  partially  recovered by the Company  through  distribution  fee  revenues.
During 1996, distribution expenses increased at a greater rate than distribution
revenues because of the relatively higher growth in the sales of Class II shares
and similar  products sold primarily by the Company's  Canadian  subsidiary.  In
1995,  underwriting and  distribution  expenses  decreased  primarily due to the
decrease in the sales of retail mutual fund shares.

While Class II shares  will  increase  distribution  expenses of the Company and
will utilize the Company's  capital  resources  over the short term, the Company
believes that Class II shares will result in an overall increase in assets under
management by expanding  distribution  of fund shares.  Sales of Class II shares
represented 12% and 8% of total  U.S.-based  long-term mutual fund new sales for
1996 and 1995, respectively.

In 1994,  the  Company  implemented  an annual  incentive  plan  which  provides
eligible  employees  payment of both cash and restricted stock. The value of the
stock  associated with the annual  incentive plan is charged to income currently
and is  determined  by the  Company's  Board of  Directors  based on  individual
performance and the Company's  profit.  Costs  associated with restricted  stock
awards granted prior to the adoption of the annual  incentive plan are amortized
over the contract period.  These deferred incentives vest through 1997. Employee
related costs  increased 25% and 4% in 1996 and 1995,  respectively,  reflecting
changes in  profitability  of the  corporation  and in the  number of  full-time
employees.  The number of full-time  employees  increased 9% and 10% in 1996 and
1995, respectively.

General and  administrative  expense  increased in all periods  under review due
principally  to higher  technology  and  occupancy  costs related to the general
expansion of the business.

Other Income (Expenses)

The 1996 and 1995  increases  in  investment  and  other  income  resulted  from
increases in the average  levels of  interest-bearing  assets,  as well as $17.3
million and $2.5 million in capital gains  realized on the sale of  investments,
in 1996 and 1995, respectively.

The Company's effective interest rate at September 30, 1996,  including interest
on the  banking/finance  group debt,  was 6.53% on $399.2 million of outstanding
commercial paper,  medium-term notes and subordinated  debentures as compared to
6.17% on $465.9 million of debt outstanding at September 30, 1995.

Taxes on Income

The Company's  effective  tax rate was 31%, 30% and 31% in 1996,  1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The Company's  effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory
rates due to the Company's  non-U.S.  subsidiaries'  relative  contributions  to
taxable income.  The Company does not provide taxes on these  earnings,  as they
have been  reinvested and are not expected to be remitted to the parent Company.
The  effective  tax  rate  will  continue  to  be  reflective  of  the  relative
contribution of foreign  earnings which are subject to reduced tax rates and are
not currently included in U.S. taxable income.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of September 30, 1996, stockholders' equity approximated $1.4 billion, double
that of three years earlier,  principally as the result of increased net income.
Cash provided by operating  activities  increased to $359.6  million in 1996, up
from $296.5 million and $274.8 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively, primarily
from  increased net income.  Net cash  provided by investing  activities in 1996
increased principally due to a decrease in loan originations, an increase in the
collections  of  banking/finance  loans  receivable  and from  proceeds from the
liquidation of investments in preparation  for the acquisition of the assets and
liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation as discussed below. The Company used
net cash of $193.7  million in 1996 for  financing  activities.  The issuance of
$134.4  million in medium-term  notes and commercial  paper was offset by $203.1
million in payments on debt.  The Company  paid $34.7  million in  dividends  to
stockholders.  During the year, the Company  purchased 1.0 million shares of its
common stock for $53.4  million.  As of September 30, 1996,  the Company had 3.9
million shares remaining under its authorized  repurchase  program.  The Company
will  continue  from time to time to purchase  its own shares in the open market
and in  private  transactions  for  use in  connection  with  various  corporate
employee  incentive programs and when it believes the market price of its shares
merits such action.

The Company's  auto loan and credit card  receivables  business  activities  are
subject to significant  fluctuations  in those consumer market places as well as
to  significant   competition   from  companies  with  much  larger   receivable
portfolios.  Auto loan and credit card  portfolio  losses can also be influenced
significantly  by trends in the  economy  and credit  markets  which  negatively
impact   borrowers'   ability  to  repay  loans.   As  of  September  30,  1996,
banking/finance loans receivable decreased due to net paydowns of existing loans
and a  decrease  in funding of new  loans.  A portion of the  proceeds  from net
paydowns  of loans was used to reduce the  receivable  from the  banking/finance
group.  As  of  September  30,  1996,  the  auto  loan  portfolio  consisted  of
approximately  55% new and 45% used  cars.  Approximately  75% of the auto loans
outstanding were in California,  approximately 10% in New Mexico and the balance
distributed  throughout the western United States. The Company has experienced a
decrease in  delinquency  rates since  September  30,  1995,  in response to its
expanded auto loan  collection  efforts and enhanced  systems  supporting  those
activities. Future increases in the Company's investment in dealer auto loan and
credit card  portfolios  will be funded  through  existing debt  facilities  and
operating cash flows.

At  September  30,  1996,  the  Company  held liquid  assets of $889.9  million,
including  $502.2  million of cash and cash  equivalents,  as compared to $643.2
million and $261.7 million, respectively, at September 30, 1995. During 1996 the
Company  maintained a $400 million  commercial  paper program and a $300 million
medium-term note program.  The Company has also established two revolving credit
and competitive  auction facilities as back-up for the commercial paper program.
At September 30, 1996,  total  back-up  credit  facilities  were $400 million of
which, $150 million was under a 364-day revolving credit facility. The remaining
$250 million  back-up  facility  has a five-year  term.  At September  30, 1996,
approximately  $750  million was  available to the Company  under unused  credit
facilities.  In October 1996,  the Company  increased the amounts  available for
issuance under its medium-term note program from $100 million to $500 million.

In November 1996, the holders of the  subordinated  debentures  exercised  their
option to receive approximately 2.4 million shares of the Company's common stock
in return for the  surrender of  approximately  $75 million of  debentures.  The
holders of the  subordinated  debentures  also agreed to sell to the Company the
remaining  option  rights and surrender  the  remaining  debentures  for cash of
approximately  $170 million.  The transaction  will be funded through  available
cash and the issuance of medium-term notes.

On November 1, 1996, the Company and Heine Securities Corporation announced they
had merged their businesses in a transaction with an approximate aggregate value
of $615 million. The Company financed the transaction with 1.1 million shares of
the  Company's  common  stock and a cash  payment of $550  million from cash and
securities on hand, as well as its available commercial paper.

In addition to the aforementioned Heine Securities  Corporation  acquisition and
subordinated  debenture option exercise,  management  expects that the principal
needs for cash will be to fund  increased  property and equipment  acquisitions,
pay shareholder  dividends,  repurchase shares of the Company's common stock and
repay  debt and  advance  sales  commissions  for Class II shares  and  Canadian
products.  Management  believes  that  the  Company's  existing  liquid  assets,
together with the expected continuing cash flow from operations,  its ability to
issue stock, and its borrowing capacity under current credit facilities, will be
sufficient to meet its present and reasonably foreseeable cash needs.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Index Of Consolidated Financial Statements for the years
ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994


           CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

                                                       Pages

Report of Independent Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   September 30, 1996 and 1995

Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended
   September 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity,
   for the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
   for the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


All schedules have been omitted as the  information is provided in the financial
statements  or in related  notes  thereto or is not  required to be filed as the
information is not applicable.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  Franklin
Resources,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of September  30, 1996 and 1995,  and the
related consolidated  statements of income,  stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  September  30,  1996.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all  material  respects,   the  consolidated   financial  position  of  Franklin
Resources,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of September  30, 1996 and 1995,  and the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 1996, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

San Francisco, California
October 23, 1996, except for Note 14,
for which the date is November 26, 1996





The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.


                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                             As of the years ended September 30,
- ------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------
In thousands                                         1996           1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------

Assets
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                           $483,975        $246,184
Receivables:
 Fees from Franklin Templeton funds                  133,453         110,972
 Other                                                54,727          38,407
Investment securities, available-for-sale            174,156         208,478
Prepaid expenses and other                             9,952           7,167
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
   Total current assets                              856,263         611,208
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
Banking/Finance Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                             18,214          15,515
Loans receivable, net                                345,399         450,013
Investment securities, available-for-sale             25,325          23,655
Other                                                  4,660           6,876
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
   Total banking/finance assets                      393,598         496,059
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
Other Assets:
Deferred sales commissions, net                       24,316           8,473
Property and equipment, net                          161,613         118,628
Intangible assets, net of $74,027 and $56,375
accumulated amortization, respectively               641,983         660,363
Receivable from banking/finance group                236,532         302,273
Other                                                 59,862          47,677
  Total other assets                               1,124,306       1,137,414
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
   Total assets                                   $2,374,167      $2,244,681
- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------


The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.





                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


                                             As of the years ended September 30,
In thousands                                       1996                1995
- -------------------------------------            ---------            ----------

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Current Liabilities:
Accrued employee related                           $77,935               $53,238
Commissions payable                                 28,067                21,280
Income taxes payable                                27,673                 8,221
Short-term debt                                        427                87,204
Other                                               48,099                43,128
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
  Total current liabilities                        182,201               213,071
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
Banking/Finance Liabilities:
Deposits:
 Interest bearing                                  125,124               159,627
 Non-interest bearing                                6,095                 9,747
Payable to parent                                  236,532               302,273
Other                                                1,725                 2,076
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
  Total banking/finance liabilities                369,476               473,723
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
Other Liabilities:
Long-term debt                                     399,462               382,367
Other                                               22,437                14,477
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
  Total other liabilities                          421,899               396,844
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
   Total liabilities                               973,576             1,083,638
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------

Stockholders' Equity:
Preferred stock, $1.00 par value,
1,000,000 shares authorized; none issued                -                     -
Common stock, $.10 par value, 500,000,000
shares authorized; 82,264,982 shares
issued in both years; and 80,272,131 and
80,939,611 shares outstanding, for 1996
and 1995, respectively                              8,226                 8,226
Capital in excess of par value                     101,226                92,190
Retained earnings                                1,370,513             1,091,204
Less cost of treasury stock                       (90,301)              (48,519)
Other                                               10,927                17,942
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
  Total stockholders' equity                     1,400,591             1,161,043
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------
   Total liabilities and stockholders' equity   $2,374,167            $2,244,681
- -----------------------------------------       ----------           -----------


The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.




The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.





The  accompanying  notes are an integral  part of these  consolidated  financial
statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the Company) derives
substantially  all of its  revenues  and net income  from  providing  investment
management,  administration,  distribution  and related services to the Franklin
Templeton  funds,  institutional  accounts and other  investment  products  that
operate in the United States,  Canada,  Europe and other  international  markets
under various rules and  regulations  set forth by the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission,  individual state agencies and foreign governments.  Services to the
Franklin  Templeton  funds are provided under  contracts that  definitively  set
forth the fees to be charged for these services. The majority of these contracts
are  subject  to  periodic   review  and   approval  by  each  fund's  Board  of
Directors/Trustees and shareholders. Currently, no fund represents more than 10%
of total revenues. Company revenues are largely dependent on the total value and
composition of assets under management, which include domestic and international
equity and debt portfolios;  accordingly,  fluctuations in financial markets and
in the  composition of assets under  management  impact  revenues and results of
operations.


BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The consolidated  financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  which require the use of estimates made by the
Company's  management.  Certain 1995 and 1994 amounts have been  reclassified to
conform to 1996 presentation.

The  consolidated   financial   statements  include  the  accounts  of  Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned  subsidiaries.  All material intercompany
accounts and  transactions are eliminated  except the intercompany  payable from
the  banking/finance  group to the  parent to fund auto and credit  card  loans.
Operating  revenues of the  banking/finance  group are presented net of interest
expense and the provision for loan losses.  Reported  interest  expense excludes
interest expense attributable to the banking/finance group.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash  equivalents  include cash on hand,  demand deposits with banks or
other high credit quality financial institutions, debt instruments with original
maturities  of three  months  or less,  and  other  highly  liquid  investments,
including money market funds,  which are readily  convertible  into cash. Due to
the  relatively  short-term  nature of these  instruments,  the  carrying  value
approximates fair value.


INVESTMENT SECURITIES

The Company's  investments in the Franklin  Templeton funds and other securities
available-for-sale  are carried at fair value.  Fair values for  investments  in
Franklin  Templeton  funds are based on the last reported net asset value.  Fair
values  for  other  investments  are  based  on the last  reported  price on the
exchange on which they are  traded.  Investments  not traded on an exchange  are
carried at management's estimate of fair value.

Realized gains and losses are included in investment  income  currently based on
specific identification.  Unrealized gains and losses are reported net of tax as
a separate component of stockholders' equity until realized.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

The Company is a party to  interest-rate  swap agreements in effect on a portion
of its long-term debt. The differential to be paid or received is accrued as the
interest  rates change and is recognized  over the term of the  agreements.  The
carrying value of these instruments approximated fair value (see Note 6).

LOANS RECEIVABLE

Interest on auto installment loans is accrued  principally using the rule of 78s
method,  which approximates the interest method.  Interest on all other loans is
accrued  using the simple  interest  method.  An  allowance  for loan  losses is
established monthly based on historical  experience,  including  delinquency and
loss  trends.  A loan  is  charged  to the  allowance  when it is  deemed  to be
uncollectible,  taking  into  consideration  the  value of the  collateral,  the
financial  condition  of the  borrower and other  factors.  Recoveries  on loans
previously  charged off as uncollectible  are credited to the allowance for loan
losses.

DEFERRED SALES COMMISSIONS

Sales  commissions paid to financial  intermediaries in connection with the sale
of certain share classes of open-end  Franklin  Templeton funds are deferred and
amortized on a  straight-line  basis over a period of up to eighteen  months for
U.S.-based  funds,  forty  months  for  Canadian-based  funds and four years for
European funds.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property  and  equipment  are  recorded  at  cost  and  are  depreciated  on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the  straight-line  basis over their estimated  useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

At September 30, 1996 and 1995,  intangible  assets  consist  principally of the
excess of cost over fair market value of the Company's acquisition of Templeton,
which is being amortized on a straight-line  basis over a period of forty years.
The Company has evaluated  the potential  impairment of goodwill on the basis of
the expected  future  operating  cash flows to be derived  from this  intangible
asset in relation to the Company's  carrying value and has determined that there
is no  impairment.  Periodically,  the Company will review the carrying value of
goodwill for potential impairment.

RECOGNITION OF REVENUES

Investment  management,   shareholder  servicing  fees,  investment  income  and
distribution fees are all accrued as earned. Underwriting commissions related to
the sale of Franklin Templeton fund shares are recorded on the trade date.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION

Costs of advertising  and promotion are expensed as the  advertising  appears in
the media.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Assets  and  liabilities  of  foreign  subsidiaries  are  translated  at current
exchange rates as of the end of the accounting  period, and related revenues and
expenses are  translated at average  exchange rates in effect during the period.
Net exchange  gains and losses  resulting  from  translation  are excluded  from
income and are recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses are reflected in income currently.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Earnings per share are  computed by dividing net income by the weighted  average
number of shares of common  stock  and  common  stock  equivalents  (principally
restricted stock and debenture option rights) considered outstanding during each
year. The weighted average number of shares and common stock equivalents used in
computing   earnings  per  share  in  1996,  1995,  and  1994  were  83,313,000,
83,114,000,   and  83,709,000  for  primary  and  83,761,000,   84,031,000,  and
83,709,000 for fully diluted, respectively.




Investments in the Franklin  Templeton funds are shares of investment  companies
for which the Company acts as investment manager.

At  September  30,  1996,  debt  securities,  at fair value  which  approximates
amortized cost, are as follows:

                                        Banking/            Other
                                        Finance              Debt
In thousands                             Group            Securities

- ----------------------------           --------           --------

Maturity:
0-1 year                              $23,190               $2,476
1-5 years                               2,024                4,776
Greater than 5 years                        -                3,829
                                     --------            ---------
                                      $25,214              $11,081


3. BANKING/FINANCE GROUP LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES The banking/finance
group's loans at September 30, 1996 and 1995 consisted of the following:

In thousands                             1996               1995
- -------------------------------        --------           ---------
Auto                                   $284,141            $400,867
Credit card                              87,527              95,040
Other                                     6,387               6,000
                                       --------           ---------
                                        378,055             501,907
Unearned fees and discounts            (23,092)            (42,813)
Allowance for loan losses               (9,564)             (9,081)
                                       --------           ---------
Loans receivable, net                  $345,399            $450,013

Activity in the banking/finance  group's allowance for loan losses for the years
ended September 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994 was as follows:

In thousands                         1996           1995           1994
- ----------------------------      ---------      ---------      ---------
Beginning balance                    $9,081         $3,170         $1,472
Provision for loan losses            16,691         17,189          5,415
Loans charged off                  (18,485)       (14,879)        (4,390)
Recoveries                            2,277          3,601            673
- ----------------------------      ---------      ---------      ---------
Ending balance                       $9,564         $9,081         $3,170



For the years ended September 30, 1996,  1995, and 1994, the interest expense of
the banking/finance  group included in  banking/finance,  net and other revenues
was $25.6 million, $28.6 million, and $12.2 million, respectively.

The fair value of consumer loans is estimated using interest rates that consider
the  current  credit and  interest  rate risk  inherent in the loans and current
economic and lending  conditions.  At September 30, 1996 and 1995,  the carrying
value of loans receivable approximated fair value.

The fair  values of the  banking  subsidiary's  deposits  subject  to  immediate
withdrawal are equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. Fair
values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using interest rates
currently  offered  on time  deposits  with  similar  remaining  maturities.  At
September  30,  1996 and 1995,  the  carrying  values  of  deposits  subject  to
immediate withdrawal and of fixed-rate certificates of deposit approximated fair
value.

4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The  following is a summary of property and  equipment at September 30, 1996 and
1995:

                                     Estimated
                                    Useful Lives
In thousands                          in Years         1996          1995
- ----------------------------        -----------      --------      ---------
Furniture and equipment                   3-5         $114,228        $88,769
Premises and leasehold
 improvements                            5-35           92,493         70,011
Leased equipment                            5            2,451          7,456
Land                                       --           23,811          9,984
                                                      --------      ---------
                                                       232,983        176,220
Less: Accumulated depreciation
 and amortization                                     (71,370)       (57,592)
                                                      --------      ---------
                                                      $161,613       $118,628





5. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company  conducts  operations in five principal  geographic areas of
the world: USA, Canada,  the Bahamas,  Europe and Asia/Pacific.  Revenue
by geographic  area includes fees and  commissions  charged to customers
and fees  charged to  affiliates.  Identifiable  assets are those assets
used exclusively in the operations of each geographic area.



Information is summarized below:






                                       ----------     ----------    ---------
                                                                    Operating
                                      Identifi-able                   Income
In thousands                             Assets        Revenue        (Loss)
- -----------------------------            ----------     ----------    ---------
Investment management                    $1,124,229     $1,517,533     $429,348
Banking/finance                             393,598          3,179     (11,090)
Other                                        11,379          1,856      (1,150)
                                         ----------     ----------    ---------
Company totals                           $1,529,206     $1,522,568     $417,108


                                         ----------     ----------    ---------
Investment management                      $958,200     $1,249,094     $379,288
Banking/finance                             496,059          6,841     (10,217)
Other                                         9,370          1,862        (930)
                                         ----------     ----------    ---------
Company totals                           $1,463,629     $1,257,797     $368,141


                                         ----------     ----------    ---------
Investment management                      $923,894     $1,328,629     $365,566
Banking/finance                             443,420         12,625        2,537
Other                                         8,806          1,287      (1,402)
                                         ----------     ----------    ---------
Company totals                           $1,376,120     $1,342,541     $366,701




The investment management segment's assets are primarily receivables from, and
investments in, Franklin Templeton funds and goodwill from the acquisition of
Templeton. The banking/finance segment's assets are primarily investment
securities and consumer loans.

6. DEBT
Debt at September 30, 1996 and 1995 was as follows:

                                           Weighted
                                            Average
                                           Effective
                                           Interest
In thousands                                 Rate        1996       1995

                                              -------    -------     -------

Short-Term Debt:
Current maturities of other notes
 and capital lease obligations                     --       $427      $1,283
Commercial paper                                   --         --      85,921
                                              -------    -------     -------
   Total short-term debt                                    $427     $87,204
                                              -------    -------     -------

Long-Term Debt:
Notes payable                                   6.57%   $120,000     $80,000
Commercial paper issued under
 long-term borrowing agreements                 6.04%    128,731     150,000
Subordinated debentures                         6.69%    150,000     150,000
Other notes and capital lease
 obligations                                                 731       2,367
                                                         -------     -------
   Total long-term debt                                 $399,462    $382,367

Maturities of long-term debt excluding other notes and capital lease obligations
are as follows (in thousands):



1997                                      $128,731
1998                                        60,000
2001                                        60,000
Thereafter                                 150,000
                                         ---------
                                          $398,731


The Company has two back-up credit agreements with a group of commercial banks
that will allow it at its option to refinance the commercial paper up to five
years from the closing date, May 17, 1996. In accordance with the Company's
intention and ability to refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, the
outstanding balance of $128.7 million at September 30, 1996 has been classified
long-term. The credit agreements include various restrictive covenants,
including: a capitalization ratio, interest coverage ratio, minimum working
capital and limitation on additional debt. The Company was in compliance with
all covenants as of September 30, 1996.

At September 30, 1996, the Company had interest-rate swap agreements maturing
August through September 1999 which effectively fixed interest rates on $125
million of commercial paper. The fixed rates of interest ranged from 6.240% to
6.451%. These financial instruments are placed with major financial
institutions. The creditworthiness of the counterparties is subject to
continuous review and full performance is anticipated. Any potential loss from
failure of the counterparties to perform is deemed to be immaterial. Subsequent
to year end, the Company entered into agreements to fix interest rates on an
additional $170 million of commercial paper at rates between 6.350% and 6.645%,
maturing in years 1998 through 2000 (see Note 14).

During 1994, the Company initiated a $300 million medium-term note program.
Notes totaling $120 million were issued during fiscal year 1996. These notes
mature at various times from 1998 through 2001. On October 9, 1996, the Company
increased the amounts available for issuance under its medium-term note program
from $100 million to $500 million.

The subordinated debentures mature on August 3, 2002 and have a fixed interest
rate of 6.25% per annum. Under certain circumstances, all or a portion of the
debentures could pay additional interest, increasing to a maximum rate of 7.77%.
The subordinated debentures have option rights which allow the holder to
purchase common shares of the Company at any time during the term of the
debentures, for cash or in redemption of the debentures. The Company may redeem
the debentures any time after August 3, 1997, or sooner, to the extent options
are exercised. The maximum number of shares purchasable under the option rights
was 4,721,435 shares at September 30, 1996. The option price ranges from $29.44
to $31.77 per share and the redemption price ranges from 92.68% to 100% of face
value, over the remaining term of the debentures (see Note 14).

The fair values of long-term debt are estimated using interest rates currently
offered to the Company for debt with similar remaining maturities. The fair
value of the option rights attached to the subordinated debentures is calculated
based on the Company's closing stock price and the option and redemption prices
at the reporting date. At September 30, 1996 and 1995, the fair value of
long-term debt approximated its carrying value.



7. INVESTMENT INCOME

In thousands                             1996          1995        1994
- ----------------------------             ---------    ---------   ---------
Dividends                                  $15,683      $12,873     $10,969
Interest                                    16,787       12,029       6,538
Realized gains, net                         17,271        2,499       1,396
Foreign exchange losses, net                 (394)        (355)       (420)
Other income                                 1,111        2,627       4,220
- ----------------------------             ---------    ---------   ---------
                                           $50,458      $29,673     $22,703

Substantially all of the Company's dividend income was generated by investments
in the Franklin Templeton funds.

8. Taxes on Income

Taxes on income for the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995,
and 1994 were comprised of the following:

In thousands                             1996          1995        1994
- -----------------------------        ---------     ---------    ---------
Current:
Federal                                    $98,803      $76,350     $87,951
   State                                    23,118       19,969      22,257
   Foreign                                  25,558       20,018      13,717
Deferred (benefit) expenses                (5,979)        1,373    (12,712)
- -----------------------------            ---------     ---------    ---------
   Total provision                        $141,500     $117,710    $111,213

Included in income before taxes was $225.7 million, $161.7 million, and $115.3
million of foreign income for the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995, and
1994, respectively.

The major components of the net deferred tax asset (liability) as of September
30, 1996 and 1995 were as follows:

In thousands                                                1996         1995
- ---------------------------------------------            --------    ---------
Deferred Tax Assets:
State taxes expensed currently, deductible
 in following year                                        $6,608       $5,543
Temporary differences on investment losses                 2,124        3,278
Loan loss reserves                                         3,760        3,868
Deferred compensation                                      1,983          486
Restricted stock compensation plan                        20,016       17,700
Net operating loss carryforwards                          18,203       16,180
Other                                                      5,077        1,478
                                                        --------    ---------
   Total deferred tax assets                              57,771       48,533
                                                        --------    ---------
Valuation allowance for net operating loss
 carryforwards                                          (18,203)     (16,180)
                                                        --------    ---------
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance           39,568       32,353
                                                        --------    ---------

Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Temporary differences on partnership
 earnings                                                 $5,504       $5,516
Capitalized compensation costs                             7,503        6,992
Net unrealized gains on securities                         4,622       11,942
Depreciation on fixed assets                               6,244        4,963
Prepaid expenses                                           6,019        3,309
Other                                                      1,315        1,899
                                                        --------    ---------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                         31,207       34,621
                                                        --------    ---------
Net deferred tax asset (liability)                        $8,361     $(2,268)


At September 30, 1996, there were approximately $20.1 million of foreign net
operating loss carryforwards of which approximately $2.8 million expire in 2003
and the remaining have an indefinite life. In addition, there are approximately
$192.4 million in state net operating loss carryforwards that expire between
2006 and 2011. A valuation allowance has been recognized to offset the related
deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of realizing the benefit of the loss
carryforwards.

A substantial portion of the undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries has been reinvested and is not expected to be remitted to the
parent company. Accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have been
provided thereon. At September 30, 1996, the cumulative amount of reinvested
income for which no U.S. taxes have been provided was approximately $369
million. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax
liability related to such reinvested income is not practicable because of the
numerous assumptions associated with this hypothetical calculation; however,
foreign tax credits would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.

The following is a reconciliation between the amount of tax expense at the
federal statutory rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations for the
years ended September 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively:


In thousands                                 1996        1995        1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -----------------------------------         ---------    --------    --------
U.S. federal statutory rate                       35%         35%         35%
Federal taxes at statutory rate              $159,786    $135,329    $126,882
State taxes, net of federal tax
 effect                                        18,167      12,747      12,944
Foreign earnings subject to reduced
 tax rates for which no U.S. tax is
 provided                                    (43,159)    (32,956)    (25,194)
Other                                           6,706       2,590     (3,419)
- -----------------------------------         ---------    --------    --------
Actual tax provision                         $141,500    $117,710    $111,213
- -----------------------------------         ---------    --------    --------
Effective tax rate                                31%         30%         31%


9. COMMITMENTS
The Company leases office space (including space from an unconsolidated
affiliate) and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at various
dates through fiscal year 2001. Lease expenses were $24.3 million, $21.8
million, and $15.1 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 1996, 1995,
and 1994, respectively.

At September 30, 1996, remaining operating lease commitments were as follows (in
thousands):

1997                         $16,970
1998                          14,501
1999                          13,177
2000                          10,362
2001                           4,037
Thereafter                    10,591
                            --------
                             $69,638

At September 30, 1996, the Company's banking/finance group had commitments to
extend credit aggregating $481 million principally under its credit card lines.

The Company through certain subsidiaries acts as fiduciary for retirement and
employee benefit plans. At September 30, 1996, assets held in trust were
approximately $12.8 billion.

10. Dividends

During the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, the Company declared
dividends to common stockholders of $0.44, $0.40, and $0.32 per share,
respectively.

11. Employee Stock Award and Option Plans

In 1994, the Company implemented an annual incentive plan which provides
eligible employees payment of both cash and restricted stock. The costs
associated with the annual incentive plan awards are charged to income
currently.

The Company has adopted stock option plans which provide for the grant of
options to officers and other key employees of the Company to purchase up to
2,358,250 shares of the Company's common stock of which 1,046,513 and 1,099,123
shares were authorized but unissued as of September 30,1996 and 1995,
respectively. Terms and conditions (including price, exercise date and number of
shares) are determined by the Board of Directors, which administers the plans.
At September 30, 1996, options to purchase 188,007 shares were outstanding at
prices ranging from $11.82 to $56.44 of which 38,411 shares were exercisable.
During 1996, 24,247 shares were granted and 52,610 were exercised.

Beginning with the financial statements for 1997, the Company will be required
to make certain additional disclosures as if the fair value-based method of
accounting, defined in SFAS 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," had
been applied to the Company's stock option grants made subsequent to September
30, 1995.

12. Employee Benefit and Incentive Plans

On January 1, 1996, the Company merged its two defined contribution plans. The
resulting defined contribution profit sharing 401(k) plan covers eligible U.S.
employees. Contributions are based on the Company's prior year's results of
operations and are made at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors.
The Company's contribution, including both profit sharing and matching
components, was $15.9 million, $13.9 million, and $10.1 million during 1996,
1995, and 1994, respectively.



13. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
                                                  Quarter
                            ------------------------------------------------
In thousands                   First      Second       Third      Fourth

- -------------------         -------     -------     -------     --------

Revenues                       $342,614    $393,801    $395,402    $390,751
Net income                      $73,951     $75,212     $81,066     $84,501
Earnings per share:
  Primary                         $0.89       $0.91       $0.98       $1.01
  Fully diluted                   $0.89       $0.91       $0.97       $1.01

Revenues                       $303,711    $298,033    $319,826    $336,227
Net income                      $63,304     $63,040     $69,029     $73,572
Earnings per share:
  Primary                         $0.76       $0.76       $0.84       $0.89
  Fully diluted                   $0.76       $0.76       $0.83       $0.88

Revenues                       $342,313    $365,329    $316,463    $318,436
Net income                      $59,001     $68,601     $60,023     $63,683
Earnings per share:
  Primary                         $0.70       $0.82       $0.72       $0.76
  Fully diluted                   $0.70       $0.82       $0.72       $0.76

14. Subsequent Events

Acquisition

On November 1, 1996, the Company acquired the assets and liabilities of Heine
Securities Corporation, Inc. (Heine), the investment advisor to Mutual Series
Fund Inc. (Mutual). The transaction has an aggregate value of approximately $615
million. The shareholder of Heine received $550 million in cash and 1.1 million
shares of Franklin Resources, Inc. common stock which may not be sold for two
years and which are subject to other restrictions. The shareholder will
initially invest $150 million of the cash proceeds in Mutual with a minimum
balance of $100 million for five years. The Company financed the cash payment
from cash and securities on hand, as well as its available commercial paper. As
part of the financing for this transaction, the Company entered into swap
agreements with major financial institutions which became effective on October
31, 1996 and mature through October 31, 2000. (See Note 6.)

Subordinated Debentures

On November 26, 1996, the holders of the option rights related to the Company's
subordinated debentures (see Note 6) have entered into an agreement with the
Company to exercise their option rights to receive approximately 2.4 million
shares of the Company's common stock in return for approximately $75 million of
the subordinated debentures. In addition, the Company has agreed to purchase the
remaining $75 million of subordinated debentures and option rights from the
holders for approximately $170 million. The Company intends to finance the
purchase of the option rights from the proceeds of a new issuance of medium-term
notes and cash on hand.


                             PART III


Items 10-13 are incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be mailed to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held January 23, 1997.



                              PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1)     Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statements
           filed as part of this report.

   (2)     Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statement
           schedules filed as part of this report.

   (3)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

     (3)(i)(a)  Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November 28,
                1969, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(i) to the
                Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

     (3)(i)(b)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(c)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed April 1, 1987, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(d)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed February 2, 1994, incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(ii)    Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10 
                (File No. 06952), incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(v) 
                to the 1994 Annual Report

       10.1     Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth Fund,
                Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on 
                Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1993 (the 
                "1993 Annual Report")

       10.2     Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth
                Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual 
                Report

       10.3     Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual
                Report

       10.4     Representative Management Agreement between Advisers and the
                Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

       10.5     Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan between Distributors and
                the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.3 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.6     Registrant's Amended Annual Incentive Compensation Plan approved
                January 24, 1995 incorporated by reference to the Company's
                Proxy Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December
                28, 1994 in connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders
                held on January 24, 1995.

       10.7     Registrant's Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994
                incorporated by reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement
                filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December 29, 1993 in
                connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
                January 19, 1994.

       10.8     Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995
                Quarterly Report")

       10.9     Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.10    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Global Strategy SICAV and Templeton Investment Management 
                Limited, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 
                1995 Quarterly Report

       10.11    Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, 
                Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities, 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 
                Quarterly Report

       10.12    Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton 
                Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to 
                Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.13    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.14    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.15    Representative Amended and Restated Transfer Agent and
                Shareholder Services Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                Investor Services, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc.,
                dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
                to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

       10.16    Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement 
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin 
                Custodian Funds, Inc.,incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17
                to the 1995 Annual Report.

       10.17    Representative Class II Distribution Plan between 
                Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian 
                Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series, incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.18   Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton 
                Distributors, Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to 
                Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.19   Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for
                Accounts of Bank and Trust Company Customers, effective July 1,
                1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995
                Annual Report.

        10.20   Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Value
                Investors Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and
                Franklin Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.21   Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, 
                Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor, incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.22   Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between 
                Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment 
                Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report.

       10.23    Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
                Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Templeton
                Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18,
                1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995
                Annual Report.

       10.24    Agreement to Merge the Businesses of Heine Securities
                Corporation, Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin
                Resources, Inc., dated June 25, 1996, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated June 25,
                1996.

       10.25    Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services 
                dated November 1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor 
                Services, Inc. and PFPC Inc.


       10.26    Representative Sample of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services,
                Inc. Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement.

       10.27    Representative Administration Agreement between Templeton 
                Growth Fund, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

       10.28    Representative Sample of Fund Administration Agreement with 
                Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

       10.29    Representative Subcontract for Fund Administrative Services 
                between Franklin Advisers, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services,
                Inc.

       10.30    Representative Investment Advisory Agreement between Franklin 
                Mutual Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

       10.31    Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark 
                Funds and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

       10.32    Representative Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation 
                Agreement between Franklin Templeton Fund Allocator Series and 
                Franklin Advisers, Inc.

       10.33    Representative Management Agreement between Franklin New York 
                Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory 
                Services, Inc.

       12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
             Charges

       21    List of Subsidiaries

       23    Consent of Independent Accountants

       27    Financial Data Schedule

(b)  (1)   A Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 25, 1996 was filed on
           July 26, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated July 25,
           1996 under Items 5 and 7.

     (2)   A Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 1996 was filed on
           October 25, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated October
           24, 1996 under Items 5 and 7.

     (3)   A Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 27, 1996 was filed on
           November 27, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated November
           27, 1996 under Items 5 and 7.

(c)       See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)       No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
          in Item 8.



SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                                            Charles B. Johnson, President


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                                            Charles B. Johnson, Principal
                                            Executive Officer and Director

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  HARMON E. BURNS
                                            Harmon E. Burns, Executive Vice
                                            President-Legal and Adminis-
                                            trative,Secretary and Director

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  MARTIN L. FLANAGAN
                                            Martin L. Flanagan, Treasurer
                                            and Chief Financial Officer

Date:  December 26, 1996           By   /S/ KENNETH A. LEWIS
                                            Kenneth A. Lewis, Controller

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  JUDSON R. GROSVENOR
                                            Judson R. Grosvenor, Director

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  F. WARREN HELLMAN
                                            F. Warren Hellman, Director

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  CHARLES E. JOHNSON
                                            Charles E. Johnson, Director

Date:  December 26, 1996           By  /S/  RUPERT H. JOHNSON, JR.
                                            Rupert H. Johnson, Jr., Director

Date:  December 26, 1996            By  /S/ HARRY O. KLINE
                                            Harry O. Kline, Director

Date:  December 26, 1996            By  /S/ LOUIS E. WOODWORTH
                                            Louis E. Woodworth, Director

Date:  December 26, 1996            By /S/  PETER M. SACERDOTE
                                            Peter M. Sacerdote, Director


                                INDEX OF EXHIBITS

     (3)(i)(a)  Registrant's Certificate of Incorporation, as filed November 28,
                1969, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(i) to the
                Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Annual Report")

     (3)(i)(b)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed March 1, 1985, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(c)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed April 1, 1987, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(i)(d)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                Incorporation, as filed February 2, 1994, incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

     (3)(ii)    Registrant's By-Laws are incorporated by reference to Form 10 
                (File No. 06952), incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(v) 
                to the 1994 Annual Report

       10.1     Representative Distribution Plan between Templeton Growth Fund,
                Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's 
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 
                30, 1993 (the "1993 Annual Report")

       10.2     Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth
                Fund, Inc. and Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual 
                Report

       10.3     Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual 
                Report

       10.4     Representative Management Agreement between Advisers and the
                Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

       10.5     Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan between Distributors and
                the Franklin Group of Funds incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.3 to the 1992 Annual Report

       10.6     Registrant's Amended Annual Incentive Compensation Plan approved
                January 24, 1995 incorporated by reference to the Company's
                Proxy Statement filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December
                28, 1994 in connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders
                held on January 24, 1995.

       10.7     Registrant's Universal Stock Plan approved January 19, 1994
                incorporated by reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy Statement
                filed under cover of Schedule 14A on December 29, 1993 in
                connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
                January 19, 1994.

       10.8     Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995
                Quarterly Report")

       10.9     Representative Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Federal Tax-Free Income Fund, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.10    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Global Strategy SICAV and Templeton Investment Management 
                Limited, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 
                1995 Quarterly Report

       10.11    Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, 
                Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities, 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 
                Quarterly Report

       10.12    Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton 
                Distributors,Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to 
                Exhibit 10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.13    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.14    Representative Investment Management Agreement between Templeton
                Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (NON-ERISA), incorporated 
                by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

       10.15    Representative Amended and Restated Transfer Agent and
                Shareholder Services Agreement between Franklin/Templeton
                Investor Services, Inc. and Franklin Custodian Funds, Inc.,
                dated July 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16
                to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended September 30, 1995 (the "1995 Annual Report")

       10.16    Representative Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement 
                between Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin
                Custodian Funds, Inc.,incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17
                to the 1995 Annual Report.

       10.17    Representative Class II Distribution Plan between 
                Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. and Franklin Custodian 
                Funds, Inc., on behalf of its Growth Series, incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.18   Representative Dealer Agreement between Franklin/Templeton 
                Distributors,Inc. and Dealer, incorporated by reference to 
                Exhibit 10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.19   Representative Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales Agreement for
                Accounts of Bank and Trust Company Customers, effective July 1,
                1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995
                Annual Report.

        10.20   Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Value
                Investors Trust, on behalf of Franklin MicroCap Value Fund, and
                Franklin Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                10.21 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.21   Representative Sub-Distribution Agreement between Templeton, 
                Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Sub-Distributor, incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report.

        10.22   Representative Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between 
                Templeton Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton Franklin Investment 
                Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18, 1995, incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report.

       10.23    Representative Shareholder Services Agreement between
                Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, Inc. and Templeton
                Franklin Investment Services (Asia) Limited, dated September 18,
                1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995
                Annual Report.

       10.24    Agreement to Merge the Businesses of Heine Securities
                Corporation, Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin
                Resources, Inc., dated June 25, 1996, incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit 2 to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated June 25,
                1996.

       10.25    Subcontract for Transfer Agency and Shareholder Services 
                dated November 1,1996 by and between Franklin Investor Services,
                Inc. and PFPC Inc.

       10.26    Representative Sample of Franklin/Templeton Investor Services, 
                Inc. Transfer Agent and Shareholder Services Agreement.

       10.27    Representative Administration Agreement between Templeton Growth
                Fund, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

       10.28    Representative Sample of Fund Administration Agreement with 
                Franklin Templeton Services, Inc.

       10.29    Representative Subcontract for Fund Administrative Services 
                between Franklin Advisers, Inc. and Franklin Templeton Services,
                Inc.

       10.30    Representative Investment Advisory Agreement between Franklin 
                Mutual Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

       10.31    Representative Management Agreement between Franklin Valuemark 
                Funds and Franklin Mutual Advisers, Inc.

       10.32    Representative Investment Advisory and Asset Allocation 
                Agreement between Franklin Templeton Fund Allocator Series and 
                Franklin Advisers, Inc.

       10.33    Representative Management Agreement between Franklin New York 
                Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin Investment Advisory 
                Services, Inc.

       12    Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
             Charges

       21    List of Subsidiaries

       23    Consent of Independent Accountants

       27    Financial Data Schedule

(b) (1)    A Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 25, 1996 was filed on
           July 26, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated July 25,
           1996 under Items 5 and 7.

    (2)    A Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 1996 was filed on
           October 25, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated October
           24, 1996 under Items 5 and 7.

    (3)    A Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 27, 1996 was filed on 
           November 27, 1996 attaching Registrant's press release dated 
           November 27, 1996 under Items 5 and 7.

(c)       See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)       No separate financial statements are required; schedules are included
          in Item 8.



