
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K




                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                                   (Mark One)
            [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000
                                       OR

          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to

                          Commission file number 1-9318

                            FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE                                                        13-2670991
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

777 MARINERS ISLAND BLVD., SAN MATEO, CA                          94404
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code             (650) 312-2000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
COMMON STOCK,PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE            NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE,
                                                 PACIFIC EXCHANGE, INC. AND
                                                 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                     COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. YES  X    NO
                                                ---      ---




Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, based upon the closing price of $36.57 on December 1, 2000 on the
New York Stock Exchange was $4,751,245,257. Calculation of holdings by
non-affiliates is based upon the assumption, for these purposes only, that
executive officers, directors, nominees, Registrant's Profit Sharing Plan and
persons holding 5% or more of Registrant's Common Stock are affiliates. Number
of shares of the Registrant's common stock outstanding at December 1, 2000:
243,618,404

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Certain portions of the Registrant's proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on January 25, 2001, which shall be filed under cover of
Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in
December, 2000 (the "Proxy Statement"), are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.









                    INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                                            PAGE
                                                           NUMBER
FORM 10-K                                             REFERENCE TO THIS
REQUIRED INFORMATION                                  2000 ANNUAL REPORT
- --------------------                                     ON FORM 10-K
                                                     --------------------

PART I

      ITEM 1.     BUSINESS
                  General Business Summary
                  Investment Advisory and Related Services
                  Banking/Finance Operations
                  Regulatory Considerations
                  Competition
                  Company History
                  Financial Information About Industry Segments

      ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

      ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
                    SECURITY HOLDERS

PART II

      ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
                    EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                    MATTERS

      ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
                    ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                    AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
                    DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

      ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                    SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




      ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
                    ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

PART III

      ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
                    OF THE REGISTRANT
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors"*

      ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors"*

      ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
                    BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                    MANAGEMENT
                  Proxy: "Principal Holders of Voting Securities"
                    and "Security Ownership of Management"*

      ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                    TRANSACTIONS
                  Proxy: "Proposal 1: Election of Directors -
                    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" *

PART IV

      ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
                    SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
                    FORM 8-K
                  Consolidated Financial Statements
                  Reports on Form 8-K
                  List of Exhibits

* Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement.




Franklin  Resources,  Inc.  files  reports with the SEC.  Copies of any of these
filings  can be  obtained  from the  SEC's  Public  Reference  Room at 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

We also file reports with the SEC electronically via the Internet. The SEC
maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov. Additional information about Franklin
Resources, Inc. can also be obtained at our website at
http://www.franklintempleton.com.






                                     PART I

"FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS."  When used in this  Annual  Report on Form  10-K,
words or phrases  about the future such as  "expected  to," "could  have," "will
continue,"    "anticipates,"    "estimates,"   or   similar    expressions   are
"forward-looking  statements"  as defined in the Private  Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.  Statements  in  "Business,"  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis"  ("MD&A"),  and elsewhere in this document that speculate about future
events are  "forward-looking  statements." These types of statements are subject
to certain  risks and  uncertainties  as  described  below,  including  the risk
factors explained in MD&A. These risks and uncertainties could cause our current
expectations  and  predictions  in the  forward-looking  statements to be wrong.
Forward-looking  statements  are our best  prediction  at the time that they are
made, and you should not rely on them. If a circumstance  occurs that causes any
of our forward-looking  statements to be inaccurate,  Franklin  Resources,  Inc.
does not have an obligation to publicly announce the change to our expectations,
or to make any revision to the forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL BUSINESS SUMMARY

Franklin  Resources,  Inc. ("FRI" or the "Company") was organized in Delaware in
November  1969.  FRI and its  predecessors,  have been engaged in the  financial
services  business  since 1947.  The common stock of FRI is traded in the United
States  ("U.S.")  primarily  on the New  York  Stock  Exchange  and the  Pacific
Exchange,  Inc.  under the ticker symbol "BEN" and under the ticker symbol "FKR"
in the London Stock Exchange. The term "Franklin(R) Templeton(R) Investments" as
used in this document,  refers to Franklin Resources,  Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries.

The majority of our operating revenues, operating expenses and net income are
derived from providing investment advisory and related services to retail mutual
funds, institutional and private accounts, and other investment products
globally. Related services include transfer agency, fund administration,
custodial, trustee and fiduciary services. This is our primary business activity
and operating segment. The mutual funds and other products that we advise,
collectively called our "sponsored investment products", are sold to the public
under three brand names: Franklin, Templeton, and Mutual Series (TM). Our
sponsored investment products, include 240 broad range domestic and
global/international equity, fixed-income and money market mutual funds, as well
as other investment products that meet a wide variety of investment needs of
individuals and institutions. From time to time, we also participate in various
investment management joint ventures. On a consolidated worldwide basis,
Franklin Templeton Investments provides U.S. and international individual and
institutional investors with a broad range of investment products and services




designed to meet varying investment objectives. This affords our clients the
opportunity to allocate their investment resources among various alternative
investment products as changing worldwide economic and market conditions
warrant.

Our secondary business activity and operating segment is banking/finance. Our
banking/finance group offers consumer lending and selected retail banking
services directly to the public.

Franklin Templeton Investments' equity investment products include some that are
value-oriented  and  others  that  reflect a growth  style of  investing.  Value
investing  focuses on  identifying  companies  which our  research  analysts and
portfolio managers believe are undervalued based on a number of factors.  Growth
investing relies on the review of macro-economic,  industry and sector trends to
identify  companies that exhibit superior growth potential  relative to industry
peers and the  broad  market.  Unlike  other  management  styles  that  focus on
short-term  market  trends,  our growth  portfolio  investment  management  team
invests in companies demonstrating  long-term growth potential,  based mainly on
proprietary in-house analysis and research.

We originated our fund business with the Franklin Funds(R) and added the other
fund brand names through acquisitions, which are described in the "Company
History" section below. When used in this report, the following terms generally
apply unless otherwise noted. Information in this report is given as of
September 30, 2000 unless otherwise noted.

"Franklin Templeton
mutual funds" or "Franklin
Templeton funds" means:                All of the Franklin, Templeton and Mutual
                                       Series mutual funds.


"sponsored investment products" means: All of the Franklin, Templeton and Mutual
                                       Series mutual funds;closed-end investment
                                       companies; foreign-based investment
                                       products; and other U.S. and
                                       international private and institutional
                                       accounts.

Our revenues are largely dependent upon the level and relative composition of
assets under management. To a lesser degree, our revenues also depend upon the
level of mutual fund sales and the number of mutual fund shareholder accounts.
These factors are discussed below under "Investment Advisory and Related
Services - Assets Under Management."




As of September 30, 2000, total assets under management by Franklin Templeton
Investments were $229.9 billion. Assets under management included $180.9 billion
in the U.S.-registered mutual funds (including insurance dedicated funds), and
$49.0 billion in closed-end investment companies, foreign-based investment
products and U.S. and foreign private and institutional accounts. At September
30, 2000, we employed approximately 6,500 people in 29 countries, serving
customers on six different continents.


I.    INVESTMENT ADVISORY AND RELATED SERVICES

Franklin  Templeton   Investments'  principal  line  of  business  is  providing
investment advisory and management services. In support of our core business, we
provide  the  following  support  services;  fund  administration,   shareholder
processing,  distribution  and related  services  for our  sponsored  investment
products.  Fund shares are offered to individual  investors,  qualified  groups,
trustees,  tax-deferred (such as IRA) or money purchase plans,  employee benefit
and  profit  sharing  plans,   trust  companies,   bank  trust  departments  and
institutional investors. In addition,  various management and advisory services,
commingled and pooled accounts,  wrap fee arrangements and various other private
investment  management services are offered to certain private and institutional
investors.

As  discussed  below in "MD&A,"  our  revenues  are derived  primarily  from its
investment  management  operating segment. Our revenues and income are dependent
upon many  factors,  such as the  level  and  composition  of our  assets  under
management,  the  numbers  and  types  of  shareholders  in our  funds  and  our
agreements with the advisers that sell our products to the public. These factors
are described below in the following sections:

      a. Assets Under Management
      b. Asset Mix
      c. Investment Management and Related Services
      d. Types of Shares Offered by Our Funds
      e. Distribution, Marketing and Related Services
      f. Shareholder Servicing
      g. Investment Objectives of Funds
      h. Product Categorization


a. ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT ("AUM")

Franklin Templeton Investments' revenues depend to a large extent upon the
dollar value of assets under management because we earn most of our fees based
upon the amount of assets in the accounts that we are advising. As of September
30, 2000, the type of assets under management held by investors on a worldwide
basis was:




TYPE OF ASSETS                   VALUE IN BILLIONS    % OF TOTAL AUM

EQUITY

                                   $ 151.5                  65.9%
Growth potential, income potential or various combinations thereof.

FIXED-INCOME

                                   $  63.8                  27.8%
Both long and short-term.

HYBRID FUNDS

                                   $   9.3                   4.0%
Asset allocation, balanced, flexible and income-mixed funds.

MONEY FUNDS

                                   $   5.3                   2.3%
Short-term liquid assets.

b. ASSET MIX

As  discussed  above,  our  revenues  are  derived   primarily  from  investment
management  activities.  Broadly  speaking,  the change in the net assets of the
funds depends upon two factors: (1) the level of sales of shares of the funds as
compared to redemptions of shares of the funds; and (2) the increase or decrease
in the market value of the securities  owned by the funds.  As our asset mix has
shifted since 1992 from predominantly  fixed-income  securities to a majority of
equity  assets,  we have  become  subject  to an  increased  risk of asset,  and
therefore  revenue,  volatility  from changes in the domestic and global  equity
markets.  In addition,  because we generally  derive higher  revenues and income
from our equity assets, a shift in assets from equity to fixed-income would have
a greater than proportional reduction on total income and revenues. Despite such
volatility,  management believes that in the long run we are more competitive as
a result of the  greater  diversity  of  investment  products  available  to our
customers.




Many factors affect market values, including the general condition of national
and world economics and the direction and volume of changes in interest rates
and/or inflation rates. Fluctuations in interest rates and in the yield curve
affect the value of fixed-income assets under management as well as the flow of
monies to and from fixed-income funds. In turn, this affects our revenues from
those funds. The multiplicity of factors impacting asset mix make it difficult
to predict the net effect of any particular set of conditions.

Although our assets under  management are subject to political and currency risk
due  to  our  international  investment  activities,   our  direct  exposure  to
fluctuations  in foreign  currency  markets is more limited,  as is discussed in
more detail in "MD&A."

c. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SERVICES

Franklin Templeton Investments provides investment advisory, portfolio
management, transfer agency, business management agent and other administrative
services to our sponsored investment products. Various Franklin Templeton
Investments subsidiary companies manage and implement the investment activities
of sponsored mutual funds and provide the business management and/or
administrative services which are necessary to the operation of each fund's
business. Subsidiary companies also conduct research and provide the investment
advisory services and determine which securities the funds will purchase, hold
or sell as directed by each fund's board of trustees, directors or
administrative managers. In addition, the subsidiary companies take all steps
necessary to implement such decisions, including selecting brokers and dealers,
executing and settling trades in accordance with detailed criteria set forth in
the management agreement for each fund, and applicable law and practice. Similar
services are rendered with respect to the closed-end investment companies,
foreign-based funds and other U.S. and international private and institutional
accounts.

The investment advisory services provided by Franklin Templeton Investments
include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including
original economic, political, industry and company research, company visits and
inspections, and the utilization of such sources as company public records and
activities, management interviews, company prepared information, and other
publicly available information, as well as analyses of suppliers, customers and
competitors. In addition, research services provided by brokerage firms are used
to support our findings.

In some instances, brokerage firms agree to pay third-party providers for
research provided to Franklin Templeton Investments' advisory subsidiaries in
recognition of brokerage business which may be (but is not contractually
required to be) directed to those brokerage firms by Franklin Templeton
Investments' advisory subsidiaries in accordance with regulations adopted by the
SEC. In accordance with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the " '34 Act") and as permitted by fund prospectuses and contracts with




individual accounts, the investment adviser may also direct brokerage to firms
for execution services as permitted by the National Association of Securities
Dealers (the "NASD"). Subject to receiving best execution, advisory subsidiaries
may direct trades to brokers who sell shares of the funds advised by the
advisory subsidiaries.

Fixed-income research includes economic, credit and value analysis. The economic
analysis function monitors and evaluates numerous factors that influence the
supply and demand for credit on a worldwide basis. Credit analysis researches
the creditworthiness of debt issuers and their individual short-term and
long-term debt issues. Value analysis reviews yield spread differential and the
relative value of market sectors that represent buying and selling
opportunities.

Investment  management and related services are provided  pursuant to agreements
in  effect  with  each  of  our  U.S.-registered  Franklin  Templeton  open  and
closed-end   mutual   funds.   Comparable   agreements   are  in   effect   with
foreign-registered  funds and with private accounts.  In general, the management
agreements for our U.S.-registered Franklin Templeton open and closed-end mutual
funds must be renewed  each year,  and must be  specifically  approved  at least
annually by a vote of such funds' board of trustees or directors or by a vote of
the holders of a majority  of such  funds'  outstanding  voting  securities.  In
either  event,  renewal  must be  approved  by a  majority  vote of such  funds'
trustees  or  directors  who are not  parties to such  agreement  or  interested
persons of any such  party  (other  than as  members  of the  board)  within the
meaning of the Investment  Company Act of 1940 (the " '40 Act"),  cast in person
at a meeting  called for that  purpose.  Foreign-registered  funds have  various
termination rights, review and renewal provisions that are not discussed in this
report.

Each U.S. management or advisory agreement between Franklin Templeton
Investments and each fund automatically terminates in the event of its
"assignment" (as defined in the '40 Act). "Assignment" is defined in the '40 Act
as including any direct or indirect transfer of a controlling block of voting
stock of the investment adviser to a fund. "Control" is defined as the power to
exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company.
Therefore, if there was a change in control of Franklin Templeton Investments,
such as through a merger or an acquisition, the majority of the U.S. management
and advisory agreements with the sponsored investment products would
automatically terminate. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement
without penalty after written notice ranging from 30 to 60 days.

If management agreements representing a significant portion of our assets under
management were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on our
company. To date, no management agreements of Franklin Templeton Investments
with any of the Franklin Templeton funds have been involuntarily terminated.

The funds themselves have no paid employees. Generally, Franklin Templeton
Investments provides and pays the salaries of personnel who serve as officers of
the Franklin Templeton funds, including the President and other administrative
personnel as necessary to conduct such funds' day-to-day business operations.
These personnel provide information, ensure compliance with securities
regulations, maintain accounting systems and controls, prepare annual reports
and perform other administrative activities. Various subsidiaries have contracts



with the funds to provide additional services including maintaining a fund's
portfolio records, answering shareholder inquiries, and creating and publishing
literature.

The funds generally pay their own expenses such as legal, custody and auditing
fees, reporting costs, board and shareholder meeting costs, SEC and state
registration fees and similar expenses. The funds also pay Franklin Templeton
Investments a fee payable monthly in arrears based upon a fund's net assets.
Annual fee rates under the various global investment management agreements
generally range from 0.15% to a maximum of 2.00% and are often reduced as net
assets exceed various threshold levels.

Our investment management agreements permit Franklin Templeton Investments to
serve as an adviser to more than one fund so long as our ability to render
services to each of the funds is not impaired, and so long as purchases and
sales appropriate for all of the advised funds are made on a proportionate or
other equitable basis. The management personnel of Franklin Templeton
Investments and the fund directors or boards of trustees regularly review the
fund advisory and other administrative fee structures in light of fund
performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and
other relevant factors. Advisory and other administrative fees are generally
waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund is established and then increased
to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values
reach certain levels.

Franklin Templeton Investments uses a "master/feeder" fund structure in limited
situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single
portfolio of securities at the "master fund" level and have multiple "feeder
funds" invest all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual
and institutional shareholders invest in the "feeder funds" which can offer a
variety of service and distribution options. An advisory fee is charged at the
master fund level, and administrative and shareholder servicing fees are charged
at the feeder fund level.

d. TYPES OF SHARES OFFERED BY OUR FUNDS

Most of the  U.S.-registered  Franklin  Templeton funds have a multi-class share
structure.  Franklin  Templeton  Investments  adopted  this share  structure  to
provide investors with greater sales charge  alternatives for their investments.
Class A shares represent a traditional fee structure whereby the investor pays a
commission at the time of purchase to the broker/dealer.  During fiscal 1999 and
continuing  thereafter in fiscal 2000, we introduced  Class B shares for many of
our funds,  which have no front-end  sales  charges but instead have a declining
schedule of sales charges  (called  contingent  deferred  sales  charges) if the
investor  redeems  within  the first  six (6)  years.  For  Class B shares,  the
commission is advanced by the fund's distributor to pay the broker/dealer. Class
C shares  have a hybrid,  level  load  pricing  structure  combining  aspects of
conventional front-end, back-end and level-load pricing.




In the U.S., we also offer Advisor Class shares in Franklin and Templeton  funds
and Z Class shares in Mutual Series funds on a limited basis, both of which have
no sales charges. The Advisor and Z Class shares are sold to officers, directors
and current and former employees of Franklin Templeton Investments, and are also
offered to institutions  and investment  advisory  clients (both  affiliated and
unaffiliated), as well as individuals investing $5 million or more. In addition,
shareholders  who held  shares  of the  Mutual  Series  funds  at the time  that
Franklin Templeton  Investments acquired the assets of the investment advisor to
the Mutual  Series  funds may  continue  to  purchase Z Class  shares.  Franklin
Templeton Investments also sells money market funds to investors without a sales
charge.  Under the terms and  conditions  described in the  prospectuses  or the
statements  of  additional  information  for some funds,  certain  investors can
purchase  shares at net asset value or at reduced  sales  charges.  In addition,
investors may generally  exchange  their shares of a fund at net asset value for
shares  within  the  same  class  of  another  fund  in the  Franklin  Templeton
Investments group without having to pay additional sales charges.

The Franklin Templeton  insurance product funds generally have a two class share
structure,  Class 1 and Class 2, which are offered at net asset value  without a
sales  load  directly  to  the   insurance   company   separate   accounts  (the
shareholder). The only difference between the two classes is that Class 2 shares
pay  a  distribution   and  service   ("12b-1")  fee  (as  described   below  in
"Distribution,   Marketing  and  Related   Services")   to  Franklin   Templeton
Investments, the insurance company or others for the expenses of activities that
are  primarily  intended  to sell  shares  of the  class or  variable  contracts
offering shares of the class.  These 12b-1 fees are generally assessed quarterly
at an annual rate of 0.25% of the average daily net assets of the class.

The following table  summarizes the U.S. retail fund sales and  distribution fee
structure for various share classes.  The fees below generally apply to our U.S.
registered retail funds, however,  there are exceptions to this fee schedule for
some funds.




FEES PAID BY SHAREHOLDERS TO FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTMENTS FOR MOST
U.S.-REGISTERED RETAIL FUNDS


- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. RETAIL FUNDS   CLASS A SHARES    CLASS B SHARES (c)    CLASS C SHARES
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sales Charge
At Time of Sale

     Equity         5.75%  (a)        None.                 1.00%
     Fixed-income   4.25%  (a)        None.                 1.00%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contingent          None.  (b)        4% maximum            1% if
Deferred Sales                        declining to zero     shareholder
Charge                                after 6 years of      sells shares
                                      each investment.      within 18 months
                                                            of investment.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maximum Yearly
12b-1 Plan Fees

     Equity         0.25%             1.00%                 1.00%
     Fixed-income
          Taxable   0.25%             0.65%                 0.65%
          Tax-free  0.10%             0.65%                 0.65%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Types of investors  Any.              Any.                  Any.
that may purchase
this share class
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. RETAIL FUNDS   ADVISOR CLASS SHARES            Z CLASS SHARES (d)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sales Charge
At Time of Sale     None.                           None.
     Equity
     Fixed-income
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contingent          None.                           None.
Deferred Sales
Charge
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maximum Yearly      None.                           None.
12b-1 Plan Fees
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Types of investors  Officers, directors             Officers, directors and
that may purchase   and current and former          current and former employees
this share class    employees of Franklin           of Franklin Templeton
                    Templeton Investments;          Investments; Institutions,
                    Institutions, investment        investment advisory clients,
                    advisory clients,               individuals investing $5
                    individuals investing $5        million or more in Mutual
                    million or more in Franklin     Series funds and
                    or Templeton funds.             shareholders that hold
                                                    shares of the Mutual Series
                                                    funds reclassified as Z
                                                    shares.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




(a)  Reductions in the maximum sales charges may be available depending upon the
     amount  invested  and the type of  investor.  In some  cases  noted in each
     fund's prospectus or statement of additional information, certain investors
     may  invest  in Class A shares  at net  asset  value  (with  no  load).  In
     connection  with  certain of these  no-load  purchases,  Franklin/Templeton
     Distributors,  Inc.  may  make a  payment  out of its  own  resources  to a
     broker/dealer involved with that sale.
(b)  For NAV purchases  over $1 million,  a contingent  deferred sales charge of
     1.0% may apply to shares redeemed within one year of investment.
(c)  Class B  shares  convert  to  Class A  shares  after  eight  (8)  years  of
     ownership.
(d)  When the Company  entered into  management  contracts for the Mutual Series
     funds,  the existing  shares of Mutual Series funds were  reclassified as Z
     Class  shares in  exchange  for the  shares  that  they held at that  time.
     Shareholders  who held shares of the Mutual  Series  funds at the time that
     Franklin  Templeton  Investments began to advise Mutual Series may continue
     to purchase Z Class shares.

e. DISTRIBUTION, MARKETING AND RELATED SERVICES

Franklin/Templeton Distributors, Inc. ("Distributors"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of
shares of the U.S.-registered open-end Franklin Templeton funds. Distributors
has entered into underwriting agreements with the funds, which generally provide
for Distributors to pay the commission expenses for sales of fund shares.
Franklin Templeton fund shares are sold primarily through a large network of
independent intermediaries, including broker/dealers, banks and other similar
investment advisers. We are heavily dependent upon these distribution channels
and business relationships. There is increasing competition for access to these
channels, which has caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause
further increases in the future as competition continues and service
expectations increase. In addition, many intermediaries also have mutual funds
offered for sale under their own names that compete directly with our products.
These intermediaries could decide to limit or restrict the sale of our fund
shares, which could lower our future sales, increase redemption rates, and cause
our revenues to decline. As of September 30, 2000, approximately 3,900 local,
regional and national securities brokerage firms offered shares of the
U.S.-registered Franklin Templeton funds for sale to the investing public. In
the United States, Franklin Templeton Investments has approximately 64 general
wholesalers and six (6) retirement plan wholesalers who interface with the
broker/dealer community.

Broker/dealers receive various fees from Distributors, including fees from
investors and the funds, for services in matching investors with funds whose
investment objectives match such investors' goals and risk profiles.
Broker/dealers may also receive fees for their assistance in explaining the
operations of the funds, in servicing the investor's account, reporting and
various other distribution services.




Most of the U.S.-registered Franklin Templeton funds, with the exception of
certain Franklin Templeton money market funds, have adopted distribution plans
(the "Plans") under Rule 12b-1 promulgated under the '40 Act ("Rule 12b-1"). The
Plans are established for an initial term of one (1) year and, thereafter, must
be approved annually by the particular fund's board and by a majority of
disinterested fund directors. All such Plans are subject to termination at any
time by a majority vote of the disinterested directors or by the particular fund
shareholders. The Plans permit the funds to bear certain expenses relating to
the distribution of their shares, such as expenses for marketing, advertising,
printing and sales promotion. Fees under the Plans for the different share
classes are shown above in the chart under "Types of Shares Offered by Our
Funds." The implementation of the Plans provided for a lower fee on Class A
shares acquired prior to the adoption of such Plans. Fees from the Plans are
paid primarily to third-party dealers who provide service to the shareholder
accounts, and engage in distribution activities. Distributors may also receive
reimbursement from the funds for various expenses that Distributors incurs
involved in distributing the funds, such as marketing, advertising, printing and
sales promotion subject to the Plans' limitations on amounts. Each fund has a
percentage limit for these type of expenses based on average assets under
management.

Class B and C shares are generally more costly to us in the year of sale, but
they allow us to be competitive by increasing our presence in various
distribution channels. Franklin Templeton Investments finances payments of the
Class B share broker commissions. The repayment of the financing advances is
limited to the cash flows generated by the funds' 12b-1 Plans and by any
contingent deferred sales charges collected in connection with early redemptions
(within six years after purchase).

The fees below generally apply to our U.S.-registered retail funds, however,
there are exceptions to this fee schedule for some funds.






FEES  PAID  BY  FRANKLIN  TEMPLETON  INVESTMENTS  TO  BROKER/DEALERS  AND  OTHER
INTERMEDIARIES FOR MOST U.S.-REGISTERED RETAIL FUNDS

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. RETAIL FUNDS   CLASS A SHARES       CLASS B SHARES          CLASS C SHARES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dealer Commission
 At Time of Sale

     Equity               5.00%               4.00%                    2.00%
     Fixed-income         4.00%               3.00%                    2.00%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maximum Yearly
 12b-1 Plan Fees

     Equity               0.25%               1.00% (a)                1.00% (c)
     Fixed-income
          Taxable         0.25%               0.65% (b)                0.65% (d)
          Tax-free        0.10%               0.65% (b)                0.65% (d)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(a)  Franklin Templeton  Investments retains a fee equal to 0.75% and pays 0.25%
     to the  broker/dealer  of the average assets in the account.  After 8 years
     from the date of the investment,  Class B shares are converted into Class A
     shares.
(b)  Franklin Templeton  Investments retains a fee equal to 0.50% and pays 0.15%
     to the  broker/dealer  of the average assets in the account.  After 8 years
     from the date of the investment,  Class B shares are converted into Class A
     shares.
(c)  Franklin Templeton  Investments retains a fee equal to 0.75% of the average
     assets in the account for the first twelve (12) months  following the sale,
     after which it is paid annually to the broker/dealer.
(d)  Franklin Templeton  Investments  retains a fee equal to 0.50% of the assets
     in the account for the first twelve (12) months  following the sale,  after
     which it is paid annually to the broker/dealer.

f. SHAREHOLDER SERVICING

Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc.  ("FTISI") is a Franklin Templeton
Investments  subsidiary which provides  shareholder  record keeping services and
acts as  transfer  agent  and  dividend-paying  agent  for  the  U.S.-registered
Franklin  Templeton  open-end  funds.  FTISI  is  registered  with  the SEC as a
transfer agent under the '34 Act.  FTISI is compensated  under an agreement with
each fund on the basis of an annual fee per account,  which varies with the fund
and the type of services being  provided,  and is reimbursed  for  out-of-pocket
expenses.  In  addition,  certain  funds  reimburse  FTISI based on assets under
management.  Other subsidiaries  provide the same services to the open-end funds
offered for sale in Canada,  Europe and Asia under similar fee arrangements.  As
of September 30, 2000, there were approximately 9.2 million shareholder accounts
in the Franklin Templeton Investments group worldwide.




g. INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES OF FUNDS

Franklin Templeton Investments' sponsored investment products accommodate a
variety of investment goals, including capital appreciation, growth and income,
income, tax-free income and preservation of capital. In seeking to achieve such
objectives, each portfolio emphasizes different investment securities.
Portfolios that seek capital appreciation invest primarily in equity securities
in a wide variety of international and U.S. markets; some seek broad national
market exposure, while others focus on narrower sectors such as precious metals,
health care, emerging technology, large-cap companies, small-cap companies, real
estate securities and utilities. Portfolios seeking income generally focus on
taxable and tax-exempt money market instruments, tax-exempt municipal bonds,
global fixed-income securities, fixed-income debt securities of corporations and
of the U.S. government and its agencies and instrumentalities such as the
Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage
Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. Still others focus
on investments in particular countries and regions, such as emerging markets. A
majority of the assets managed are equity-oriented.

Franklin Templeton Investments also provides investment management and related
services to a number of closed-end investment companies whose shares are traded
on various major U.S. and some international stock exchanges. In addition,
Franklin Templeton Investments provides investment management, marketing and
distribution services to certain sponsored investment companies organized in the
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (called "SICAV Funds"), which are distributed in
marketplaces outside of North America, to certain investment funds and
portfolios in Canada as well as to certain other international portfolios in the
United Kingdom and elsewhere.

In addition to closed-end funds, our sponsored investment products also include
portfolios managed for some of the world's largest corporations, endowments,
charitable foundations, pension funds, wealthy individuals and other
institutions. Franklin Templeton Investments uses various investment techniques
to focus on specific client objectives for these specialized portfolios.

As of September 30, 2000, the net assets under management of our five (5)
largest funds were Franklin Small-Cap Growth - I ($15.8 billion), Templeton
Growth Fund ($13.8 billion), Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc.
($13.3 billion), Templeton Foreign Fund ($12.3 billion), and the Templeton World
Fund ($9.4 billion). These five (5) mutual funds represented, in the aggregate,
28.0% of all Franklin Templeton Investments' assets under management.

Prior to May 1, 2000, a total of 35 funds in two trusts were available in the
United States to insurance company separate accounts as investment options for




variable annuity and variable life insurance.  In February 2000, shareholders of
one trust approved an agreement and plan of reorganization  and as the result of
the reorganization, including the merger of certain funds, effective May 1, 2000
the insurance product funds were consolidated into a single trust with 27 funds,
thus  eliminating  some  duplicative  expenses.  Most of the  funds  related  to
variable insurance  contracts have been fashioned after some of the more popular
funds offered to the general public and are managed,  in most cases, by the same
investment  adviser.  In  November  1999,  one of the trusts  added a fund which
included a third class to be offered  exclusively  to pension  plans.  Two other
insurance  product  funds were also added in May 2000,  bringing the total to 29
funds with assets of $10.1 billion as of September 30, 2000.

h. PRODUCT CATEGORIZATION

The  Investment  Company  Institute  (the  "ICI"),  an  industry  group of which
Franklin Templeton  Investments is a member, has developed detailed  definitions
for the  investment  objectives  of  U.S.-registered  mutual  funds and variable
annuity and variable life sub-accounts.  In addition to the open-end mutual fund
assets described in the chart below, Franklin Templeton Investments also manages
approximately  $54.9  billion,  24%  of our  assets,  in  closed-end  investment
companies,  foreign-based  funds and other U.S.  and  international  private and
institutional accounts.  Approximately $22.7 billion of these assets are held in
separate  accounts.  The  investment  objectives of these  accounts vary but are
primarily equity-oriented.  Approximately $22.2 billion of these assets are held
in international-based  funds whose investment objectives vary but are primarily
international and global equity-oriented.  Amounts invested by our institutional
clients  across  product  types,  including  mutual funds,  trusts,  and private
accounts, were $48.2 billion at September 30, 2000.

From time to time, as business reasons, market conditions or investor demand
warrant, Franklin Templeton Investments introduces new funds, merges existing
funds, or liquidates existing funds. The following chart shows the types of our
U.S.-registered mutual funds and dedicated insurance product funds as of
September 30, 2000. The categories used in this chart are more precise than the
broad investment objective categories used in "MD&A" and in our "Consolidated
Financial Statements." The following chart is categorized using the ICI
definitions.












i. RECENT FUND INTRODUCTIONS AND CHANGES

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000, a number of new funds were
introduced, both within the U.S. and internationally. In the U.S., the Franklin
Technology Fund and Franklin Small Cap Growth Fund II were added to the Franklin
Strategic Series. Additionally, the Company launched the Franklin Large Cap
Value Fund within the Franklin Value Investors Trust. The Company launched under
the Franklin Templeton Variable Insurance Products Trust the Franklin S&P 500
Index Fund, the Franklin Technology Securities Fund and the Franklin Aggressive
Growth Securities Fund. In the U.S., we also added the Templeton Overseas Growth
Fund, the Templeton Global Restructuring Fund and the Franklin Floating Rate
Trust.

Internationally,  we launched several new SICAV sub-funds  including:  FTIF High
Yield Euro, FTIF  Technology,  FTIF Emerging Markets  Innovations,  FTIF Biotech
Discovery,  FTIF Aggressive Growth and FTIF Mutual European Fund.  Additionally,
in the United  Kingdom we launched  the  Franklin  Biotechnology  Fund,  another
sub-fund in Franklin Templeton Funds. In Asia, we launched the FTF Franklin Life
Sciences Discovery Fund, the TIF Japan Fund and the TIF Global Balanced Fund. In
Latin  America,  we  introduced  Bradesco  Templeton  Funds,  in which there are
currently two sub-funds, the Brazilian High Income Fund and the Brazilian Equity
Fund.  We have also  incorporated  Franklin  Floating  Rate Fund,  a feeder fund
located in Dublin,  Ireland,  which invests in the Franklin Floating Rate Master
Trust. In Canada,  we launched nine funds which are similar versions of Franklin
equity  growth-style  funds,  including  Franklin  U.S.  Large Cap Growth  Fund,
Franklin U.S. Aggressive Growth Fund, Franklin World Health Sciences and Biotech
Fund, Franklin World Telecom Fund, Franklin Technology Fund, Franklin U.S. Money
Market Fund,  Templeton Global Balanced RSP Fund, Franklin U.S. Small Cap Growth
RSP Fund and Mutual Beacon RSP Fund. We also  introduced  some  country-specific
funds,  including  four funds that are both  managed and  distributed  in India,
including  Templeton Monthly Income Plan,  Franklin India Growth Fund,  Franklin
India Index Fund and Franklin India Balanced Fund.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000, one (1) Templeton fund was
liquidated, seven (7) variable annuity funds merged into other variable annuity
funds, three (3) Templeton funds merged into other Templeton funds, and one (1)
Franklin Templeton fund merged into another Franklin Templeton fund.
Internationally, we liquidated one (1) Templeton fund.

II.   BANKING/FINANCE OPERATIONS

Franklin  Templeton  Investments'  second operating segment is  banking/finance,
through which we offer banking products and services.  A more detailed  analysis
of the  financial  effects of loan  losses  and  delinquency  rates in  Franklin
Templeton  Investments'  consumer lending and dealer auto loan business, as well
as the funding of this activity,  is contained in Note 3 in the Notes to the
Financial Statements.




These activities are carried out by the subsidiaries described below.

Franklin Templeton Bank & Trust, F.S.B. ("Bank"), a subsidiary of FRI, with
total assets of $117.9 million, as of September 30, 2000, provides FDIC insured
deposit accounts and general customer loan products such as credit card loans
and auto loans. The Bank (formerly known as Franklin Bank) became chartered as a
federal savings bank on May 1, 2000 when the Office of Thrift Supervision
approved the Bank's application to convert from a California state banking
charter to a Federal thrift charter.

Immediately following the conversion of the Bank's state charter to a federal
thrift charter, Franklin Templeton Trust Company, a California chartered trust
company, was merged into the Bank and continues to perform its prior activities
as a division of the Bank. The Bank exercises full trust powers and through its
Trust Division serves primarily as custodian of Individual Retirement Accounts
and business retirement plans whose assets are invested in the Franklin
Templeton funds. It also serves as trustee or fiduciary of private trusts and
retirement plans.

Franklin  Capital  Corporation  ("FCC") is a subsidiary  of FRI formed to expand
Franklin  Templeton  Investments'  lending  activities  related primarily to the
purchase,  securitization  and servicing of retail  installment  sales contracts
("automobile contracts") originated by independent automobile dealerships.  FCC,
headquartered in Utah,  conducts its business primarily in the Western region of
the United States and is a finance company organized and licensed under the laws
of Utah. As of September 30, 2000, FCC's total assets included $168.7 million of
outstanding   automobile   contracts.   During  fiscal  2000,  FCC   securitized
approximately  $124.9 million of automobile  contract  receivables  for which it
maintains servicing rights. FCC continues to service $193 million of receivables
that have been  securitized  to date.  See Note 3 in the Notes to the  Financial
Statements.

Our securitized consumer receivables business is subject to marketplace
fluctuation and competes with businesses with significantly larger portfolios.
Auto loan and credit card portfolio losses can be influenced significantly by
trends in the economy and credit markets which reduce borrowers' ability to
repay loans.

III.  REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS

Virtually all aspects of Franklin Templeton Investments' businesses are subject
to various foreign, and U.S. federal and state, laws and regulations. As
discussed above, Franklin Templeton Investments and a number of our subsidiaries
are registered with various foreign, and U.S. federal and state, governmental
agencies. These supervisory agencies have broad administrative powers, including
the power to limit or restrict Franklin Templeton Investments from carrying on
our business if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. In the




event of non-compliance, the possible sanctions which may be imposed include
disciplinary action against individual employees, limiting Franklin Templeton
Investments' (or a subsidiary's) ability to engage in business for specified
periods of time, revoking the investment adviser or broker/dealer registrations,
or similar foreign registrations, as well as censures and fines.

Franklin Templeton Investments' compliance procedures meet the standards
outlined in the most recent guidelines of the ICI related to securities
transactions by employees, officers and directors of investment companies.
Franklin Templeton Investments' officers, directors and employees may from time
to time own securities which are also held by the funds. Franklin Templeton
Investments' internal policies with respect to individual investments by certain
employees, including officers and directors who are employed by Franklin
Templeton Investments, require prior clearance and reporting of most
transactions and restrict certain transactions to address the possibility of
conflicts of interest.

To the extent that existing or future regulations cause or contribute to reduced
sales of fund shares or investment products or impair the investment performance
of the funds or such other investment products, our assets under management and
revenues might be adversely affected. Changes in regulations affecting free
movement of international currencies might also adversely affect Franklin
Templeton Investments.

Since 1993, the NASD Conduct Rules have limited the amount of aggregate sales
charges which may be paid in connection with the purchase and holding of
investment company shares sold through brokers. The effect of the rule might be
to limit the amount of fees that could be paid pursuant to a fund's 12b-1 Plan
to Distributors, a subsidiary of FRI that earns underwriting commissions on the
distribution of fund shares. Such limitations would apply in a situation where a
fund has no, or limited, new sales for a prolonged period of time. None of the
Franklin Templeton funds are in, or close to, that situation at the present
time.

IV.   COMPETITION

The financial services industry is highly competitive and has increasingly
become a global industry. There are over 8,000 open-end investment companies of
varying sizes, investment policies and objectives whose shares are being offered
to the public in the United States. Due to Franklin Templeton Investments'
international presence and varied product mix, it is difficult to assess our
market position relative to other investment managers on a worldwide basis, but
Franklin Templeton Investments believes that we are one of the more widely
diversified investment managers in the United States. Franklin Templeton
Investments believes that our equity and fixed-income asset mix coupled with our
global presence will serve our competitive needs well over the long term.
Franklin Templeton Investments continues to focus on service to customers,
performance of investment products and extensive marketing activities with our




strong broker/dealer and other financial institution distribution network.

Franklin Templeton Investments faces strong competition from numerous stock
brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and
loan associations and other financial institutions which also offer a wide range
of financial services. In recent years, there has been a trend of consolidation
in the financial services industry, resulting in stronger competitors with
greater financial resources than Franklin Templeton Investments.

Although we rely on intermediaries to sell and distribute Franklin Templeton
fund shares, many of these intermediaries also have mutual funds under their own
names that compete directly with our products. The banking industry also
continues to expand its sponsorship of proprietary funds. These intermediaries
could decide to limit or restrict the sale of our fund shares, which could lower
our future sales and cause our revenues to decline. Franklin Templeton
Investments has and continues to pursue sales relationships with all types of
intermediaries to broaden our distribution network. We are currently expanding
our Internet e-business to compete with the rapidly developing and evolving
capabilities being offered with this technology. It is not currently possible to
predict the effect of the Internet on Franklin Templeton Investments or on the
financial services industry overall.

As investor interest in the mutual fund industry has increased, competitive
pressures have increased on sales charges of broker/dealer distributed funds.
Franklin Templeton Investments believes that, although this trend will continue,
a significant portion of the investing public still relies on the services of
the broker/dealer community, particularly during weaker market conditions.
Franklin Templeton Investments has experienced increased demand for payments to
its distribution channels and anticipates that this trend will continue.

We believe that we are well positioned to deal with changes in marketing trends
as a result of our already extensive advertising activities and broad based
marketplace recognition. Franklin Templeton Investments does significant
advertising and conducts sales promotions through various media sources to
promote brand recognition. We advertise in major national financial
publications, as well as on radio and television to promote brand name
recognition and to assist its distribution network. Such activities included
purchasing network and cable programming, sponsorship of sporting events, such
as the "Franklin Templeton Investments Shark Shoot-Out", sponsorship of The
Nightly Business Report on public television, and extensive newspaper and
magazine advertising.

Diverse and strong competition affects the banking/finance segment of our
business as well, and limits the interest rates that we can charge on consumer
loans. We compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, including
the finance subsidiaries of large automobile manufacturers.




V. COMPANY HISTORY

In October 1992, Franklin Templeton Investments acquired substantially all of
the assets and liabilities of the investment adviser to the Templeton, Galbraith
& Hansberger Ltd. financial services business. This acquisition added the
Templeton family of funds to our company.

In November 1996, Franklin Templeton Investments acquired certain assets and
liabilities of Heine Securities Corporation, which provided investment
management services to various accounts and investment companies, including
Mutual Series Fund Inc., now known as Franklin Mutual Series Fund Inc. ("Mutual
Series"). Subsequent to the Mutual Series acquisition, Franklin Templeton
Investments has managed Mutual Series on a unified basis with its other business
operations.

The  purchase  price paid at the closing of the Mutual  Series  acquisition  was
funded  through a  combination  of available  cash,  securities  and the sale of
commercial  paper.  The base purchase  price  consisted of $551 million in cash,
including  acquisition  expenses,  and the delivery of 3.3 million shares of FRI
common  stock.  The  purchase  price  included  the deposit  into escrow of $150
million to be invested in shares of Mutual  Series.  The escrow money shares are
being released over a five-year period from the date of the acquisition,  with a
minimum $100 million retention for the full five-year period. In addition to the
base purchase price, the transaction  included a contingent payment ranging from
$96.25 million to $192.5 million under certain conditions if certain agreed-upon
growth  targets are met over the five years  following  the  closing.  The first
contingent  payment of $64.2 million related to these agreed-upon growth targets
was made in the third  quarter of fiscal 1998 and was  accounted for as goodwill
related to the additional  purchase price of the Mutual Series  acquisition.  No
payments were made in fiscal 1999 or 2000. A final contingent payment may be due
in November 2001 if agreed upon growth targets are met. See Note 10 in the Notes
to the Financial Statements.

On September 11, 1998, Franklin Templeton  Investments entered into an agreement
with FEP Capital II, L.L.C. to form Lightning Finance Company Limited ("LFL"), a
private limited liability company incorporated in Ireland on March 13, 1998. LFL
is in the  business  of  financing  the  up-front  sales  commissions  paid  to
distributors  for the sale of  open-end  mutual  fund  shares sold on a deferred
sales charge basis globally. Franklin Templeton Investments owns 49% of LFL, and
currently  finances  the  payment of  commissions on its Class B share  sales in
Canada, the United States and Europe through LFL.


On July 25, 2000, Franklin Templeton Investments purchased all of the remaining
outstanding shares of a Korean asset management company in which Franklin
Templeton Investments formerly held a 44% interest. The purchase price for the
shares was approximately $20.3 million.

On August 1, 2000, Franklin Templeton Investments entered into an agreement with
Nedcor Investment Bank Holdings, Ltd., a South African company, to form Franklin
Templeton NIB Asset Management ("FTNIB"). Franklin Templeton Investments
contributed cash and other assets with a value of approximately $27 million to
the venture in return for a 50% ownership interest in FTNIB.

On October 2, 2000, pursuant to an offer to purchase all of the outstanding
shares of Bissett & Associates Investment Management, Ltd. ("Bissett"), FTI
Acquisition Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Templeton Management Limited, an




indirect,  wholly-owned  subsidiary of FRI,  acquired  6,817,817  common shares,
representing  98.1%  of the  issued  and  outstanding  shares  of  Bissett,  for
CDN$20.50 per share (equivalent to approximately $US 13.62). On October 3, 2000,
FRI exercised its right to acquire the remaining 1.9% outstanding Bissett shares
(subject  to any  appraisal  rights  that may be asserted as to the amount to be
paid  for  the  remaining   shares).   The  cash   transaction  was  valued  at
approximately CDN $140 million (equivalent to approximately US $95 million).

Bissett provides investment advisory services throughout Canada to a broad range
of clients including: institutional clients such as pension and other savings
plans of corporations, municipalities, universities, endowments, and charitable
foundations; mutual funds and pooled trusts including Bissett's own family of
retail mutual funds as well as third party mutual funds; and private clients of
both Bissett and other financial institutions. Bissett had approximately $5.5
billion (CND)($US 3.8 billion) under management as of June 30, 2000.

On October 25,  2000,  after the close of the fiscal year,  the Company  entered
into an Agreement and Plan of Share  Acquisition (the  "Acquisition  Agreement")
with Fiduciary Trust Company International,  a bank organized under the New York
State Banking Law ("Fiduciary"),  providing for the acquisition by FRI of all of
the outstanding  shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Fiduciary
("Fiduciary  Common Stock").  The acquisition will be accomplished by way of the
exchange  of shares of common  stock,  par value  $.10 per  share,  of FRI ("FRI
Common Stock") for shares of Fiduciary  common stock,  par value $1.00 per share
of pursuant to the  procedures  set forth in Section 143-a of the New York State
Banking  Law  (the  "Share  Exchange").  The  stock  transaction  is  valued  at
approximately $825 million. In addition, there is a provision for an $85 million
retention pool to cover, among other things, various payments aimed at retaining
certain key employees of  Fiduciary.  The  completion  of the Share  Exchange is
subject to the receipt of necessary  governmental  approvals (including approval
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System),  Fiduciary shareholder
approval and other customary closing  conditions,  and costs, and is expected to
close in the second quarter of fiscal 2001.

VI.   FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Information on Franklin Templeton Investments' operations in various geographic
areas of the world and a breakout of business segment information is contained
in Note 6 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.




ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

As of September 30, 2000,  Franklin  Templeton  Investments leased its principal
executive and  administrative  offices located at 777 Mariners Island Boulevard,
San  Mateo,  California  and  offices  and  facilities  in eight (8)  additional
locations in the immediate vicinity of its headquarters.  In addition,  Franklin
Templeton Investments owns seven (7) buildings near Sacramento,  California,  as
well as seven (7)  buildings in St.  Petersburg,  Florida,  two (2) buildings in
Nassau,  Bahamas as well as space in office  buildings in  Argentina,  China and
Singapore.  Certain  properties  of Franklin  Templeton  Investments  were under
construction  during fiscal 2000 as described  below.  Since Franklin  Templeton
Investments is operated on a unified basis,  corporate activities,  fund related
activities,  accounting  operations,  sales, real estate and banking operations,
auto  loans  and  credit  cards,   management   information  system  activities,
publishing and printing  operations,  shareholder  service  operations and other
business  activities and operations  take place in a variety of such  locations.
Franklin  Templeton  Investments  or its  subsidiaries  also lease  office space
domestically in Florida,  New York, and Utah and  internationally  in Australia,
Brazil,  Canada, China,  England,  France,  Germany,  Holland, Hong Kong, India,
Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg,  Poland, Russia, Scotland, South Africa, Spain,
Switzerland, Taiwan, and Turkey.





I.    LEASED PROPERTIES

As of September 30, 2000, Franklin Templeton Investments leased properties at
the locations set forth below:

                                Approximate     Approximate
                                     Square     Current Base          Expiration
 LOCATION                           FOOTAGE   MONTHLY RENTAL                DATE

777 Mariners Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404                176,000         $585,000           July 2001

500 East Broward Boulevard
Ft. Lauderdale, FL  33394           135,000         $293,000           June 2011

555 Airport Boulevard
Burlingame, CA  94010                94,000         $229,000           July 2001

1800 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404(a)              70,000         $214,000        October 2001

1810 Gateway Drive
San Mateo, CA  94404(b)              48,000         $177,000           June 2001

1950 Elkhorn Court
San Mateo, CA  94403(c)              37,000          $46,000           July 2001

901 Mariners Island Blvd.
San Mateo, CA  94404                 16,000          $44,000         August 2001


951 Mariners Island Blvd.                                      Between July 2001
San Mateo, CA  94404                  9,000          $30,000     and August 2001


5130 Hacienda Drive                  49,000         $111,000            May 2007
Dublin, CA  94568

2000 Alameda de las Pulgas           36,000         $125,000       February 2005
San Mateo, CA 94403

51 JFK Parkway
Short Hills, NJ  07028               28,000          $80,000            May 2005

4760 Eastgate Mall
San Diego, CA  92121(d)              47,000          $55,000          March 2009





4780 Eastgate Mall                   47,000          $55,000          March 2009
San Diego, CA  92121(e)

4810 Eastgate Mall                   93,321         $144,647          April 2010
San Diego, CA  92121(f)

4820 Eastgate Mall                   63,532          $98,474            May 2010
San Diego, CA  92121(g)

1400 Fashion Island Boulevard
San Mateo, CA  94404                 13,000          $44,000           June 2001

Other U.S. Locations                 64,000             --                --

Foreign Locations                   257,000             --                --


(a)  Franklin Templeton Investments, at its option, may terminate the lease by
     providing the lessor with six (6) months notice to terminate.

(b)  Franklin  Templeton  Investments  subleased  4,000  square feet of the 1810
     Gateway Drive property to a third party until July 1, 2001.

(c)  Franklin Templeton Investments subleased the 1950 Elkhorn Court property to
     a third party until July 31, 2001.

(d)  Franklin Templeton Investments subleased the 4760 Eastgate Mall property to
     a third party until August 31, 2007.

(e)  Franklin Templeton Investments subleased the 4780 Eastgate Mall property to
     a third party until March 31, 2009.

(f)  Franklin Templeton Investments subleased the 4810 Eastgate Mall property to
     a third party until April 30, 2010.

(g)  Franklin Templeton Investments subleased the 4820 Eastgate Mall Property to
     a third party until May 31, 2010.





II.   OWNED PROPERTIES

In Rancho Cordova, California, Franklin Templeton Investments owns five (5)
office buildings totaling approximately 424,000 square feet, plus a data
center/warehouse facility of approximately 162,000 square feet and a warehouse
building of approximately 69,000 square feet.

In St. Petersburg, Florida, Franklin Templeton Investments owns seven (7) office
buildings totaling approximately 670,000 square feet, as well as an approximate
117,000 square foot facility devoted to a computer data center, training,
warehouse and mailing operations in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Franklin Templeton Investments owns two (2) office buildings in Nassau, Bahamas,
of approximately 14,000 square feet and approximately 25,000 square feet,
respectively, as well as a nearby condominium residence. Franklin Templeton
Investments also owns three (3) separate office-building floors of approximately
1,200, 8,000 and 10,000 square feet in Shanghai, China, Buenos Aires, Argentina,
and Singapore, respectively.

III.  SALE OF CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS

On July 11, 2000, Franklin Templeton Investments finalized the sale of its 60%
interest in its current headquarters in San Mateo, California to an independent
third party. The total purchase price for the property was $80.0 million of
which approximately $22.0 million was applied toward the payment of an
outstanding loan secured by the property. Franklin Templeton Investments
received proceeds from the sale of approximately $34.0 million, net of closing
costs and will record a gain on sale of approximately $32.8 million, net of the
write-off of certain leasehold improvements on the property. Franklin Templeton
Investments will recognize this gain over a 12-month period ending July 31,
2001, the anticipated period over which Franklin Templeton Investments have
agreed to leaseback the property pending completion of construction of its new
corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California.

IV.   NEW CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS

In June 1999, Franklin Templeton Investments acquired approximately 32 acres of
undeveloped land ("Bay Meadows") located in San Mateo, California for a total
purchase price of $21.6 million. In connection with this purchase, Franklin
Templeton Investments deposited with the seller and the City of San Mateo $22
million representing an estimate of our share of certain off-site improvements.
A final reconciliation of the actual amount due to the seller will be made after
the improvements have been completed.

In June 2000, Franklin Templeton Investments entered into a five-year operating
lease agreement in connection with the construction of the new corporate




headquarters to be located on a portion of Bay Meadows, which Franklin Templeton
Investments has ground leased to a special purpose lessor trust. The total cost
of the corporate headquarters covered by this lease agreement is limited to $170
million. The lease provides for a substantial residual value guarantee
(approximately 85% of the total cost) by Franklin Templeton Investments which is
due on termination of the lease. The lease includes renewal options that can be
exercised at the end of the initial lease period, and purchase options that can
be exercised prior to the expiration of the lease term. Upon termination of the
lease, Franklin Templeton Investments can either exercise our purchase option,
or the property can be sold to a third party. Franklin Templeton Investments'
interest in the portion of the Bay Meadows property covered by this lease
(including our interest as owner of the fee interest in the land) is collateral
for our obligations under the lease agreement, including our obligations to pay
the residual value guaranty. FRI has provided a guaranty of the obligations of
the subsidiary that signed the lease agreement, in a manner substantially
similar to the guaranty for our revolving line of credit agreements.





ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Franklin  Templeton  Investments   previously  reported  that  three  individual
plaintiffs,  James C.  Roumell,  Michael J. Wetta and Richard  Waksman,  filed a
consolidated  complaint in the U.S.  District Court for the Southern District of
Florida  against  Templeton  Vietnam  Opportunities  Fund,  Inc.  (now  known as
Templeton  Vietnam and Southeast Asia Fund,  Inc.);  Templeton Asset Management,
Ltd., an indirect  wholly-owned  subsidiary of FRI and the investment manager of
the closed-end investment company; certain of the fund's officers and directors;
FRI; and Templeton  Worldwide,  Inc., an FRI subsidiary.  The plaintiffs in that
action,  captioned In Re:  Templeton  Securities  Litigation  (Civil  Action No.
98-6059),  moved to certify a class with respect to certain claims raised in the
consolidated complaint. The court has not ruled on the motion to certify a
class.

Other than as stated above, there have been no material developments in this
litigation during the past fiscal year.

Franklin Templeton Investments is involved from time to time in litigation
relating to claims arising in the normal course of business. Management is of
the opinion that the ultimate resolution of such claims will not materially
affect Franklin Templeton Investments' business or financial position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

INFORMATION ABOUT FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTMENTS' COMMON STOCK

FRI's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. under the ticker symbol BEN and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker symbol FKR. On September 30, 2000, the closing price of FRI's
common stock on the NYSE was $44.43 per share. At December 1, 2000, there were
approximately 4,900 shareholders of record. Based on nominee solicitation, we
believe that there are approximately 25,000 beneficial shareholders whose
shares are held in street name.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for FRI's common
stock on the NYSE. See Note 16 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.


                                  2000 FISCAL YEAR           1999 FISCAL YEAR
                                  ----------------           ----------------
QUARTER                            HIGH         LOW          HIGH          LOW
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
October-December                  35.00        27.44         45.62        26.50
January-March                     39.19        24.63         38.38        27.00
April-June                        36.25        28.19         45.00        27.12
July-September                    45.63        30.00         43.44        29.75


Franklin Templeton Investments declared dividends of $0.24 per share in fiscal
2000 and $0.22 per share in fiscal 1999. Franklin Templeton Investments expects
to continue paying dividends on a quarterly basis to common stockholders
depending upon earnings and other relevant factors.






ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

in millions, except assets under
management and per share amounts

AS OF AND FOR THE
YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30,       2000      1999      1998      1997     1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS

  Operating revenues        $2,340.1  $2,262.5  $2,577.3  $2,163.3 $1,519.5
  Net income                   562.1     426.7     500.5     434.1    314.7
FINANCIAL DATA
  Total assets               4,042.4   3,666.8   3,480.0   3,095.2  2,374.2
  Long-term debt               294.1     294.3     494.5     493.2    399.5
  Stockholders' equity       2,965.5   2,657.0   2,280.8   1,854.2  1,400.6
  Operating cash flow          701.7     584.5     693.7     428.5    359.6

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
in billions
   Period ending               229.9     218.1     208.6     226.0    151.6
   Simple monthly average      227.7     219.8     226.9     192.0    141.1
PER COMMON SHARE
  Earnings
   Basic                        2.28      1.69      1.98      1.72     1.30
   Diluted                      2.28      1.69      1.98      1.71     1.25
  Cash dividends                0.24      0.22      0.20      0.17     0.15
  Book value                   12.17     10.59      9.06      7.36     5.82


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
In this  section,  we  discuss  our  results  of  operations  and our  financial
condition.  We also make some statements relating to the future which are called
"forward-looking" statements. Although we do our best to make clear and accurate
forward-looking   statements,   the  actual   results  and  outcomes   could  be




significantly  different from those that we discuss in this  document.  For this
reason, you should not rely too heavily on these forward-looking  statements. We
encourage you to read the "Risk Factors"  section below,  where we discuss these
statements in more detail.

GENERAL
The majority of our operating revenues, operating expenses and net income are
derived from providing investment advisory and related services to retail mutual
funds, institutional and private accounts, and other investment products. This
is our primary business activity and operating segment. The mutual funds and
other products that we advise, collectively called our sponsored investment
products, are distributed to the public via three main brand names:

o Franklin
o Templeton
o Mutual Series

Our sponsored investment products include a broad range of domestic and
global/international equity, balanced, fixed-income, sector and money market
mutual funds, as well as other investment products that meet a wide variety of
specific investment needs of individuals and institutions.

In fiscal 2001, we anticipate broadening our product lines with funds currently
offered by two companies. In October 2000, the acquisition of Bissett and
Associates Investment Management Ltd. ("Bissett"), added 12 funds to our
Canadian product line, primarily in the balanced and growth asset classes. It
also brought a number of institutional and private clients to the group. In
October 2000, we also announced the proposed acquisition of Fiduciary Trust
Company International ("Fiduciary"), a bank and trust the deposits of which are
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Fiduciary provides
investment management services to institutions and private clients, primarily in
the growth style. The acquisition is subject to approval by Fiduciary
shareholders and various governmental regulatory authorities, and if approved,
the acquisition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of fiscal
2001.

The level of our revenues is largely dependent upon the level and relative
composition of assets under management. To a lesser degree, our revenues are
also dependent on the level of mutual fund sales and the number of mutual fund
shareholder accounts. The fees charged for our services are based on contracts
between our subsidiary entities and our sponsored investment products or our
clients. These arrangements could change in the future.

Our secondary business activity and operating segment is banking/finance. Our
banking/finance group offers consumer lending and selected retail banking
services to individuals.




Franklin Templeton Investments operates primarily in the United States, but we
also provide services and earn revenues in Canada, the Bahamas, Europe, Asia,
South America, Africa and Australia. The majority of these revenues and
associated expenses, however, are denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, our
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our revenues and expenses is not
material at this time. This situation may change in the future as our business
continues to grow outside the United States.

At September 30, 2000, we employed approximately 6,500 people in 29 countries,
serving customers on six different continents.



/1/ Investment management fees from approximately 60% of our assets under
management at September 30, 2000 are calculated using a daily average assets
under management figure.


Our assets under management at the end of fiscal 2000 were $229.9 billion, 5%
higher than the prior fiscal year end. The simple monthly average value of these
assets during fiscal 2000 was $227.7 billion as compared to $219.8 billion in
fiscal 1999, a 4% increase. As was evident in fiscal 1999, the change in the
simple monthly average assets under management is generally more indicative of
investment management fee revenue trends than the period end change year over
year. Equity assets comprised 66% of our ending assets under management at
September 30, 2000, as compared to 62% at the same time last year.




The change in our assets under management was as follows.

Assets Under Management
(in billions)



During fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, our sponsored investment products
experienced overall net cash outflows in contrast to the net cash inflows
experienced in fiscal 1998. Gross sales increased 24% in fiscal 2000 on average
across our sponsored investment products, but sales increases were strongest in
the equity products, which accounted for 62% of total sales during the fiscal
year. In fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, net outflows were offset by market
appreciation. In fiscal 1998, market depreciation, principally in the fourth
quarter, offset net inflows.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The table below presents the highlights of our operations for the last three
fiscal years.



/1/ EBITDA margin is earnings before interest, taxes on income, depreciation and
the amortization of intangibles divided by total revenues.


Net income and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2000 increased by 32% and
35%, respectively, principally as a result of increased investment management
fees from increased average assets under management and as a result of a
restructuring charge taken in fiscal 1999. Net income and diluted earnings per
share for fiscal 1999 decreased by 15%, principally as a result of the $58.5
million pretax restructuring charge in fiscal 1999 and decreased investment
management fee revenues.




The table below presents the percentage change in each category between fiscal
2000 and fiscal 1999 and between fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998.



SUMMARY
In fiscal 2000, total operating revenues increased 3% due primarily to increased
simple monthly average assets under management and shareholder servicing fee
increases. In fiscal 1999, operating revenues fell 12% from fiscal 1998 levels
as investment management and underwriting and distribution fees declined
consistent with decreases in the simple monthly average value of our assets
under management and sales volumes.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES
Investment management fees, the largest component of our operating revenues,
include both investment advisory and business management fees. These fees are
generally calculated under contractual arrangements with our sponsored
investment products as a percentage of the market value of assets under
management. Annual rates vary and generally decline as the average net assets of
the portfolios exceed certain threshold levels. In return for these fees, we
provide investment advisory, administrative and other management services.

Investment management fees increased 4% in fiscal 2000, primarily due to 4%
higher simple monthly average assets under management. Our effective investment
management fee rate remained relatively constant during the year at 0.61%;
however, future changes in the composition of assets under management could
affect our effective investment management fee rate. In fiscal 1999, investment
management fees decreased 5%, primarily due to 3% lower average simple assets
under management and a 2% shift in our asset mix towards lower-fee fixed-income
products.

UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION FEES
Underwriting commissions are earned from the sale of certain classes of mutual
funds that have a sales commission paid at the time of purchase. Distribution
fees are paid by our sponsored mutual funds in return for sales and marketing
efforts on their behalf. Distribution fees include 12b-1 plan fees that are
subject to maximum pay-out levels, based upon a percentage of the assets in each
fund. A significant portion of underwriting commissions and distribution fees
are paid to the brokers and other intermediaries who sell our sponsored
investment products to the investing public on our behalf. See the description
of underwriting and distribution expenses below.

Overall, underwriting and distribution fees decreased 1% in fiscal 2000, despite
a 24% increase in product sales. The decrease resulted from a decline in
commissionable sales year over year, which led to a 12% reduction in aggregate
sales commission revenues. Sales at reduced or zero commissions are offered on
certain classes of shares and for sales to shareholders or intermediaries that




exceed specified minimum amounts. Thus, as the mix of sales change, so will our
commission revenue. The decline in sales commission revenue was offset by an
increase in distribution fees during fiscal 2000. This increase was primarily
due to the increased simple monthly average assets under management.

Underwriting and distribution fees decreased 27% in fiscal 1999 primarily due to
reduced commission revenues from lower mutual fund sales and distribution fees
from the 3% decrease in simple average assets under management.

SHAREHOLDER SERVICING FEES
Shareholder servicing fees are generally fixed charges per shareholder account
that vary with the particular type of fund and the service being rendered,
although some funds are charged fees based on the level of assets under
management. Fees are received as compensation for providing transfer agency
services which include providing customer statements, transaction processing,
customer service and tax reporting. Current agreements with the sponsored
investment products provide that closed accounts in a given calendar year remain
billable through the second quarter of the following calendar year at a reduced
rate.

In fiscal 2000, shareholder servicing fees increased 14% over fiscal 1999. This
was due to increased fees from funds whose servicing fees are based on assets
under management and increases in the per account charge, partially offset by a
decrease in the average number of billable accounts for the fiscal year. In
fiscal 1999, shareholder servicing fees increased 15% over fiscal 1998 as a
result of a 2.0 million (24%) increase in average billable shareholder accounts,
a substantial portion of which were closed accounts, and an increase in the per
account charge.

OTHER, NET
Other, net consists primarily of revenues from our banking/finance operating
segment:

o operating revenues, consisting primarily of interest on loans outstanding and
  servicing income
o interest expense
o provision for loan losses

Other, net has remained relatively constant during the three-year period.
Securitization of a portion of the auto loan portfolio in March 2000 resulted in
a loss that was offset by revenues from the residual portfolio. Another
securitization is planned during fiscal 2001.

We have considered the potential impact of the effect on the banking/finance
segment of a 100 basis point (1%) movement in market interest rates and we do
not expect it would have a material impact on our operating revenues or
consolidated results of operations.






SUMMARY
In fiscal 2000, operating expenses decreased 3% primarily due to the
restructuring charge of fiscal 1999. In fiscal 1999, operating expenses fell 11%
principally due to reduced underwriting and distribution expenses offset by the
restructuring charge.





UNDERWRITING AND DISTRIBUTION
Underwriting and distribution includes sales commissions and distribution fees
paid to brokers and other third parties for selling, distributing and providing
ongoing services to investors in our sponsored investment products. During
fiscal 2000, underwriting and distribution expenses remained at 1999 levels.
Total sales increased in fiscal 2000 by 24%, but a significant number of those
additional sales were at a low or zero commission rate, resulting in a smaller
proportional increase in the commissions paid to intermediaries in fiscal 2000
compared to fiscal 1999. Distribution fees increased consistent with the growth
in simple monthly average assets under management which more than offset the
reduced commission expense.

During fiscal 1999, underwriting and distribution expenses decreased 26%,
consistent with the downward trend in underwriting and distribution revenues.

COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
Compensation and benefits increased 4% in fiscal 2000, primarily due to annual
salary increases awarded in October 1999 and market adjustments awarded
throughout fiscal 2000 for certain employees, partially offset by a 14% decrease
in the average employee headcount during fiscal 2000 as compared to fiscal 1999.
The number of employees at September 30, 2000 was approximately 6,500 as
compared to the approximately 6,700 at the same time last year. In order to hire
and retain our key employees in the current low unemployment labor market, we
are committed to keeping our salaries and benefit packages competitive, which
means that the level of compensation and benefits may increase more quickly than
our revenues. Compensation and benefits decreased 7% in fiscal 1999, primarily
due to a reduction in the overall number of employees following the
restructuring plan of fiscal 1999 and decreased temporary labor costs and
employee overtime.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGY AND OCCUPANCY
Information systems, technology and occupancy costs increased 1% in fiscal 2000.
This increase is not indicative of the actual increase in technology expenses,
as we have significantly increased our expenditure on technology intiatives in
fiscal 2000. However, that increase was offset by a decrease in Year 2000
expenses and increased capitalization of technology costs following the adoption
of a new accounting rule. During the past year, we embarked on a number of
significant system upgrades, successfully transitioned to the Year 2000, and
developed e-business strategies to improve our service levels, work environment
and productivity. We expect that such major system undertakings will continue to
have an impact on our overall expenditures through fiscal 2001 and beyond. In
addition, during fiscal 2000, we incurred slightly higher occupancy costs
related to our site consolidation efforts, new facilities and the pending
relocation to our San Mateo worldwide headquarters. We capitalized information
systems and technology costs of $70.5 million, $45.4 million and $101.2 million
during fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Information systems, technology
and occupancy costs increased 17% in fiscal 1999 as compared to fiscal 1998,
primarily as a result of Year 2000 planning, remediation and testing
expenditures.




ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION
Advertising and promotion expenses decreased 4% in fiscal 2000. We initiated a
number of campaigns to increase the visibility of our three major Franklin
Templeton Investments brand names: Franklin, Templeton and Mutual Series. This
increased expenditure was partially offset by cost efficiencies associated with
printing and marketing material production expenditures. In fiscal 1999, we
reduced expenditures on media advertising and reduced other promotional
activities in line with our general restructuring efforts.

AMORTIZATION OF DEFERRED SALES COMMISSIONS
Amortization of deferred sales commissions decreased 13% in fiscal 2000 and 9%
in fiscal 1999, principally as a result of lower class C sales in the U.S.
Certain fund classes, namely classes B and C, are sold without a front-end sales
charge to shareholders, while, at the same time, our distribution subsidiaries
pay a commission to selling brokers and other intermediaries. Similarly, class A
shares are sold without a front-end sales charge to shareholders when certain
minimum investment criteria are met, yet our U.S. distribution subsidiaries pay
a commission on the sale. We have arranged to sell certain deferred commission
assets ("DCA") arising from our U.S. operations to Lightning Finance Company
Limited, ("LFL"). DCA that remains on our books, principally class A and C
shares, is capitalized and amortized. Our Canadian and European sponsored
investment products have arranged for financing of these sales commissions
directly with LFL. As a result of these arrangements, Canadian and European DCA
are not recorded in our financial statements. During the fiscal year, we sold or
financed sales commissions globally totaling $56.0 million to LFL, compared to
$69.3 million in fiscal 1999.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGE
During fiscal 1999, we recognized pretax restructuring charges of $58.4 million.
These charges were related to a plan announced and initiated by management in
the first quarter of fiscal 1999. We do not expect to incur any incremental
charges with respect to this plan. All of the $58.4 million total restructuring
charge was utilized at September 30, 2000. The anticipated lost revenues
associated with products discontinued in connection with such restructuring are
not expected to have a material impact on ongoing results of operations.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
Investment and other income is comprised primarily of:

o dividends from investments in our sponsored mutual funds
o interest income from investments in bonds and government securities
o realized gains and losses on investments
o foreign currency exchange gains and losses

Investment income increased 61% in fiscal 2000, due to higher average available
cash balances to invest, higher interest rates, and greater realized gains.
Realized gains of $8.2 million were included in other income related to the
$32.9 million gain on the sale of our headquarters building in San Mateo, which
is being recognized over the 12-month leaseback period. In fiscal 1999, higher
interest income was offset by lower dividend income and reduced realized gains
from the sale of investments.




Interest expense decreased 33% and 7% in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999,
respectively, following a reduction in our average outstanding debt.

TAXES ON INCOME
Our effective income tax rate for fiscal 2000 declined to 24% on an annual basis
compared to 26% in fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998. The effective tax rate will
continue to be reflective of the relative contributions of foreign earnings that
are subject to reduced tax rates and that are not currently included in U.S.
taxable income.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
At September 30, 2000, we had $746.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, as
compared to $819.2 million at September 30, 1999. Liquid assets, which consist
of cash and cash equivalents, investments available-for-sale and current
receivables increased to $1,677.1 million at September 30, 2000 from $1,490.1
million at September 30, 1999. At September 30, 2000, approximately $643.4
million was available to Franklin Templeton Investments under unused commercial
paper and medium-term note programs. Revolving credit facilities at September
30, 2000 totaled $550 million, of which $250 million was available under a
364-day facility. The remaining $300 million facility will expire in May 2003.

Cash provided by operating activities increased to $701.7 million in fiscal 2000
from $584.5 million in fiscal 1999. This increase was due mainly to higher net
income resulting from lower operating expenses, increased revenues and a reduced
effective tax rate. In fiscal 2000, we purchased $254.1 million of investments,
net of sales; invested net cash of $77.4 million in the banking/finance segment;
and used $108.4 million to purchase property and equipment, using a total of
$435.8 million in investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities
during the year was $339.1 million, compared to $348.6 million in 1999. We used
approximately $250.0 million in cash to purchase 8.4 million shares of common
stock and paid approximately $58.0 million in dividends.

Outstanding  debt declined to $362.9 million at September 30, 2000,  compared to
$403.2 million at September 30, 1999. Debt primarily consisted of fixed-interest
medium-term  notes and commercial paper that carried interest at variable rates.
As described in Note 7 in Notes to the financial  statements,  we participate in
the  financial  derivatives  markets  solely to manage our  exposure to variable
interest-rate  fluctuations  on a  portion  of  commercial  paper.  Our  overall
weighted average  interest rate on outstanding  commercial paper and medium-term
notes  was 6.5%  and  6.2%,  at  September  30,  2000 and  September  30,  1999,
respectively.  Through our current interest-rate swap agreements and medium-term
note  program  we  have  fixed  the  rates  of  interest  we  pay  on 49% of our
outstanding  debt.  Interest-rate  swaps of $90 million matured in October 2000.
Medium-term notes of $60 million mature in March 2001. Other fixed-rate debt has
various maturity dates through October 2003.

We have entered into a series of agreements to finance the construction of a new
corporate headquarters on a 32-acre site in San Mateo, California. An
owner-lessor trust has been set up to finance the construction and lease the
completed facility. The construction is substantially on target and we expect to




move into our new headquarters in the summer of 2001. The lease agreements are
not expected to impact our cash flows or financial condition materially during
the initial five-year lease period.

We have arranged with LFL for non-recourse financing of sales commissions
related to our class B shares globally. We are currently negotiating with LFL to
purchase the DCA related to class C shares in fiscal 2001. At September 30,
2000, the cumulative sales commissions advanced by us which we have sold to or
financed through LFL approximated $215.6 million.

We expect that the principal uses of cash will be to increase assets under
management through expansion, make strategic acquisitions, fund property and
equipment acquisitions, enhance our technology infrastructure, improve our
business processes, pay shareholder dividends and repay and service debt. We
expect to finance future increases in investment in our banking/finance
activities through operating cash flows, debt, or the securitization of a
portion of the receivables from consumer lending activities. We believe that our
existing liquid assets, together with the expected continuing cash flow from
operations, our borrowing capacity under current credit facilities, our sales
commission financing arrangement and our ability to issue stock will be
sufficient to meet our present and reasonably foreseeable operating cash needs.

RISK FACTORS
"FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS." When used in this Annual Report, words or phrases
about the future such as "expected to," "will continue," "anticipates,"
"estimates," or similar expressions are "forward-looking statements" as defined
in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements about key
employee compensation; financing construction of our new corporate headquarters;
financing up front sales commissions paid; the acquisition of Fiduciary; our
future cash needs and the expected sources of future cash inflows are also
"forward-looking statements." These types of statements are subject to certain
risks and uncertainties, such as the factors described in the risk factors
outlined below. These risks and uncertainties could cause our current
expectations and predictions in the forward-looking statements to be wrong.
Forward-looking statements are our best prediction at the time that they are
made, and you should not rely on them. Rather, you should read the
forward-looking statements in conjunction with the risk disclosures in this
Annual Report. If a circumstance occurs that causes any of our forward-looking
statements to be inaccurate, we have no obligation to publicly announce the
change in our expectations, or to revise the forward-looking statements.

WE FACE STRONG  COMPETITION  FROM NUMEROUS AND SOMETIMES  LARGER  COMPANIES.  We
compete  with  numerous  investment   management   companies,   stock  brokerage
investment  banking  firms,  insurance  companies,  banks,  online and  Internet
investment   sites,   savings  and  loan   associations   and  other   financial
institutions. These companies also offer financial services and other investment
alternatives.  Recent  consolidation  in the  financial  services  industry  has
created  stronger  competitors  with  greater  financial  resources  and broader
distribution channels than our own. In addition, the online services that we may
offer may fail to compete  effectively  with  other  alternatives  available  to
investors.  To the extent that existing or potential  customers decide to invest
with our competitors, our market share, revenues and net income could decline.



COMPETING SECURITIES DEALERS AND BANKS COULD RESTRICT SALES OF OUR FUNDS. Many
of the securities dealers on whom we rely to sell and distribute Franklin,
Templeton and Mutual Series fund shares also have mutual funds under their own
names that compete directly with our products. The banking industry also
continues to expand its sponsorship of proprietary funds. These firms or banks
could decide to limit or restrict the sale of our fund shares, which could lower
our future sales and cause our revenues to decline.

CHANGES  IN THE  DISTRIBUTION  CHANNELS  ON WHICH WE  DEPEND  COULD  REDUCE  OUR
REVENUES  AND  HINDER OUR  GROWTH.  We derive  nearly  all of our sales  through
broker/dealers and other similar investment advisors.  Increasing competition in
these distribution  channels has caused our distribution costs to rise and could
cause further increases in the future.  Higher  distribution costs lower our net
revenues and earnings.  Additionally, if one of the major financial advisors who
distributes our products were to cease operations, even for a few days, it could
have a significant  adverse impact on our revenues and earnings.  Moreover,  our
failure to maintain  strong  business  relationships  with these  advisors would
impair our  ability to  distribute  and sell our  products,  which  would have a
negative effect on our level of assets under  management,  related  revenues and
overall business and financial condition.

NEW SHARE CLASSES THAT WE HAVE INTRODUCED YIELD LOWER REVENUES AND HAVE REDUCED
OPERATING MARGINS. Although we receive reduced or no sales charge at the time of
initial investments in our class A shares that are related to tax deferred plans
and involve sales of more than $1 million, and in our class B shares and C
shares, we must nonetheless pay the related dealer commission. In addition, due
to industry competition, the dealer commissions that we pay on these types of
shares are now higher than in the past and may increase in the future. This
could have a negative effect on our liquidity and operating margins.

IF OUR ASSET MIX SHIFTS TO PREDOMINANTLY FIXED-INCOME PRODUCTS, OUR REVENUES
COULD DECLINE. We derive higher fee revenues and income from the equity assets
that we manage. Changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix
towards fixed-income products and a decline in our income and revenue.

WE HAVE BECOME SUBJECT TO AN INCREASED RISK OF ASSET VOLATILITY FROM CHANGES IN
THE GLOBAL EQUITY MARKETS. As our asset mix has shifted since 1992 from
predominantly fixed-income to a majority of equity assets, we have become
subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in global equity
markets. Declines in these markets have caused in the past, and would cause in
the future, a decline in our income and revenue.

THE LEVELS OF OUR ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT
FLUCTUATIONS. Global economic conditions, interest rates, inflation rates and
other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values, and
levels of our assets under management. Fluctuations in interest rates and in the
yield curve affect the value of fixed-income assets under management as well as
the flow of funds to and from fixed-income funds. In turn, this affects our




asset management revenues from those assets. Similarly, changes in the equity
marketplace may significantly affect the level of our assets under management.
The factors above often have opposite effects on equity funds and fixed-income
funds, making it difficult for us to predict the net effect of any particular
set of conditions on our business and to devise effective strategies to
counteract those conditions.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CONDUCTING OPERATIONS IN NUMEROUS FOREIGN
COUNTRIES. We sell mutual funds and offer investment advisory and related
services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend
to continue to expand our operations internationally. Regulators in these
jurisdictions could change their policies or laws in a manner that might
restrict or otherwise impede our ability to distribute or register investment
products in their respective markets, which could force us to revise our
business strategy.

GENERAL ECONOMIC AND SECURITIES MARKETS FLUCTUATIONS MAY REDUCE OUR SALES AND
MARKET SHARE. Adverse general securities market conditions, increased market
volatility, currency fluctuations, governmental regulations and recessionary
global economic conditions could reduce our mutual fund share sales and other
financial services products sales. Increased and unusual market volatility and
high valuations in the technology sector and many "new economy" stocks could
also reduce our mutual fund share sales to the extent that customers decided to
shift to predominately fixed-income products. Similarly, our securitized
consumer receivables business is subject to marketplace fluctuation. General
economic and credit market downturns could reduce the ability of our customers
to repay loans, which could cause our consumer loan portfolio losses to
increase.

OUR INABILITY TO MEET CASH NEEDS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS. Our ability to meet anticipated cash needs
depends upon factors including our asset value, our creditworthiness as
perceived by lenders and the market value of our stock. Similarly, our ability
to securitize and hedge future portfolios of auto loan and credit card
receivables, and to obtain continued financing for class B shares, is also
subject to the market's perception of those assets, finance rates offered by
competitors, and the general market for private debt. If we are unable, for any
reason, to obtain these funds and financing, we may be forced to incur
unanticipated costs or revise our business plan.

WE FACE INCREASED COMPETITION IN HIRING AND RETAINING QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES. Our
continued success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel. Competition to hire these employees has increased, particularly in
certain geographic locations where the majority of our workforce is employed. We
may be forced to offer compensation and benefits to these employees at a level
that exceeds inflation. With historically low unemployment in the United States,
qualified personnel are now moving between firms and starting their own
companies with greater frequency. If we are not able to attract and retain
qualified employees, our overall business condition and revenues could suffer.

OUR EMERGING MARKET PORTFOLIOS AND RELATED REVENUES ARE VULNERABLE TO POLITICAL
AND ECONOMIC RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EMERGING MARKETS. Our emerging market
portfolios and revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to
significant risks of loss from political and diplomatic developments, currency
fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental polices,




expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation
related to foreign ownership. Foreign trading markets, particularly in some
emerging market countries are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and
significantly more volatile than the U.S. and other established markets.

DIVERSE AND STRONG COMPETITION LIMITS THE INTEREST RATES THAT WE CAN CHARGE ON
CONSUMER LOANS. We compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans,
including the finance subsidiaries of large automobile manufacturers. Some of
these competitors can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates
in connection with automobile sales. Our inability to compete effectively
against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various
automobile dealers through which we offer consumer loans could harm the growth
of our consumer loan business.

RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE POOLING OF INTERESTS COMBINATION WITH FIDUCIARY
THE TRANSACTION IS SUBJECT TO REGULATORY AND SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. Our Agreement
and Plan of Share Acquisition with Fiduciary is subject to the approval of the
share exchange by various governmental and regulatory agencies. The share
exchange is also subject to the approval of the shareholders of Fiduciary. There
is no assurance that all the necessary approvals will be obtained.

WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO A SUBSTANTIAL TERMINATION FEE IF WE CANCEL THE TRANSACTION.
The Agreement and Plan of Acquisition requires us to pay a termination fee of
$25 million if, under certain circumstances, the Agreement and Plan of
Acquisition is terminated.

THE COMBINED BUSINESSES MAY NOT BE FULLY OR SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATED. The success
of the pooling of interests combination of Franklin Templeton Investments and
Fiduciary depends in large part on the ability of the businesses of each company
to be integrated fully and successfully. The revenue synergies and cost savings
from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to achieve
than anticipated. Delays and/or disruptions arising from and during the
integration and transition in connection with the business combination could
make it more difficult for us and Fiduciary to attract and maintain business
relationships with clients, retain employees, expand and compete effectively.

FOLLOWING THE TRANSACTION, WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD
REGULATION. We expect to become a bank holding company and financial holding
company that will be subject to Federal Reserve Board regulation under the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956. Following the transaction, we and our subsidiaries
will be subject to certain banking regulations, including minimum capital
requirements. Additionally, prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board may be
required in order to effect a change in control of us.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

In the normal course of business, the financial position of Franklin Templeton
Investments is subjected to a variety of risks, including market risk associated
with interest rate movements. Franklin Templeton Investments is exposed to
changes in interest rates primarily in its debt transactions. Through its
interest-rate swap agreements and its medium-term note program Franklin
Templeton Investments has effectively fixed the rate of interest it pays on 49%
of its debt outstanding at September 30, 2000. As a result, Franklin Templeton
Investments does not believe that the effect of reasonably possible near-term
changes in interest rates on Franklin Templeton Investments' financial position,
results of operations or cash flow would be material.

We have considered the potential impact of the effect on the banking/finance
segment of a 100 basis point (1%) movement in market interest rates and we do
not expect it would have a material impact on our operating revenues or results
of operations.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Index of Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended September 30,
2000, 1999 and 1998.





CONTENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

                                                                      Page

Consolidated Statements of Income
   for the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999, and 1998

Consolidated Balance Sheets
   as of September 30, 2000 and 1999

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
   and Comprehensive Income
   as of and for the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999, and 1998

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
   for the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999, and 1998

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Accountants


All schedules have been omitted as the information is provided in the financial
statements or in related notes thereto or is not required to be filed as the
information is not applicable.





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(in thousands, except per share data)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(in thousands)


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.





 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Franklin Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Franklin Templeton
Investments") derive substantially all of their revenues and net income from
providing investment management, administration, distribution and related
services to the Franklin, Templeton and Mutual Series funds, institutional and
private accounts and other investment products (our "Sponsored Investment
Products"). Our primary business is in the United States but we also operate in
Canada, the Bahamas, Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and Australia under
various rules and regulations set forth from time to time by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, individual state agencies and foreign governments. Services
to our Sponsored Investment Products are provided under contracts that set forth
the fees to be charged for these services. The majority of these contracts are
subject to periodic review and approval by each Mutual Fund's Board of
Directors/Trustees and/or its shareholders. Currently, no one Sponsored
Investment Product's revenues represent more than 10% of total revenues. Our
revenues are largely dependent on the total value and composition of assets
under management, which include domestic and global/international equity and
debt portfolios. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the
composition of assets under management impact our revenues and operating
results.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that require us to
estimate certain amounts. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates.
Certain 1998 amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Franklin
Resources, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated except the intercompany payable
from the banking/finance group to the parent to fund auto and credit card loans.
Operating revenues of the banking/finance group are included in Other, net and
are presented net of related interest expense and the provision for loan losses.
Accordingly, reported interest expense excludes interest expense attributable to
the banking/finance group.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, debt
instruments with original maturities of three months or less and other highly
liquid investments, including money market funds, which are readily convertible
into cash.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE are carried at fair value. Fair values
for investments in our sponsored investment products are based on the last
reported net asset value. Fair values for other investments are based on the
last reported price on the exchange on which they are traded. Realized gains and
losses are included in investment income currently based on specific
identification. Unrealized gains and losses are recorded net of tax as part of
Accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.

DERIVATIVES. Franklin Templeton Investments does not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes. We enter into interest-rate swap
agreements to reduce variable interest-rate exposure with respect to our
commercial paper. Under these contracts Franklin Templeton Investments agrees to




exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed- and
variable-interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional
principal amount. The interest-rate differential between the fixed pay-rate and
the variable receive-rate is reflected as an adjustment to interest expense over
the life of the swaps. Interest-rate swaps are carried at an estimate of their
termination costs.

Unrealized gains and losses on these instruments are recorded net of tax as a
part of Accumulated other comprehensive income. These unrealized gains and
losses would be recognized only on early termination of the agreements. We have
not, and do not intend to, terminate these agreements prior to their normal
expiration.

LOANS RECEIVABLE. We accrue interest on auto installment loans principally using
the rule of 78s method. If interest had been recorded using the interest method,
revenues would not be materially different from those presented. Interest on all
other loans is accrued using the simple interest method. An allowance for loan
losses is established monthly based on historical experience, including
delinquency and loss trends. Securitized loans and the associated allowance for
loan losses are excluded from the balance sheet and the associated interest
revenues and provision for loan losses are excluded from our results of
operations. A loan is charged to the allowance for loan losses when it is deemed
to be uncollectible, taking into consideration the value of the collateral, the
financial condition of the borrower and other factors. Recoveries on loans
previously charged off as uncollectible are credited to the allowance for loan
losses.

DEFERRED SALES COMMISSIONS. Sales commissions paid to brokers and other
investment advisors in connection with the sale of shares of our mutual funds
sold without a front-end sales charge are capitalized and amortized over periods
not exceeding six years - the periods in which we estimate that they will be
recovered from distribution plan payments and from contingent deferred sales
charges.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT are recorded at cost and are depreciated on the
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Expenditures for repairs
and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. Leasehold improvements are
amortized on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPED FOR INTERNAL USE. Certain internal and external costs
incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use
are capitalized in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants' Statement of Position No.98-1 "Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." These capitalized costs are
included in Property and Equipment, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and
are amortized when the software project is complete, over the estimated useful
life of the software that was put into production.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS, consisting principally of the estimated value of mutual fund
management contracts and goodwill resulting from our acquisition of the assets
of Templeton, Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and Heine Securities Corporation, are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over various lives ranging from five to
40 years. We have evaluated the potential impairment of our intangible assets on

the basis of the expected future undiscounted operating cash flows without
interest charges to be derived from these assets in relation to the carrying
values and determined that there is no impairment. At some future period, if
such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of these assets cannot be
recovered using this test, the assets will be adjusted to their fair values.

RECOGNITION OF REVENUES. Investment management fees, shareholder servicing fees,
investment income and distribution fees are all recognized as earned.
Underwriting commissions related to the sale of shares of our sponsored
investment products are recorded on the trade date.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION. We expense costs of advertising and promotion as
incurred.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are
translated at current exchange rates as of the end of the accounting period, and
related revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect
during the period. Net exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are
excluded from income and are recorded as part of Accumulated other comprehensive
income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are reflected in income
currently.




STOCK SPLIT. All common shares and per share amounts have been adjusted to give
retroactive effect to a two-for-one stock split in January 1998.

DIVIDENDS. During the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, we declared
dividends to common stockholders of $0.24, $0.22 and $0.20 per share,
respectively.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION. As allowed under the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("FAS 123"), we have elected to apply Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related
interpretations in accounting for our stock-based plans. Accordingly, no
compensation costs are recognized with respect to stock options granted, or with
respect to shares issued under the Employee Stock Investment Plan. Compensation
expense is recognized for the matching contribution that we may elect to make in
connection with the Employee Stock Investment Plan over the 18-month holding
period and for the full cost of restricted stock grants in the year that they
are earned.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME. Total comprehensive income is reported in the consolidated
statements of stockholders equity and includes net income and unrealized gains
on investment securities available-for-sale, net of income taxes.

The changes in net unrealized gains (losses) on investments include
reclassification adjustments relating to the net realized gains on investment
sales of $9.9 million, $0.1 million and $6.1 million during fiscal 2000, 1999
and 1998, respectively. The tax effect of the change in unrealized gains
(losses) on investments was $7.1 million, $4.8 million and $(8.4) million during
fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

EARNINGS PER SHARE. Earnings per share were computed as follows:

(in thousands except per share amounts)







NOTE 2 - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
Investment securities, available-for-sale at September 30, 2000 and 1999,
consisted of the following:



At September 30, 2000, substantially all of our debt securities mature within
one year.

NOTE 3 - Banking/Finance Group Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses
The banking/finance segment's loans receivable primarily consist of auto loan
and credit card receivables from individuals that are collectively described
below as installment loans. Changes in these loans and in the associated
allowance for loan losses during 2000 and 1999 are shown in the following
tables.



For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the interest
expense of the banking/finance segment included in other operating revenues, net
was $11.4 million, $9.7 million and $17.8 million, respectively.





The following table presents delinquency and loss information for fiscal 2000,
1999 and 1998.






NOTE 6 - SEGMENT INFORMATION
We have two operating segments: investment management and banking/finance. The
investment management segment derives substantially all of its revenues and net
income from providing investment advisory, fund administration, distribution and
related services to our sponsored investment products. The banking/finance
segment offers consumer lending and selected retail banking services to
individuals.

Financial information for our two operating segments for the years ended
September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is presented in the table below. Operating
revenues of the banking/finance segment are reported net of interest expense.
See Note 3.









We have revolving credit agreements with a group of commercial banks that will
allow us, at our option, to refinance commercial paper borrowings through May
2003. In accordance with our intention and ability to refinance these
obligations on a long-term basis, all of our commercial paper borrowings at
September 30, 2000 were classified long-term. The credit agreements include
various restrictive covenants, including: a capitalization ratio, interest
coverage ratio, minimum working capital and limitation on additional debt. We
were in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2000. At September 30,
2000, amounts available for issuance under the commercial paper program were
$293.4 million.

At September 30, 2000, we held interest-rate swap agreements maturing through
October 2000, which effectively fixed interest rates on $90 million of
commercial paper. Our primary objective of holding these swap agreements is to




hedge volatility in interest rates on our commercial paper. These financial
instruments are placed with major financial institutions. The creditworthiness
of the counterparties is subject to continuous review and full performance is
anticipated. Any potential loss from failure of the counterparties to perform is
deemed to be immaterial.

During 2000, $100 million of medium-term notes at an average interest rate of
6.08% were retired at maturity. The interest rate on all of our outstanding
notes at September 30, 2000 was 6.56%. These notes mature in March 2001. At
September 30, 2000, the amount available for issuance under our medium-term note
program was $350 million.

NOTE 8 - INVESTMENT INCOME


Included in income before taxes was $446.0 million, $356.9 million and $387.5
million of foreign income for the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.






The major components of the net deferred tax liability/asset as of September 30,
2000 and 1999 were as follows:


At September 30, 2000, there were approximately $44 million of foreign net
operating loss carry-forwards, approximately $36 million of which expire between
2001 and 2008 with the remaining carry-forwards having an indefinite life. In
addition, there are approximately $525 million in state net operating loss
carry-forwards that expire between 2008 and 2020. A valuation allowance has been
recognized to offset the related deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of
realizing the benefit of the loss carry-forwards.

We have made no provision for U.S. taxes on $1,431 million of cumulative
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be reinvested for an indefinite period of time. Determination of the potential
amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability related to such
reinvested income is not practicable because of the numerous assumptions
associated with this hypothetical calculation; however, foreign tax credits
would be available to reduce some portion of this amount.





The following is a reconciliation between the amount of tax expense at the
federal statutory rate and taxes on income as reflected in operations for the
years ended September 30, 2000, 1999 and 1998:


NOTE 10 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
We lease office space and equipment under long-term operating leases expiring at
various dates through fiscal year 2017. Lease expense aggregated $43.1 million,
$38.7 million and $37.2 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable
operating leases are not material.

We have entered into an operating lease for the construction of our new
corporate headquarters in San Mateo, California. In connection with this lease,
we are contingently liable under residual guarantees, for approximately $145
million, representing approximately 85% of the estimated total construction
costs of $170 million.

At September 30, 2000, the banking/finance segment had commitments to extend
credit aggregating $242.2 million, principally under its credit card lines.

We are involved in various claims and legal proceedings that are considered
normal in our business. While it is not feasible to predict or determine the
final outcome of these proceedings, we do not believe that they should have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.

In connection with the acquisition of Heine Securities Corporation in November
1996, we agreed to make contingent payments ranging from $96.25 to $192.5
million if certain agreed-upon growth targets are met. Agreed-upon growth
targets range from 12.5% to 17.5% of management fee revenues over a five-year
period from the date of the acquisition. We made the first contingent payment of
$64.2 million in 1998 and accounted for that payment as goodwill related to
additional purchase price of the acquisition. No payments were made in fiscal
1999 or 2000. A final payment is due in November 2001 if growth targets are met.

NOTE 11 - EMPLOYEE STOCK AWARD AND OPTION PLANS
Franklin Templeton  Investments sponsors two universal stock plans and an Annual
Incentive  Compensation Plan ("AICP").  Under the terms of these plans, eligible
employees  may  receive  cash and  stock  awards.  Under  the terms of the AICP,
restricted stock awards are based on our pretax operating income.  The universal
stock plans  provide for the  issuance of up to 16 million  shares of the common
stock for various stock-related awards,  including those related to the AICP. As
of  September  30,  2000,  we had  approximately  6.9 million  shares  remaining
available for grant under the universal stock plans,  including those related to
the AICP. In addition to the annual award of stock under the plans, we may award
options  and other  forms of  stock-based  compensation  to  certain  employees.
Currently,  only  restricted  stock and stock  options  have been  granted.  The
Compensation  Committee  of the  Board of  Directors  determines  the  terms and
conditions of awards under the plans.  Total  compensation  cost  recognized for
stock-based  compensation  during fiscal 2000,  1999 and 1998 was $28.9 million,
$37.9 million and $30.3 million, respectively.


Information regarding stock options is as follows:

The range of exercise prices for these options at September 30, 2000, was from
$28.19 to $47.16. Of these, 82% were exercisable at prices ranging from $29.61
to $33.25. The weighted-average remaining contractual life for the options was
five years.

If we had determined compensation costs for our stock option plans and our
Employee Stock Investment Plan (See Note 12) based upon fair values at the grant
dates in accordance with the provisions of FAS 123, our net income and earnings
per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below. For
pro forma purposes, the estimated fair value of options is amortized to expense
over the options' vesting period.





The weighted-average estimated fair value of options granted on the date of
grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model was as follows:


NOTE 12 - EMPLOYEE STOCK INVESTMENT PLAN
We have a qualified, non-compensatory Employee Stock Investment Plan ("ESIP")
which allows participants who meet certain eligibility criteria to purchase
shares of our common stock at 90% of their market value on certain defined
dates. The ESIP is open to substantially all employees of U.S. subsidiaries and
certain employees of non-U.S. subsidiaries. Participants made their first
purchase of stock under this plan effective as of July 31, 1998. Our
stockholders approved 4 million shares of common stock for issuance under the
ESIP. At September 30, 2000, approximately 651,000 shares had been purchased on
a cumulated basis under the ESIP at a weighted average price of $31.53.

In connection with the ESIP, we may provide matching grants to participants in
the ESIP of whole or partial shares of common stock. While reserving the right
to change such determination, we have initially indicated that we will provide
one half-share for each share held by a participant for a minimum period of 18
months. During 2000, we made our first matching grants and issued approximately
84,000 shares at an average market price of $35.52.

NOTE 13 - RESTRUCTURING
In December 1998, we adopted a restructuring plan estimated to cost
approximately $58.4 million and designed to reduce costs, improve service levels
and reprioritize our business activities. All of the total estimated charges
were utilized at September 30, 2000.

NOTE 14 - FAIR VALUES
The fair value of a financial instrument represents the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties,
other than in a forced sale or liquidation. The methods and assumptions used to
estimate fair values of our financial instruments are described below.

Due to the short-term nature and liquidity of Cash and cash equivalents and
Receivables, the carrying amounts of these assets in the consolidated balance
sheets approximated fair value.





Investment securities, available-for-sale are carried at fair market value as
required by generally accepted accounting principles. See Note 1.

Loans receivable,  net are valued using interest rates that consider the current
credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loans and the current economic and
lending conditions.  The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated
fair value.

Deposits of the banking/finance segment are valued using interest rates offered
by comparable institutions on deposits with similar remaining maturities. The
amounts in the consolidated balance sheets approximated fair value.

Interest-rate swap agreements that expire in October 2000 are carried at their
fair value of approximately zero as of September 30, 2000.

Debt is valued using publicly-traded debt with similar maturities, credit risk
and interest rates. The amounts in the consolidated balance sheet approximate
fair values.

NOTE 15 - ACQUISITIONS
On July 25, 2000, we purchased all of the remaining outstanding shares of a
Korean asset management company in which we formerly held a 44% interest. The
purchase price for the shares was approximately $20 million. Goodwill of $3.8
million with an estimated life of 20 years was created as a result of the
transaction.

On August 1, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Nedcor Investment Bank
Holdings, Ltd., a South African company, to form Franklin Templeton NIB Asset
Management ("FTNIB"). We contributed cash and other assets with a value of
approximately $27 million to the venture in return for a 50% ownership interest
in FTNIB. We are accounting for our investment using the equity method.

On October 2, 2000, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of
Bissett & Associates Investment Management Ltd., a Canadian asset management
company. The all-cash transaction was valued at approximately $95 million.
Intangible assets of approximately $89 million with lives ranging from 5-20
years were created as a result of the acquisition.

On October 25, 2000, we announced a definitive agreement with Fiduciary Trust
Company International (OTC: FCNY) ("Fiduciary"), under which Franklin Templeton
Investments will acquire Fiduciary in an all-stock transaction valued at
approximately $825 million. In addition to the purchase price, there is also
provision for an $85 million retention pool to cover various payments aimed at
retaining certain key employees of Fiduciary. The transaction, which is subject
to Fiduciary shareholder and regulatory approvals and other customary closing
conditions and costs, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of
fiscal 2001.







Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. under the ticker symbol BEN and the London Stock Exchange
under the ticker symbol FKR. On September 30, 2000, the closing price of our
common stock on the NYSE was $44.43 per share. At November 1, 2000, there were
approximately 4,800 stockholders of record.





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Franklin Resources, Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income
and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Franklin Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September
30, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2000,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these financial
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Francisco, California

October 25, 2000







ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

The following information on the executive officers of Franklin Templeton
Investments, including their principal occupations for the past five (5) years,
is given as of December 1, 2000.

JENNIFER J. BOLT
AGE 36

Vice President of FRI since June 1994; officer and/or director of other Company
subsidiaries; employed by FRI or subsidiaries in various other capacities for
more than the past six (6) years.

HARMON E. BURNS
AGE 55  DIRECTOR SINCE 1991

Vice Chairman and Director of FRI, formerly Executive Vice President and
director of the Company for more than the past six (6) years; officer and/or
director of many other Company subsidiaries; officer and/or director or trustee
of 52 of the investment companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.




MARTIN L. FLANAGAN
AGE 40

President, Member - Office of the President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Operating Officer of FRI; formerly Senior Vice President; Chief Financial
Officer of FRI since December 1995; officer and/or director of many other
Company subsidiaries; officer, director and/or trustee of 52 of the investment
companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.

BARBARA GREEN
AGE 53

Vice  President  and Deputy  General  Counsel of FRI since  January  2000;  Vice
President,  Franklin  Templeton  Companies,  Inc. since March 2000;  Senior Vice
President,  Templeton Worldwide, Inc.; officer of 53 of the investment companies
in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.

ALLEN J. GULA, JR.
AGE 46

President, Member - Office of the President, formerly Senior Vice President and
Chief Information Officer of FRI since September 1999; officer of two other
Company subsidiaries since August 1999. Previously, Executive Vice President and
Chief Technology Officer of KeyCorp, a bank holding company, from October 1998
to August 1999. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Key Services, a
subsidiary of KeyCorp, and Executive Vice President of KeyCorp from February
1994 to October 1998.

DONNA S. IKEDA
AGE 44

Vice President of FRI since October 1993. Previously employed by FRI from 1982
to 1990 as Director of Human Resources.

CHARLES B. JOHNSON
AGE 67
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and director of the Company;
officer and/or director of many other Company subsidiaries; officer and/or
director or trustee of 49 of the investment companies in the Franklin Templeton
group of funds.




CHARLES E. JOHNSON
AGE 44
DIRECTOR SINCE 1993

President, Member - Office of the President, and director of the Company;
formerly Senior Vice President and director of the Company for more than the
past five (5) years; officer and/or director of many other Company subsidiaries;
officer and/or director or trustee of 33 of the investment companies in the
Franklin Templeton group of funds.

GREGORY E. JOHNSON
AGE 39

President, Member - Office of the President; formerly Vice President of FRI for
more than the past five (5) years; officer of many other Company subsidiaries
and of one investment company in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.

RUPERT H. JOHNSON, JR.
AGE 60
DIRECTOR SINCE 1969

Vice Chairman, formerly Executive Vice President and director of the Company for
more than the past five (5) years; officer and/or director of many other Company
subsidiaries; officer and/or director or trustee of 52 of the investment
companies in the Franklin Templeton group of funds.

LESLIE M. KRATTER
AGE 55

Senior Vice President of FRI since January 2000 and Secretary since March 1998;
formerly Vice President of FRI since March 1993; officer of many other Company
subsidiaries.

KENNETH A. LEWIS
AGE 39

Vice President of FRI since September 1996; formerly Corporate Controller of
FRI; officer of many other Company subsidiaries. Prior to the Templeton
acquisition, employed by various Templeton entities since 1989.




WILLIAM J. LIPPMAN
AGE 75

Senior  Vice  President  of FRI since  March 1990;  officer  and/or  director or
trustee of other Company  subsidiaries and of six of the investment companies in
the  Franklin  Templeton  group of funds.  Until  June  1988,  President,  Chief
Executive  Officer  and  director  of L.F.  Rothschild  Fund  Management,  Inc.,
Director of L.F.  Rothschild Asset  Management,  Inc.,  Administrative  Managing
Director and director of L.F. Rothschild & Co., Incorporated.

CHARLES R. SIMS
AGE 39

Vice President of Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer of FRI since
June 2000; and Treasurer of FRI and various subsidiaries since September 1997;
and assistant treasurer of 53 of the investment companies in the Franklin
Templeton group of funds. Prior to September 1997, employed as Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Franklin Templeton Investments Corp. formerly
know as Templeton Management Limited. Employed by Franklin Templeton Investments
since 1989.

MURRAY L. SIMPSON
AGE 63

Executive Vice President and General Counsel of FRI since January 2000; Officer
of 53 of the investment companies of the Franklin Templeton group of funds.
Previously Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Templeton Franklin
Investment Services (Asia), Limited from 1994-2000.

Charles B. Johnson and Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. are brothers.  Peter M. Sacerdote,
a director  of FRI,  is a  brother-in-law  of Charles B.  Johnson  and Rupert H.
Johnson,  Jr. Charles E. Johnson is the son of Charles B. Johnson, the nephew of
Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote and the brother of Gregory E. Johnson
and  Jennifer  Bolt.  Gregory E. Johnson is the son of Charles B.  Johnson,  the
nephew of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote and the brother of Jennifer
Bolt and  Charles  E.  Johnson.  Jennifer  Bolt is the  daughter  of  Charles B.
Johnson,  the niece of Rupert H. Johnson, Jr. and Peter Sacerdote and the sister
of Charles E. Johnson and Gregory E. Johnson.




Information regarding the biographies of the directors of FRI and compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement section entitled "Proposal 1: Election of Directors."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement  section entitled  "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors."

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement section entitled "Principal
Holders of Voting Securities" and "Security Ownership of Management."

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement section entitled "Proposal 1:
Election of Directors - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."






                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)(1)  Please see the  index in Item 8 for a list of the financial statements
          filed as part of this report

     (2)  Please see the index in Item 8 for a list of the  financial  statement
          schedules filed as part of this report

     (3)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

          (3)(i)(a) Registrant's  Certificate of  Incorporation,  as filed
                    November  28,  1969, incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                    (3)(i) to the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal  year ended  September 30,  1994 (the  "1994  Annual
                    Report")

          (3)(i)(b) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed  March  1,  1985,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

          (3)(i)(c) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed  April  1,  1987,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

          (3)(i)(d) Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed February 2, 1994,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

           (3)(ii)  Registrant's   Amended  and  Restated   By-laws  adopted
                    December 10, 1999

     (4)  Indenture   between  the  Registrant  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank
          (formerly  Chemical  Bank),  as  trustee,  dated  as of May 19,  1994,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's  Registration
          Statement on Form S-3, filed on April 14, 1994

     10.1 Representative  Distribution  Plan between Templeton Growth Fund, Inc.
          and  Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,   Inc.  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1993 (the  "1993  Annual
          Report")




     10.2 Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
          Inc. and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc. incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report

     10.3 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Growth  Fund,   Inc.  and  Templeton,   Galbraith  &  Hansberger  Ltd.
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

     10.4 Representative  Management Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin
          Group  of Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
          September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

     10.5 Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan between  Distributors and the
          Franklin Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
          the 1992 Annual Report

     10.6 Amended Annual Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved January 24, 1995
          incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
          cover of Schedule  14A on December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

     10.7 Universal  Stock  Plan  approved  January  19,  1994  incorporated  by
          reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of
          Schedule  14A on  December  29,  1993 in  connection  with its  Annual
          Meeting of Stockholders held on January 19, 1994 *

     10.8 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Federal Tax-Free
          Income  Fund,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to  the
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
          June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

     10.9 Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal  Tax-Free  Income  Fund,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
          Report

    10.10 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Global  Strategy SICAV and Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995  Quarterly
          Report




    10.11 Representative    Sub-Distribution    Agreement   between   Templeton,
          Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.12 Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
          10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.13 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.14 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (NON-ERISA),  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.15 Representative  Amended and Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
          Services Agreement between Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc.
          and Franklin Custodian Funds,  Inc., dated July 1, 1995,  incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1995 (the "1995  Annual
          Report")

    10.16 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds,
          Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.17 to the 1995 Annual
          Report

    10.17 Representative  Class II Distribution Plan between  Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds,  Inc., on behalf of
          its Growth Series,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
          1995 Annual Report

    10.18 Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
          10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.19 Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales  Agreement for Accounts
          of  Bank  and  Trust  Company  Customers,   effective  July  1,  1995,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.20 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin Value Investors
          Trust,  on  behalf of  Franklin  MicroCap  Value  Fund,  and  Franklin
          Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995
          Annual Report





    10.21 Representative    Sub-Distribution    Agreement   between   Templeton,
          Galbraith &  Hansberger  Ltd.  and  Sub-Distributor,  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.22 Representative  Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between Templeton
          Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services (Asia)
          Limited,  dated  September  18,  1995,  incorporated  by  reference to
          Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.23 Representative      Shareholder     Services     Agreement     between
          Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc. and  Templeton  Franklin
          Investment   Services  (Asia)  Limited,   dated  September  18,  1995,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.24 Agreement to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
          Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin Resources, Inc., dated June
          25,  1996,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 2 to  Registrant's
          Report on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

    10.25 Subcontract  for  Transfer  Agency  and  Shareholder   Services  dated
          November 1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor  Services,  Inc. and
          PFPC Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's
          Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  September  30,
          1996 (the "1996 Annual Report")

    10.26 Representative  Sample of Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.
          Transfer Agent and  Shareholder  Services  Agreement,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.27 Representative   Administration  Agreement  between  Templeton  Growth
          Fund,  Inc. and Franklin  Templeton  Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.28 Representative  Sample of Fund Administration  Agreement with Franklin
          Templeton Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
          to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.29 Representative  Subcontract for Fund  Administrative  Services between
          Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Templeton  Services,   Inc.,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report




    10.30 Representative  Investment  Advisory Agreement between Franklin Mutual
          Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.31 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds
          and  Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to
          Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.32 Representative  Investment  Advisory  and Asset  Allocation  Agreement
          between   Franklin   Templeton  Fund  Allocator  Series  and  Franklin
          Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996
          Annual Report

    10.33 Representative   Management   Agreement   between  Franklin  New  York
          Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin  Investment Advisory Services,
          Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.33 to the 1996 Annual
          Report

    10.34 1998  Employee  Stock  Investment  Plan  approved  January  20,  1998,
          incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
          cover of Schedule  14A on December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 1998

    10.35 System  Development and Services Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
          by and between Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
          Shareholder Systems, Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
          to the 1997 Annual Report

    10.36 1998 Universal Stock  Incentive Plan approved  October 16, 1998 by the
          Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy
          Statement  filed under cover of Schedule  14A on December  23, 1998 in
          connection  with its  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to be held on
          January 28, 1999 *

    10.37 Amendment  No. 3 to the  Agreement  to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine
          Securities  Corporation,  Elmore  Securities  Corporation and Franklin
          Resources, Inc., dated December 17, 1997, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
          quarterly period ended December 31, 1997

    10.38 Representative  Agreement for the Supply of Investment  Management and
          Administration  Services,  dated  February  16,  1998,  by and between
          Templeton   Funds  and  Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1998




    10.39 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), as amended,  incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
          10-K/A for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1998 (the "1998 Annual
          Report")

    10.40 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment  Counsel,   Inc.  and  Client   (NON-ERISA),   as  amended,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the 1998 Annual Report

    10.41 Representative  Variable Insurance Fund Participation  Agreement among
          Templeton  Variable  Products Series Fund or Franklin  Valuemark Fund,
          Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,   Inc.  and  an  insurance  company
          incorporated  by reference  from Exhibit 10.1 to the form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended December 31, 1998

    10.42 Purchase  Agreement  between  Mariners  Island  Co-Tenancy and Keynote
          Systems,  Inc.  dated  April 25, 2000  incorporated  by  reference  to
          Exhibit  10 to the  Company's  Report  on Form  10-Q for the quarterly
          period ended June 30, 2000

    10.43 Acquisition  Agreement  dated July 26, 2000 among Franklin  Resources,
          Inc., FTI Acquisition and Bissett & Associates Investment  Management,
          Ltd.,  incorporated  by reference to  Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K
          dated August 1, 2000

    10.44 Agreement and Plan of Share  Acquisition  between Franklin  Resources,
          Inc. and Fiduciary Trust Company International dated October 25, 2000,
          incorporated  by  reference  to  Registrant's  Report  on  Form  8-K/A
          (Amendment No. 1) dated October 25, 2000 and filed on October 26, 2000

    10.45 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  among
          Templeton  Emerging  Markets  Fund,   Templeton  Canadian  Bond  Fund,
          Templeton  International  Stock Fund,  Templeton  Canadian Stock Fund,
          Templeton Global Smaller  Companies Fund,  Templeton Global Bond Fund,
          Templeton   Treasury  Bill  Fund,   Templeton  Global  Balanced  Fund,
          Templeton   International  Balanced  Fund,  Templeton  Canadian  Asset
          Allocation  Fund,  Mutual Beacon Fund,  Franklin U.S. Small Cap Growth
          Fund,  Templeton Balanced Fund, Templeton Growth Fund, Ltd., Templeton
          Management Limited and FEP Capital, L.P. dated December 31, 1998

    10.46 Representative   Purchase   and   Sales   Agreement   by   and   among
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc., Franklin Resources,  Inc. and
          Lightning Finance Company Limited dated August 1, 1999

    10.47 Representative  Advisory  Agreement  between Templeton Global Advisers
          Limited and Templeton Asset Management Limited dated December 21, 1999

    10.48 Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Commission  Paying  Agreement
          between  Templeton  Global Strategy Funds,  Templeton  Global Advisors
          Limited,  Templeton  Global  Strategic  Services  S.A.,  and Lightning
          Finance Company Limited dated January 31, 2000

    10.49 Representative  Variable Insurance Fund Participation  Agreement among
          Franklin   Templeton   Variable  Insurance  Products  Trust  (formerly
          Franklin Valuemark Funds),  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors, Inc. and
          CUNA Mutual Life Insurance Company dated May 1, 2000

    10.50 Stock Purchase  Agreement  between Good Morning  Securities  Co., Ltd.
          and Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc. dated June 29, 2000

    10.51 Agreement   entered  into  between  NEDCOR  Investment  Bank  Holdings
          limited,  NEDCOR  Investment  Bank Limited,  Templeton  International,
          inc.,  Franklin Templeton Asset Management  (Proprietary)  Limited and
          Templeton Global Advisors Limited dated August 1, 2000

    10.52 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin-Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin Growth and Income
          Fund dated August 10, 2000

     12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

     21   List of Subsidiaries

     23   Consent of Independent Accountants

     27   Financial Data Schedule

          * Compensatory Plan

  (b)(1)  Report on Form 8-K dated  July 11,  2000 was filed on July 13,  2000
          under Items 5 and 7

  (b)(2)  Report on Form 8-K dated  July 26,  2000 was filed on August 1, 2000
          under Items 5 and 7




  (b)(3)  Report on Form 8-K dated July 27, 2000 was filed on August 2, 2000
          attaching Registrant's press release dated July 27, 2000 under Items 5
          and 7

  (b)(4)  Report on Form 8-K dated and filed on October 25, 2000 under Items 5
          and 7

  (b)(5)  Report on Form 8-K/A  (Amendment  No. 1) dated  October 25, 2000 was
          filed on October 26, 2000 under Items 5 and 7

  (c)     See Item 14(a)(3) above

  (d)     No separate financial statements are required;  schedules are included
          in Item 8





SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

FRANKLIN RESOURCES, INC.

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                                    ----------------------
                                    Charles B. Johnson, Chairman, Chief
                                    Executive Officer, and Member-Office of the
                                    Chairman

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ CHARLES B. JOHNSON
                                    ----------------------
                                    Charles B. Johnson,
                                    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
                                    Member-Office of the Chairman, and Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ HARMON E. BURNS
                                    -------------------
                                    Harmon E. Burns,
                                    Vice Chairman, Member - Office of the
                                    Chairman, and Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ MARTIN L. FLANAGAN
                                    ----------------------
                                    Martin L. Flanagan,
                                    President, Member-Office of the President,
                                    and Chief Financial Officer

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ ALLEN J. GULA, JR.
                                    ----------------------
                                    Allen J. Gula, Jr.,
                                    President, and Member-Office of the
                                    President

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ CHARLES E. JOHNSON
                                    ----------------------
                                    Charles E. Johnson,
                                    President, Member-Office of the
                                    President, and Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ GREGORY E. JOHNSON
                                    ----------------------
                                    Gregory E. Johnson,
                                    President, and Member-Office of the
                                    President

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ RUPERT H. JOHNSON, JR.
                                    --------------------------
                                    Rupert H. Johnson, Jr.,
                                    Vice Chairman, Member - Office of
                                    the Chairman, and Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ HARRY O. KLINE
                                    ------------------
                                    Harry O. Kline, Director




Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ JAMES A. MCCARTHY
                                    ---------------------
                                    James A. McCarthy, Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ PETER M. SACERDOTE
                                    ----------------------
                                    Peter M. Sacerdote, Director

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ CHARLES R. SIMS
                                    -------------------
                                    Charles R. Sims, Vice President - Finance,
                                    Chief Accounting Officer, and Treasurer

Date:       December 7, 2000  By:   /S/ LOUIS E. WOODWORTH
                                    ----------------------
                                    Louis E. Woodworth, Director





Exhibits (other than 12, 21 and 23) deleted, but filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.

         (3)(i)(a)  Registrant's  Certificate of  Incorporation,  as filed
                    November  28,  1969,  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                    (3)(i) to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal  year ended  September  30,  1994 (the  "1994  Annual
                    Report")

         (3)(i)(b)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed  March  1,  1985,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(ii) to the 1994 Annual Report

         (3)(i)(c)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed  April  1,  1987,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(iii) to the 1994 Annual Report

         (3)(i)(d)  Registrant's Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of
                    Incorporation,  as filed February 2, 1994,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)(iv) to the 1994 Annual Report

         (3)(ii)    Registrant's   Amended  and  Restated   By-laws  adopted
                    December 10, 1999

     (4)  Indenture   between  the  Registrant  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank
          (formerly  Chemical  Bank),  as  trustee,  dated  as of May 19,  1994,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's  Registration
          Statement on Form S-3, filed on April 14, 1994

     10.1 Representative  Distribution  Plan between Templeton Growth Fund, Inc.
          and  Franklin/Templeton   Investor  Services,   Inc.  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the  fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1993 (the  "1993  Annual
          Report")

     10.2 Representative Transfer Agent Agreement between Templeton Growth Fund,
          Inc. and  Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc. incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Annual Report




     10.3 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Growth  Fund,   Inc.  and  Templeton,   Galbraith  &  Hansberger  Ltd.
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Annual Report

     10.4 Representative  Management Agreement between Advisers and the Franklin
          Group  of Funds  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1 to the
          Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the  fiscal  year  ended
          September 30, 1992 (the "1992 Annual Report")

     10.5 Representative  Distribution  12b-1 Plan between  Distributors and the
          Franklin Group of Funds  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
          the 1992 Annual Report

     10.6 Amended Annual Incentive  Compensation  Plan approved January 24, 1995
          incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
          cover of Schedule  14A on December  28,  1994 in  connection  with its
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 24, 1995 *

     10.7 Universal  Stock  Plan  approved  January  19,  1994  incorporated  by
          reference to the Company's 1995 Proxy  Statement  filed under cover of
          Schedule  14A on  December  29,  1993 in  connection  with its  Annual
          Meeting of Stockholders held on January 19, 1994 *

     10.8 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Federal Tax-Free
          Income  Fund,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to  the
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
          June 30, 1995 (the "June 1995 Quarterly Report")

     10.9 Distribution 12b-1 Plan for Class II shares between Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,   Inc.  and  Franklin   Federal  Tax-Free  Income  Fund,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the June 1995  Quarterly
          Report

    10.10 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Global  Strategy SICAV and Templeton  Investment  Management  Limited,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the June 1995  Quarterly
          Report

    10.11 Representative    Sub-Distribution    Agreement   between   Templeton,
          Galbraith & Hansberger Ltd. and BAC Corp. Securities,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report




    10.12 Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
          10.5 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.13 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.6 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.14 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment  Counsel,  Inc.  and Client  (NON-ERISA),  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the June 1995 Quarterly Report

    10.15 Representative  Amended and Restated  Transfer  Agent and  Shareholder
          Services Agreement between Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc.
          and Franklin Custodian Funds,  Inc., dated July 1, 1995,  incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1995 (the "1995  Annual
          Report")

    10.16 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds,
          Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.17 to the 1995 Annual
          Report

    10.17 Representative  Class II Distribution Plan between  Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin  Custodian Funds,  Inc., on behalf of
          its Growth Series,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
          1995 Annual Report

    10.18 Representative    Dealer    Agreement    between    Franklin/Templeton
          Distributors,  Inc. and Dealer,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
          10.19 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.19 Representative  Mutual Fund Purchase and Sales  Agreement for Accounts
          of  Bank  and  Trust  Company  Customers,   effective  July  1,  1995,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.20 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin Value Investors
          Trust,  on  behalf of  Franklin  MicroCap  Value  Fund,  and  Franklin
          Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the 1995
          Annual Report

    10.21 Representative    Sub-Distribution    Agreement   between   Templeton,
          Galbraith &  Hansberger  Ltd.  and  Sub-Distributor,  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 1995 Annual Report




    10.22 Representative  Non-Exclusive Underwriting Agreement between Templeton
          Growth Fund, Inc. and Templeton  Franklin  Investment  Services (Asia)
          Limited,  dated  September  18,  1995,  incorporated  by  reference to
          Exhibit 10.23 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.23 Representative      Shareholder     Services     Agreement     between
          Franklin/Templeton  Investor  Services,  Inc. and  Templeton  Franklin
          Investment   Services  (Asia)  Limited,   dated  September  18,  1995,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the 1995 Annual Report

    10.24 Agreement to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine  Securities  Corporation,
          Elmore Securities Corporation and Franklin Resources, Inc., dated June
          25,  1996,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 2 to  Registrant's
          Report on Form 8-K dated June 25, 1996

    10.25 Subcontract  for  Transfer  Agency  and  Shareholder   Services  dated
          November 1, 1996 by and between Franklin Investor  Services,  Inc. and
          PFPC Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's
          Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended  September  30,
          1996 (the "1996 Annual Report")

    10.26 Representative  Sample of Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services,  Inc.
          Transfer Agent and  Shareholder  Services  Agreement,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.27 Representative   Administration  Agreement  between  Templeton  Growth
          Fund,  Inc. and Franklin  Templeton  Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.28 Representative  Sample of Fund Administration  Agreement with Franklin
          Templeton Services,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
          to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.29 Representative  Subcontract for Fund  Administrative  Services between
          Franklin  Advisers,  Inc.  and  Franklin  Templeton  Services,   Inc.,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.30 Representative  Investment  Advisory Agreement between Franklin Mutual
          Series Fund Inc. and Franklin Mutual Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1996 Annual Report




    10.31 Representative  Management  Agreement between Franklin Valuemark Funds
          and  Franklin  Mutual  Advisers,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to
          Exhibit 10.31 to the 1996 Annual Report

    10.32 Representative  Investment  Advisory  and Asset  Allocation  Agreement
          between   Franklin   Templeton  Fund  Allocator  Series  and  Franklin
          Advisers, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1996
          Annual Report

    10.33 Representative   Management   Agreement   between  Franklin  New  York
          Tax-Free Income Fund, Inc. and Franklin  Investment Advisory Services,
          Inc.,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.33 to the 1996 Annual
          Report

    10.34 1998  Employee  Stock  Investment  Plan  approved  January  20,  1998,
          incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement filed under
          cover of Schedule  14A on December  17,  1997 in  connection  with its
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on January 20, 1998

    10.35 System  Development and Services Agreement dated as of August 29, 1997
          by and between Franklin/Templeton  Investor Services, Inc. and Sungard
          Shareholder Systems, Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
          to the 1997 Annual Report

    10.36 1998 Universal Stock  Incentive Plan approved  October 16, 1998 by the
          Board of Directors,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's Proxy
          Statement  filed under cover of Schedule  14A on December  23, 1998 in
          connection  with its  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to be held on
          January 28, 1999 *

    10.37 Amendment  No. 3 to the  Agreement  to Merge the  Businesses  of Heine
          Securities  Corporation,  Elmore  Securities  Corporation and Franklin
          Resources, Inc., dated December 17, 1997, incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
          quarterly period ended December 31, 1997

    10.38 Representative  Agreement for the Supply of Investment  Management and
          Administration  Services,  dated  February  16,  1998,  by and between
          Templeton   Funds  and  Templeton   Investment   Management   Limited,
          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1998




    10.39 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment Counsel, Inc. and Client (ERISA), as amended,  incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
          10-K/A for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1998 (the "1998 Annual
          Report")

    10.40 Representative   Investment  Management  Agreement  between  Templeton
          Investment  Counsel,   Inc.  and  Client   (NON-ERISA),   as  amended,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the 1998 Annual Report

    10.41 Representative  Variable Insurance Fund Participation  Agreement among
          Templeton  Variable  Products Series Fund or Franklin  Valuemark Fund,
          Franklin/Templeton   Distributors,   Inc.  and  an  insurance  company
          incorporated  by reference  from Exhibit 10.1 to the form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended December 31, 1998

    10.42 Purchase  Agreement  between  Mariners  Island  Co-Tenancy and Keynote
          Systems,  Inc.  dated  April 25, 2000  incorporated  by  reference  to
          Exhibit  10 to the  Company's  Report  on Form  10-Q for the quarterly
          period ended June 30, 2000

    10.43 Acquisition  Agreement  dated July 26, 2000 among Franklin  Resources,
          Inc., FTI Acquisition and Bissett & Associates Investment  Management,
          Ltd.,  incorporated  by reference to  Registrant's  Report on Form 8-K
          dated August 1, 2000

    10.44 Agreement and Plan of Share  Acquisition  between Franklin  Resources,
          Inc. and Fiduciary Trust Company International dated October 25, 2000,
          incorporated  by  reference  to  Registrant's  Report  on  Form  8-K/A
          (Amendment No. 1) dated October 25, 2000 and filed on October 26, 2000

    10.45 Representative  Amended  and  Restated  Distribution  Agreement  among
          Templeton  Emerging  Markets  Fund,   Templeton  Canadian  Bond  Fund,
          Templeton  International  Stock Fund,  Templeton  Canadian Stock Fund,
          Templeton Global Smaller  Companies Fund,  Templeton Global Bond Fund,
          Templeton   Treasury  Bill  Fund,   Templeton  Global  Balanced  Fund,
          Templeton   International  Balanced  Fund,  Templeton  Canadian  Asset
          Allocation  Fund,  Mutual Beacon Fund,  Franklin U.S. Small Cap Growth
          Fund,  Templeton Balanced Fund, Templeton Growth Fund, Ltd., Templeton
          Management Limited and FEP Capital, L.P. dated December 31, 1998

    10.46 Representative   Purchase   and   Sales   Agreement   by   and   among
          Franklin/Templeton  Distributors,  Inc., Franklin Resources,  Inc. and
          Lightning Finance Company Limited dated August 1, 1999

    10.47 Representative  Advisory  Agreement  between Templeton Global Advisers
          Limited and Templeton Asset Management Limited dated December 21, 1999

    10.48 Representative   Amended  and  Restated  Commission  Paying  Agreement
          between  Templeton  Global Strategy Funds,  Templeton  Global Advisors
          Limited,  Templeton  Global  Strategic  Services  S.A.,  and Lightning
          Finance Company Limited dated January 31, 2000

    10.49 Representative  Variable Insurance Fund Participation  Agreement among
          Franklin   Templeton   Variable  Insurance  Products  Trust  (formerly
          Franklin Valuemark Funds),  Franklin/Templeton  Distributors, Inc. and
          CUNA Mutual Life Insurance Company dated May 1, 2000

    10.50 Stock Purchase  Agreement  between Good Morning  Securities  Co., Ltd.
          and Templeton Investment Counsel, Inc. dated June 29, 2000

    10.51 Agreement   entered  into  between  NEDCOR  Investment  Bank  Holdings
          limited,  NEDCOR  Investment  Bank Limited,  Templeton  International,
          inc.,  Franklin Templeton Asset Management  (Proprietary)  Limited and
          Templeton Global Advisors Limited dated August 1, 2000

    10.52 Representative  Amended and Restated  Distribution  Agreement  between
          Franklin-Templeton  Distributors,  Inc. and Franklin Growth and Income
          Fund dated August 10, 2000

     12   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

     21   List of Subsidiaries

     23   Consent of Independent Accountants

     27   Financial Data Schedule

          * Compensatory Plan

  (b)(1)  Report on Form 8-K dated  July 11,  2000 was filed on July 13,  2000
          under Items 5 and 7

  (b)(2)  Report on Form 8-K dated  July 26,  2000 was filed on August 1, 2000
          under Items 5 and 7




  (b)(3)  Report on Form 8-K dated  July 27,  2000 was filed on August 2, 2000
          attaching Registrant's press release dated July 27, 2000 under Items 5
          and 7

  (b)(4)  Report on Form 8-K dated and filed on October 25, 2000 under Items 5
          and 7

  (b)(5)  Report on Form 8-K/A  (Amendment  No. 1) dated  October 25, 2000 was
          filed on October 26, 2000 under Items 5 and 7

     (c)  See Item 14(a)(3) above

     (d)  No separate financial statements are required;  schedules are included
          in Item 8



