
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                        MARSH & MCLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
                          1166 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS
                         NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10036-2774
                                 (212) 345-5000
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5998
                        STATE OF INCORPORATION: DELAWARE
                 I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO. 36-2668272
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes __X__. No _____.
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K __X__.
 
    As of February 27, 1998, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $14,691,000,000.
 
    As of February 27, 1998, there were outstanding 170,557,674 shares of common
stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the registrant.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
              (ONLY TO THE EXTENT SET FORTH IN THE PART INDICATED)
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------






                        MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.

                         ------------------------------

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
       
                           --------------------------
                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business.

     Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the "registrant"), a professional
services organization with origins dating from 1871 in the United States, is a
holding company which, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides clients
with analysis, advice and transactional capabilities in the fields of risk and
insurance services, investment management and consulting. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on
pages 26 through 33 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 (the "1997 Annual Report"), which is incorporated herein by
reference, for a discussion of the registrant's revenues and operating income by
industry segment for each of the last three fiscal years.

     Risk and Insurance Services. Registrant's risk and insurance services are
provided by its subsidiaries and their affiliates on a worldwide basis, as
broker, agent or consultant for insureds, insurance underwriters and other
brokers. These services are provided by J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, which include Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., a
reinsurance intermediary, and Seabury & Smith, Inc., an insurance program
manager, and their subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, Marsh & McLennan
Risk Capital Corp. provides services principally in connection with originating,
structuring and managing insurance and related industry investments.

     On March 27, 1997, the registrant acquired all of the capital stock of
Johnson & Higgins, the leading privately held insurance services and employee
benefit consulting firm. Johnson & Higgins was subsequently merged with Marsh &
McLennan, Incorporated to form J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. The reinsurance




intermediary business of Johnson & Higgins, conducted by Willcox Incorporated
Reinsurance Intermediaries, was combined with Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. and
its benefit consulting business conducted by A. Foster Higgins & Co., Inc., was
combined with the operations of William M. Mercer Companies LLC. In January
1997, the registrant acquired CECAR SA, a French insurance broker, resulting in
the registrant becoming the largest insurance broker in France.

     J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. is a world leader in
providing risk management and insurance broking services. These services,
carried on throughout the world, are provided for a predominantly corporate
clientele located in more than 100 countries, primarily in North and South
America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Client companies are engaged in a broad range
of commercial activities, including general industries, financial and
professional services, aviation, marine, energy, construction, land
transportation, healthcare and utility concerns. Clients also include
professional, institutional and public entities and individuals.

     Such risk management and insurance broking services involve various types
of property and liability loss exposures, including large and complex risks that
require access to world insurance markets. Services provided to clients include
insurance broking and risk transfer activities and professional counseling
services on risk management issues, including risk analysis, coverage
requirements, self-insurance (in which the insured retains a portion of its
insurance risks), and alternative insurance and risk financing methods, as well
as claims collection, injury management, loss prevention and other insurance
related services. Services also include organization and administrative services
for special purpose insurance companies and other risk assumption alternatives.
Insurance placement services include the placement of insurance coverages with
insurers world-wide, sometimes involving other intermediaries. Correspondent
relationships are maintained with unaffiliated firms in certain countries.

     Reinsurance broking services are provided to insurance and reinsurance risk
takers worldwide, principally by Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, from offices principally in North America and
Europe. Such services primarily involve acting as an intermediary for insurance
and reinsurance organizations on all classes of reinsurance, including specialty
lines such as professional liability, medical malpractice,




accident, life and health. The intermediary assists the insurer by providing
advice, placing reinsurance coverage with reinsurance organizations located
around the world, and placing risk-transfer financing with capital markets, and
furnishing related services such as actuarial, financial and regulatory
consulting, portfolio analysis and catastrophe modeling. Claims services are
often performed for policies placed a number of years previously. The insurance
company may seek reinsurance or other risk-transfer financing on all or a
portion of the risks it insures. Intermediary services are also provided to
reinsurance companies, which may also seek reinsurance on the risks they have
reinsured.

     Seabury & Smith, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates provide insurance
program management services (including the design, placement and administration
of life, health, accident, disability, automobile, homeowners, professional
liability and other insurance, and related products) primarily on a group
marketing basis to individuals, businesses and their employees, and associations
and other affinity groups (both sponsored and non-sponsored), and their members
principally in the United States and Canada. It provides underwriting management
services to insurers in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom,
primarily for professional liability coverages.

     Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp. Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp.
("MMRCC") provides services in connection with originating, structuring and
managing insurance and related industry investments. It is an advisor to The
Trident Partnership L.P., an independent private investment partnership formed
in 1994 to make private equity investments in the global insurance and
reinsurance industry. MMRCC is also an advisor to Risk Capital Reinsurance
Company, which was formed in 1995 to provide reinsurance, both on a stand-alone
basis and as part of integrated capital solutions for insurance companies. MMRCC
and its predecessor operations were instrumental in the formation of several
substantial insurance and reinsurance entities, including A.C.E. Insurance
Company, Ltd., X.L. Insurance Company, Ltd., Mid Ocean Reinsurance Company Ltd.
and Risk Capital Reinsurance Company. MMRCC also advises its immediate parent
company, Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings, Ltd., regarding the latter's
ownership holdings in certain insurance and reinsurance entities and funds,
primarily ones initiated by MMRCC. As a result of the foregoing activities,
subsidiaries and affiliates of the registrant may have direct or indirect
investments in insurance




and reinsurance companies, including entities at Lloyd's, which are considered
for client placements by the registrant's insurance and reinsurance brokerage
businesses.

     Compensation For Services. The revenue attributable to the registrant's
risk and insurance services consists primarily of fees paid by clients;
commissions and fees paid by insurance and reinsurance companies; interest
income on funds held in a fiduciary capacity for others, such as premiums and
claims proceeds; placement services revenues earned from carriers; and
compensation for services provided in connection with the organization,
structuring and management of insurance and related industry investments,
including fees, royalties and dividends, as well as appreciation that has been
realized on sales of holdings in such entities.

     Revenue generated by risk and insurance services is fundamentally derived
from the value of the service provided to clients and markets, and is affected
by premium rate levels in the property and casualty insurance markets and
available insurance capacity, because compensation is frequently related to the
premiums paid by insureds. In many cases compensation may be negotiated in
advance based upon the estimated value of the services to be performed. Revenue
is also affected by fluctuations in the amount of risk retained by insurance and
reinsurance clients themselves and by insured values, the development of new
products, markets and services, new and lost business, merging of clients 
(including insurance companies that are clients in the reinsurance intermediary
business) and the volume of business from new and existing clients, as well as
by interest rates for fiduciary funds.

     Revenue and fees also may be received from originating, structuring and
managing investments in insurers and related industry investments, and income
and proceeds also may be derived from investments made by the registrant.
Placement services revenue includes payments or allowances by insurance
companies based upon such factors as the overall volume of business placed by
the broker with that insurer, the aggregate commissions paid by the insurer for
that book during specific periods, or the loss performance to the insurer of
that business.

     Revenues vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy
renewals, the net effect of new and lost




business production and realizing on investments, whereas expenses tend to be
more uniform throughout the year.

     Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or
reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, and the
capacity in which the broker acts, in addition to negotiations with clients. In
some cases, compensation for brokerage or advisory services is paid directly as
a fee by the client. Occasionally, commissions are shared with other brokers
that have participated in placing insurance or servicing insureds.

     The investment of fiduciary funds is governed by the applicable laws or
regulations of insurance authorities of the states in the United States and in
other jurisdictions in which the registrant's subsidiaries do business. These
laws and regulations typically limit the type of investments that may be made
with such funds. The general amount of funds invested and interest rates may
vary from time to time.

     Investment Management. Investment management and related services are
provided by Putnam Investments, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Putnam"). Putnam has
been engaged in the investment management business since 1937, with its
principal offices in Boston, Massachusetts. Putnam also has offices in London
and Tokyo. Putnam provides individual and institutional investors with a broad
range of equity and fixed income investment products and services designed to
meet varying investment objectives and which afford its clients the opportunity
to allocate their investment resources among various alternative investment
products as changing worldwide economic and market conditions warrant.

     Investment Management Services. Putnam's investment management services,
which are performed principally in the United States, include securities
investment advisory and management services consisting of investment research
and management, and accounting and related services for a group of publicly-held
investment companies. As of December 31, 1997, there were 100 such funds (the
"Putnam Funds") registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, including
17 closed-end investment companies whose shares are traded on various major
domestic stock exchanges. A number of the open-end funds serve as funding media
for variable insurance contracts. Investment management services are also
provided to corporate




profit sharing and pension funds, state and other governmental and public
employee retirement funds, university endowment funds, charitable foundations,
collective investment vehicles (both U.S. and non-U.S.) and other domestic and
foreign institutional accounts.

     Assets managed by Putnam, on which management fees are based, were
approximately $235.1 billion and $173.4 billion as of December 31, 1997 and
1996, respectively. Mutual fund assets aggregated $182.0 billion at December 31,
1997 and $133.8 billion at December 31, 1996. Assets under management at
December 31, 1997 consisted of approximately 69% equity securities and 31% 
fixed income products, invested both domestically and globally.

     Putnam's revenues are derived primarily from its investment management fees
received from the Putnam Funds and institutional accounts. Assets under
management and revenue levels are particularly affected by fluctuations in
domestic and international bond and stock market prices, and by the level of
investments and withdrawals for current and new fund shareholders and clients.
They are also affected by investment performance, service to clients, the
development and marketing of new investment products, the relative
attractiveness of the investment style under prevailing market conditions and
changes in the investment patterns of clients. Fluctuations in the prices of
stocks will have an effect on equity assets under management and may influence
the flow of monies to and from equity funds and accounts. Fluctuations in
interest rates and in the yield curve have a similar effect on fixed income
assets under management and may influence the flow of monies to and from
fixed-income funds and accounts. Putnam offers investment products that allow
investors to diversify between stocks and bonds, domestically and
internationally.

     The investment management services provided to the Putnam Funds and
institutional accounts are performed pursuant to advisory contracts which
provide for a fee payable to the Putnam company that manages the account. The
amount of the fee varies depending on the individual mutual fund or account and
is usually based upon a sliding scale in relation to the level of assets under
management and, in certain instances, is also based on investment performance.
Such contracts automatically terminate in the event of their "assignment",
generally may be terminated by either party without penalty and, as to contracts
with the 




Putnam Funds, continue in effect only so long as approved, at least annually, by
their shareholders or by the Putnam Funds' trustees, including a majority who
are not affiliated with Putnam. "Assignment" includes any direct or indirect
transfer of a controlling block of voting stock in Putnam or registrant. The
management of Putnam and the trustees of the funds regularly review the fund fee
structure in light of fund performance, the level and range of services
provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors.

     Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company. A Putnam subsidiary, Putnam Fiduciary Trust
Company, a Massachusetts trust company, serves as transfer agent, dividend
disbursing agent, registrar and custodian for the Putnam Funds and provides
custody services to several external clients. Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company
receives compensation from the Putnam Funds for such services pursuant to
written agreements which may be terminated by either party on 90 days' notice,
and for providing custody services pursuant to written agreements which may be
terminated by either party on 30 days' notice. These contracts generally provide
for compensation on the basis of several factors which vary with the type of
service being provided. In addition, Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company provides
administrative and trustee (or custodian) services for employee benefit plans
(in particular 401(k) plans), IRA's and other clients for which it receives
compensation pursuant to service and trust or custodian contracts. In the case
of employee benefit plans, investment options are selected by the plan sponsors
and may include Putnam mutual funds and other Putnam managed products, as well
as employer stock and other non-Putnam investments. In some instances, The
Putnam Advisory Company, Inc., a Putnam subsidiary, acts as investment manager
for a plan's fixed income portfolio and receives compensation for such
investment management services pursuant to an investment management agreement.

     Putnam Mutual Funds Corp. Putnam Mutual Funds Corp., a Putnam subsidiary,
acts as principal underwriter of the shares of the open-end Putnam Funds,
selling primarily through independent broker/dealers, financial planners and
financial institutions, including banks, and directly to certain large 401(k)
plans and other institutional accounts. Shares of the open-end funds are
generally sold at their respective net asset value per share plus a sales
charge, which varies depending on the individual fund and the amount purchased.
In some cases the sales charge is assessed only if the shares are redeemed
within a stated time period. In 




accordance with certain terms and conditions described in the prospectuses for
such funds, certain investors are eligible to purchase shares at net asset value
or at reduced sales charges, and investors may generally exchange their shares
of a fund at net asset value for shares of another Putnam Fund without the
payment of additional sales charges.

     Commissions to selling dealers are typically paid at the time of the
purchase as a percentage of the amount invested. Essentially all Putnam Funds
are available with a contingent deferred sales charge in lieu of a front-end
load. The related prepaid dealer commissions initially paid by Putnam to
broker/dealers for distributing such funds are recovered through charges and
fees received over a number of years.

     Nearly all of the open-end Putnam Funds have adopted distribution plans
pursuant to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 under which the
Putnam Funds make payments to Putnam Mutual Funds Corp., a Putnam subsidiary, to
cover costs relating to distribution of the Putnam Funds and services provided
to shareholders. These payments enable the Putnam subsidiary to pay service fees
and other continuing compensation to firms that provide services to Putnam Fund
shareholders and distribute shares of the Putnam Funds. Some Rule 12b-1 fees are
retained by the Putnam Mutual Funds Corp. as compensation for the costs of
distribution and other services provided by Putnam to shareholders and for
commissions advanced by Putnam at the point of sale (and recovered through fees
received over time) to firms that distribute shares of the Putnam Funds. These
distribution plans, and payments made by the Putnam Funds thereunder, are
subject to annual renewal by the trustees of the Putnam Funds and to termination
by vote of the shareholders of the Putnam Funds or by vote of a majority of the
Putnam Funds' trustees who are not affiliated with Putnam. Failure of the
Trustees to approve continuation of the Rule 12b-1 plans for Class B (deferred
sales charge) shares would have a material adverse effect on Putnam. The
Trustees also have the ability to reduce the level of 12b-1 fees paid by a fund
or to make other changes that would reduce the amount of 12b-1 fees received by
Putnam. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on Putnam. The
registrant has received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment from a field office of
the Internal Revenue Service challenging its tax treatment relating to 12b-1
fees; see Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 42 of the 1997
Annual Report.




     Putnam provides investor services through three separate facilities in the
Boston area and has one of the largest image processing facilities in the world.

     Consulting. Through Mercer Consulting Group, Inc., subsidiaries and
affiliates of the registrant, separately and in collaboration, provide
consulting services to a predominantly corporate clientele from locations around
the world, primarily in the areas of human resources and employee benefit
programs, including retirement, health care and compensation; and general
management consulting, which comprises strategy, operations and marketing.
Mercer Consulting Group, Inc. also provides economic consulting and analysis.

     William M. Mercer Companies LLC ("William M. Mercer"), through its
subsidiaries and affiliates, provides professional advice and services to
corporate, government and institutional clients from offices in approximately 27
countries and territories, primarily in North and South America, Western Europe,
East Asia, Australia and New Zealand. Consultants help organizations design,
implement, administer and communicate retirement, compensation and other human
resource programs, and provide other types of actuarial advice. In addition,
William M. Mercer advises the management of health care providers on various
business issues, and through its investment consultants, the firm assists
trustees of pension funds and others in the selection of investment managers and
investment strategies. In certain locations outside the United States, William
M. Mercer advises individuals in the investment and disposition of lump sum
retirement benefits and other retirement savings and provides related trustee
services.

     Mercer Management Consulting, Inc. provides advice and assistance on issues
of business strategy, primarily to large corporations in North America, Europe
and Asia. Consultants help senior executives more fully understand the behavior
of their customers, optimize the economics of their business, and structure
their organizations, processes and systems to achieve their strategic goals. In
addition, under the Lippincott & Margulies name, Mercer Management Consulting,
Inc. provides consulting services relating to brand and corporate identity and
image.

     National Economic Research Associates, Inc. ("NERA"), a firm of consulting
economists, provides advice to law firms, 




corporations, trade associations and governmental agencies, from offices in the
United States, England and Spain. NERA provides research and analysis of
economic and financial issues arising in litigation, regulation, public policy
and management.

     The major component of Mercer Consulting Group's revenue is fees paid by
clients for advice. In addition, commission revenue is received from insurance
companies for the placement of individual and group insurance contracts,
primarily life, health and accident coverages. A relatively small amount of
revenue is derived from brokerage commissions in connection with a registered
securities broker dealer.

     Revenue in the consulting business is affected by changes in clients'
industries, including government regulation, as well as new products and
services, the stage of the economic cycle and broad trends in employee
demographics and in the management of large organizations.

     Regulation. The activities of the registrant are subject to licensing
requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and
its various states, territories and possessions, as well as laws of other
countries in which the registrant's subsidiaries operate. These laws and
regulations are primarily intended to benefit clients.

     The registrant's three business segments depend on the validity of, and
continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they
operate, as well as compliance with pertinent regulations. The registrant
therefore devotes significant effort toward maintaining its licenses and to
ensuring compliance with a diverse and complex regulatory structure.

     In all jurisdictions the applicable laws and regulations are subject to
amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such
authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and
revoke licenses and approvals, and to implement regulations. Licenses may be
denied or revoked for various reasons, including the violation of such
regulations, conviction of crimes and the like. Possible sanctions which may be
imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging
in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses,
censures and fines. In some instances, the registrant follows practices based on
its 




interpretations, or those generally followed by the industry, of laws or
regulations, which may prove to be different from those of regulatory
authorities. Accordingly, the possibility exists that the registrant may be
precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of its
activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction.

     No assurances can be given that the registrant's risk and insurance
services, investment management or consulting activities can continue to be
conducted in any given jurisdiction as in the past.

     Risk and Insurance Services. While the laws and regulations vary among
jurisdictions, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions
require an insurance broker or agent (and in some cases a reinsurance broker or
intermediary) or insurance consultant, managing general agent or third party
administrator to have an individual and/or company license from a governmental
agency or self-regulatory organization. In addition, certain of the registrant's
risk and insurance activities are governed by the rules of the Lloyd's insurance
market in London and self-regulatory organizations in other jurisdictions, as
well as securities and futures licensing authorities. A few jurisdictions issue
licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities. In
some of these jurisdictions, if the registrant has no licensed subsidiary, the
registrant may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities
licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Also, in some jurisdictions, various
insurance related taxes may also be due either by clients directly or from the
broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for
payment.

     Investment Management. Putnam's securities investment management activities
are subject to regulation in the United States by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and other federal, state and self regulatory authorities, as well as
in certain other countries in which it does business. Putnam's officers,
directors and employees may from time to time own securities which are also held
by the Putnam Funds or institutional accounts. Putnam's internal policies with
respect to individual investments require prior clearance and reporting of
transactions and restrict certain transactions so as to reduce the possibility
of conflicts of interests.




     To the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of
Putnam fund shares or other investment products or their investment strategies,
cause or contribute to reduced sales of Putnam fund shares or investment
products or impair the investment performance of the Putnam Funds or such other
investment products, Putnam's aggregate assets under management and its revenues
might be adversely affected. Changes in regulations affecting the free movement
of international currencies might also adversely affect Putnam.

     Consulting. No licensing or other regulatory requirements are material to
the consulting activities of the registrant's subsidiaries in the aggregate nor
apply to that activity in general; however, the subject matter of certain
consulting services is subject to regulation. For example, employee benefit
plans are subject to various governmental regulations, and services related to
brokerage activities, trustee services, investment matters or the placing of
individual and group insurance contracts subject the registrant's subsidiaries
to insurance, investment or securities regulations and licensing in various
jurisdictions.

     Competitive Conditions. Principal methods of competition in risk and
insurance services and consulting include the quality and types of services and
products that a broker or consultant provides its clients and their cost. Putnam
competes with other providers of investment products and services primarily on
the basis of the range of investment products offered, the investment
performance of such products, as well as the manner in which such products are
distributed, and the scope and quality of the shareholder and other services
provided. Sales of Putnam fund shares are also influenced by general securities
market conditions, government regulations, global economic conditions and
advertising and sales promotional efforts.

     All these businesses also encounter strong competition from both public
corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees.

     Risk and Insurance Services. The insurance and reinsurance broking services
business of the registrant is believed to be among the largest of its type in
the world.

     The registrant encounters strong competition in the risk and insurance
services business from other insurance brokerage firms 




which also operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of
regional and local firms in the United States and in other countries, from
insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance
products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other financial
services businesses, including commercial and investment banks that provide
risk-related services and products.

     Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self
insurance, as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby
reducing in some cases the need for insurance placement services. There are also
many other providers of insurance program management services, including many
insurance companies, and many other organizations seeking to structure and
manage investments in the insurance industry.

     Investment Management. Putnam Investments is one of the largest investment
management firms in the United States. The investment management business is
highly competitive. In addition to competition from firms already in the
investment management business, including commercial banks, stock brokerage and
investment banking firms, and insurance companies, there is competition from
other firms offering financial services and other investment alternatives.

     Many securities dealers, whose large retail distribution systems play an
important role in the sale of shares in the Putnam Funds, also sponsor competing
proprietary mutual funds. To the extent that such securities dealers value the
ability to offer customers a broad selection of investment alternatives, they
will continue to sell independent funds, notwithstanding the availability of
proprietary products. However, to the extent that these firms limit or restrict
the sale of Putnam fund shares through their brokerage systems in favor of their
proprietary mutual funds, assets under management might decline and Putnam's
revenues might be adversely affected. In addition, a number of mutual fund
sponsors presently market their funds to the general public without sales
charges. Certain firms also offer passively managed funds such as index funds to
the general public.

     Consulting. Mercer Consulting Group, one of the largest global consulting
firms, is a leader in many of its businesses. William M. Mercer is the world's
largest human resources consulting organization. Mercer Management Consulting is
a 



leader in strategy consulting. NERA is a leading firm of consulting economists.

     William M. Mercer, Mercer Management Consulting and NERA compete with other
privately held and publicly held worldwide and national consulting companies, as
well as regional and local firms. Competitors include independent consulting
firms as well as consulting organizations affiliated with accounting firms,
information systems providers, and financial services firms, some of which
emphasize administrative or consulting services related to other services.

     Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of
Operation. Financial information relating to the types of services provided by
the registrant and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein
by reference to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 51 of the 1997 Annual Report. The registrant's non-U.S. operations are
subject to the customary risks involved in doing business in other countries,
such as currency fluctuations and exchange controls.

     Employees. As of December 31, 1997, the registrant and its consolidated
subsidiaries employed about 36,000 people worldwide, of whom approximately
20,500 were employed by subsidiaries providing risk and insurance services,
approximately 5,400 were employed by subsidiaries providing investment
management services, approximately 9,700 were employed by subsidiaries providing
consulting services, and approximately 400 were employed by the registrant.

     INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This report and the
registrant's financial statements and other documents incorporated herein by
reference contain certain statements relating to future results, which are
forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation,
discussions concerning revenue and expense growth, cost savings and efficiencies
expected from the integration of Johnson & Higgins, market and industry
conditions, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters
relating to the registrant's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking
statements are based on available current market and industry materials,
expert's reports and opinions, as well as management's expectations concerning
future events impacting the 




registrant. Forward looking statements by their very nature involve risks and
uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from
those contemplated by any forward looking statements contained or incorporated
herein include, in the case of registrant's risk and insurance services
business, the failure to successfully integrate the recently acquired insurance
services and employee benefit consulting business of Johnson & Higgins
(including the achievement of synergies and cost reductions), changes in
competitive conditions, a decrease in the premium rate levels in the global
property and casualty insurance markets, the impact of changes in insurance
markets and natural catastrophes; in the case of registrant's investment
management business, changes in worldwide and national securities and fixed
income markets and; with respect to all of registrant's activities, changes in
general worldwide and national economic conditions, fluctuations in foreign
currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates,
developments relating to claims and lawsuits, changes in the tax or accounting
treatment of the registrant's operations and the impact of tax and other
legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the registrant
operates. A more detailed description of certain of these factors is included
elsewhere in this Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 2.  Properties.

     The registrant and four of its subsidiaries, as tenants in common, own a
56% condominium interest in a 44-story building in New York City which serves as
their worldwide headquarters. As part of the business combination with Johnson &
Higgins, the registrant acquired a 37.58% condominium interest in a 40 story
building in New York City, which is currently used by the risk and insurance
services business of J&H Marsh & McLennan, Inc. The principal offices of the
registrant's risk and insurance services subsidiaries in London are located in
two adjoining buildings on land under a lease which expires in 2077, which site
is currently expected to be redeveloped by registrant.

         The remaining business activities of the registrant and its
subsidiaries are conducted principally in leased office space in
cities throughout the world.  No difficulty is anticipated in
negotiating renewals as leases expire or in finding other
satisfactory space if the premises become unavailable.  From time




to time, the registrant may have unused space and may seek to sublet such space
to third parties, depending upon the demands for office space in the locations
involved.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.

     The registrant and its subsidiaries are subject to various claims and
lawsuits consisting principally of alleged errors and omissions in connection
with the placement of insurance or reinsurance and in rendering investment and
consulting services. Some of these claims and lawsuits seek damages, including
punitive damages, in amounts which could, if assessed, be significant.

     On November 24, 1997, an action captioned "Aiena, et al. v. Olsen, et al."
was brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York by certain former directors of Johnson & Higgins ("J&H"), which was
acquired by the registrant in March 1997, against twenty-four selling
shareholders of J&H, as well as J&H itself and the registrant. The action
essentially challenges the allocation of the consideration paid in connection
with the registrant's combination with J&H as between the defendants who were
directors and shareholders of J&H at the time of the transaction and the
plaintiffs who were former directors and shareholders of J&H. On or about March
10, 1998, an amended complaint (the "Complaint") was served in that action. The
Complaint asserts, among others, claims for breach of fiduciary duty, federal
securities law violations, breach of contract, and ERISA violations. Plaintiffs
seek compensatory and punitive damages.

     On the basis of present information, available insurance coverage and
advice received from counsel, it is the opinion of the registrant's management
that the disposition or ultimate determination of these claims and lawsuits will
not have a material adverse effect on the registrant's consolidated results of
operations or its consolidated financial position.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

         None.




                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
         Stockholder Matters.

     Market and dividend information regarding the registrant's common stock on
page 53 of the 1997 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

     The selected financial data on pages 54 and 55 of the 1997 Annual Report
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations.

     Information on pages 26 through 33 of the 1997 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

     The Consolidated Financial Statements and the Report of Independent
Auditors thereto on pages 34 through 52 of the 1997 Annual Report and Selected
Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page 53 of the 1997 Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference. Supplemental Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements are included on pages 26 and 27 hereof.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure.

         None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Information as to the directors of the registrant is incorporated herein by
reference to the material under the heading "Directors" in the Notice of Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement dated March 31, 1998 (the "1998
Proxy Statement").



     The executive officers of the registrant as of March 24, 1998 are Messrs.
Barham, Blum, Borelli, Coster, Greenberg, Lasser, Sinnott and Smith, with
respect to whom information is incorporated herein by reference to the 1998
Proxy Statement, and:

         Francis N. Bonsignore, age 51, has been Senior Vice President-Human
     Resources & Administration of the registrant since 1990. Immediately 
     prior thereto, he was partner and National Director-Human Resources for 
     Price Waterhouse.
 
         Gregory F. Van Gundy, age 52, is Secretary and General Counsel of the 
     registrant.  He joined the registrant in 1974.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

     Information under the headings "Executive Compensation", "Compensation
Committee Report" and "Comparison of Cumulative Total Stockholder Return" in the
1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
 
     Information under the heading "Security Ownership" in the 1998 Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     Information under the headings "Employment Agreements" and "Transactions
with Management and Others; Other Information" in the 1998 Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on 
          Form 8-K.

     (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report:
 
         1. Consolidated Financial Statements (incorporated herein by reference 
            to pages 34 through 51 of the 1997 Annual Report):



            Consolidated Statements of Income for the
            three years ended December 31, 1997

            Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
            December 31, 1997 and 1996

            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
            three years ended December 31, 1997

            Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
            Equity for the three years ended
            December 31, 1997

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

            Report of Independent Auditors

         Supplemental Notes to Consolidated Financial
         Statements
 
         Report of Independent Auditors
 
         Other:
 
            Selected Quarterly Financial Data and
            Supplemental Information (Unaudited) for the
            three years ended December 31, 1997
            (incorporated herein by reference to page
            53 of the 1997 Annual Report)
 
            Ten-Year Statistical Summary of Operations
            (incorporated herein by reference to pages
            54 and 55 of the 1997 Annual Report)
 
         2. All required Financial Statement Schedules are included in the
            Consolidated Financial Statements, the Notes to Consolidated 
            Financial Statements or the Supplemental Notes to Consolidated 
            Financial Statements.
 
         3. The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report:




             (3.1)   -the registrant's restated certificate of incorporation
 
             (3.2)   -the registrant's by-laws
 
             (10.1)  -Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 12,
                      1997, by and among the registrant, Johnson & Higgins and 
                      the stockholders of Johnson & Higgins (incorporated
                      by reference to the registrant's Current Report on
                      Form 8-K dated March 14, 1997)
 
             (10.2)  -First Amendment to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
                      of March 27, 1997 by and among the registrant,
                      Johnson & Higgins and the stockholders of Johnson &
                      Higgins (incorporated by reference to the
                      registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April
                      7, 1997)
 
             (10.3)* -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 1997 Senior Executive 
                      Incentive and Stock Award Plan (incorporated by
                      reference to the registrant's Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996)
 
             (10.4)* -Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Restricted Shares 
                      Voluntary Deferral Program for U.S. Employees
                      (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995)

             (10.5)* -Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock Investment Supplemental
                      Plan (incorporated by reference to the registrant's 
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
                      December 31, 1994)
 
             (10.6)* -Amendment to Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock Investment
                      Supplemental Plan dated June 16, 1997


- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of
         Form 10-K.




             (10.7)* -Marsh & McLennan Companies Special Severance Pay Plan 
                      (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996)
 
             (10.8)* -Putnam Investments, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation 
                      Plan (incorporated by reference to the registrant's 
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
                      December 31, 1994)

             (10.9)* -Marsh & McLennan Companies Supplemental Retirement Plan 
                      (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)
 
             (10.10)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies Senior Management Incentive 
                      Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                      registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
                      ended December 31, 1994)
 
             (10.11)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. U.S. Employee 1997 Cash 
                      Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan 

             (10.12)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Canadian Employee 1997 
                      Cash Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan
 
             (10.13)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Directors Stock 
                      Compensation Plan (as amended and restated 6/27/97)
 
             (10.14)*-Employment Agreement between Jeffrey W. Greenberg and 
                      Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp. and related Guaranty
                      of the registrant (incorporated by reference to the 
                      registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
                      ended December 31, 1995)


- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of
         Form 10-K.




             (10.15)*-Employment Agreement between Lawrence J. Lasser and Putnam
                      Investments, Inc. effective as of December 31, 1997

                 (13)-Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
                      31, 1997, to be deemed filed only with respect to those 
                      portions which are expressly incorporated by reference
 
                 (21)-list of subsidiaries of the registrant (as of 2/28/98)

                 (23)-consent of independent auditors
 
                 (24)-powers of attorney

                 (27)-Financial Data Schedule (filed with SEC for EDGAR
                      purposes only)

              (b) Two reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant in the 
                  fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1997. On October 10, 1997
                  and December 4, 1997, respectively, the registrant filed a
                  report on Form 8-K (i) announcing the renewal of the
                  registrant's shareholders' rights plan and (ii) disclosing the
                  initiation of an action by certain former directors of Johnson
                  & Higgins ("J&H") challenging the allocation of the
                  consideration paid in connection with the registrant's
                  business combination with J&H.
 
 
- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item
         14(c) of Form 10-K.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
this 26th day of March, 1998 on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

                                         MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
                                         By /s/ A.J.C. SMITH
                                            -----------------------------
                                            A.J.C. SMITH
                                            Chairman of the Board
                                              and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated this 26th day of March, 1998.

/s/A.J.C. SMITH                                  NORMAN BARHAM*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
A.J.C. SMITH                                     NORMAN BARHAM
Director, Chairman of the Board                  Director
   and Chief Executive Officer


/s/FRANK J. BORELLI                              LEWIS W. BERNARD*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
FRANK J. BORELLI                                 LEWIS W. BERNARD
Senior Vice President and                        Director
   Chief Financial Officer,
   Director


/s/DOUGLAS C. DAVIS                              RICHARD H. BLUM*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
DOUGLAS C. DAVIS                                 RICHARD H. BLUM
Vice President and Controller                    Director
   (Chief Accounting Officer)




PETER COSTER*                                    RICHARD M. MORROW*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
PETER COSTER                                     RICHARD M. MORROW
Director                                         Director


ROBERT F. ERBURU*                                DAVID A. OLSEN*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
ROBERT F. ERBURU                                 DAVID A. OLSEN
Director                                         Director


JEFFREY W. GREENBERG*                            GEORGE PUTNAM*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
JEFFREY W. GREENBERG                             GEORGE PUTNAM
Director                                         Director


RAY J. GROVES*                                   ADELE SMITH SIMMONS*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
RAY J. GROVES                                    ADELE SMITH SIMMONS
Director                                         Director


RICHARD S. HICKOK*                               JOHN T. SINNOTT*
- -------------------------------                  ----------------------------
RICHARD S. HICKOK                                JOHN T. SINNOTT
Director                                         Director


THE RT. HON. LORD LANG OF MONKTON*               FRANK J. TASCO*
- ----------------------------------               ----------------------------
THE RT. HON. LORD LANG OF MONKTON                FRANK J. TASCO
Director                                         Director


LAWRENCE J. LASSER*
- -------------------------------
LAWRENCE J. LASSER
Director



- ------------------
*        Gregory F. Van Gundy, pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed by each 
         of the individuals whose name is followed by an (*) and filed herewith,
         by signing his name hereto does hereby sign and execute this Form l0-K
         of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on behalf of such individual in the
         capacities in which the names of each appear above.


                                                 /s/GREGORY F. VAN GUNDY
                                                 ----------------------------
                                                 GREGORY F. VAN GUNDY






                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Marsh & McLennan Companies,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, and have issued our
report thereon dated March 6, 1998; such financial statements and report are
included in your 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders and are incorporated herein
by reference. Our audits also included the supplemental notes to the
consolidated financial statements (the "Notes") listed in Item 14. These Notes
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such Notes, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
March 6, 1998





                MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             SUPPLEMENTAL NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16.      Information concerning the Company's valuation accounts
         follows:

An analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts for the three
years ended December 31, 1997 follows (in millions of dollars):



         (A)      Primarily related to the acquisition of Johnson &
                  Higgins.

         (B)      Includes $11.2 million relating to the sale of
                  Frizzell.
 
         (C)      Includes allowance for doubtful accounts related to
                  long-term consumer finance receivables amounting to
                  $6.3 million in 1995.

An analysis of the valuation allowance for certain foreign
deferred tax assets as of December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
follows (in millions of dollars):



         (A)      Included in other liabilities in the Consolidated
                  Balance Sheets.
 
         (B)      Reflects the write-off of the underlying tax assets,
                  since it has been determined that the Company will not
                  realize any future tax benefit.





                MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             SUPPLEMENTAL NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


17.      An analysis of intangible assets at December 31, 1997 and
         1996 follows (in millions of dollars):



         (A)      The increase from December 31, 1996 is primarily due to
                  the acquisition of Johnson & Higgins ($1,642.7 million)
                  and CECAR ($209.8 million).













                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
 
             (3.1)-the registrant's restated certificate of incorporation
 
             (3.2)-the registrant's by-laws
 
             (10.1)-Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 12, 1997, by and
                    among the registrant, Johnson & Higgins and the stockholders
                    of Johnson & Higgins (incorporated by reference to the
                    registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 14, 
                    1997)
 
             (10.2)-First Amendment to the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
                    of March 27, 1997 by and among the registrant, Johnson &
                    Higgins and the stockholders of Johnson & Higgins
                    (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Current 
                    Report on Form 8-K dated April 7, 1997)
 
            (10.3)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. 1997 Senior Executive 
                    Incentive and Stock Award Plan (incorporated by reference 
                    to the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
                    year ended December 31, 1996)
 
            (10.4)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Restricted Shares 
                    Voluntary Deferral Program for U.S. Employees 
                    (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995)

            (10.5)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock Investment Supplemental 
                    Plan(incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994)
 
            (10.6)*-Amendment to the Marsh & McLennan Companies Stock
                    Investment Supplemental Plan dated June 16, 1997


- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of
         Form 10-K.




                             EXHIBIT INDEX (cont'd)


            (10.7)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies Special Severance Pay Plan 
                    (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996)


            (10.8)*-Putnam Investments, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation 
                    Plan (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994)

            (10.9)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies Supplemental Retirement Plan 
                    (incorporated by reference to the registrant's Annual 
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992)

           (10.10)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies Senior Management Incentive 
                    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to the 
                    registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1994)

           (10.11)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. U.S. Employee 1997 Cash 
                    Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

           (10.12)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Canadian Employee 1997 
                    Cash Bonus Award Voluntary Deferral Plan

           (10.13)*-Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Directors Stock
                    Compensation Plan (as amended and restated 6/27/97)


- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of
         Form 10-K.




                             EXHIBIT INDEX (cont'd)

           (10.14)*-Employment Agreement between Jeffrey W. Greenberg and 
                    Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Corp. and related Guaranty 
                    of the registrant (incorporated by reference to the
                    registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1995)

           (10.15)*-Employment Agreement between Lawrence J. Lasser and Putnam
                    Investments, Inc. effective as of December 31, 1997

               (13)-Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
                    31, 1997, to be deemed filed only with respect to those 
                    portions which are expressly incorporated by reference

               (21)-list of subsidiaries of the registrant (as of 2/28/98)

               (23)-consent of independent auditors

               (24)-powers of attorney

               (27)-Financial Data Schedule (filed with SEC for EDGAR
                    purposes only)

         (b)      Two reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant in
                  the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1997.  On October
                  10, 1997 and December 4, 1997, respectively, the
                  registrant filed a report on Form 8-K (i) announcing
                  the renewal of the registrant's shareholders' rights
                  plan and (ii) disclosing the initiation of an action by
                  certain former directors of Johnson & Higgins ("J&H")
                  challenging the allocation of the consideration paid in
                  connection with the registrant's business combination
                  with J&H.


- ----------------------
*        Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
         required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of
         Form 10-K.





