
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K


(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                      OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     For the transition period from ___________ to __________
     Commission file number 1-2376

                                FMC CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


               Delaware                              94-0479804
- -------------------------------                    --------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

200 East Randolph Drive,
Chicago, Illinois                                       60601
- ------------------                                      -----
(Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 312/861-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                    Name of each exchange
Title of each class                 on which registered
- -------------------                 -------------------

Common Stock, $0.10 par value       New York Stock Exchange
                                    Chicago Stock Exchange
                                    Pacific Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights     New York Stock Exchange


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None


     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

YES [X]        NO [ ]

     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.   [X]

     THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
REGISTRANT AS OF MARCH 8, 2000, WAS $1,503,160,875, THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF THE
REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK, $0.10 PAR VALUE, OUTSTANDING AS OF THAT DATE WAS
31,194,000.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                      -----------------------------------


DOCUMENT                                 FORM 10-K REFERENCE
- --------                                 -------------------

Portions of 1999 Annual Report           Part I, Item 1; Part
to Stockholders                          II; and Part IV, Items
                                         14(a)(1) and (2)

Portions of Proxy Statement for          Part III
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders

================================================================================

                                     Page 2


                                     PART I

FMC Corporation was incorporated in 1928 under Delaware law and has its
principal executive offices at 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601.
As used in this report, except where otherwise stated or indicated by the
context, "FMC", "the company" or "the Registrant" means FMC Corporation and its
consolidated subsidiaries and their predecessors.

The company is one of the world's leading producers of machinery and chemicals
for industry and agriculture.  The company employs 15,609 people at 97
manufacturing facilities and mines in 26 countries.

The company operates in five principal industry segments: Energy Systems; Food
and Transportation Systems; Agricultural Products; Specialty Chemicals; and
Industrial Chemicals. The Energy Systems businesses supply drilling,
engineering, metering and subsea products systems and related services to the
oil and gas exploration industry.  Food and Transportation Systems businesses
provide automated processing and handling equipment to consumer-based
industries.  Agricultural Products produces crop protection and pest control
chemicals for worldwide markets.  The Specialty Chemicals businesses develop and
manufacture highly specialized products used in food, pharmaceutical and
personal care products. The Industrial Chemicals businesses provide commodity-
based chemicals produced in large quantities to industrial consumers.

Business and geographic segment data for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are summarized on
pages 16, 17 and 36 of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

                                      Incorporated by Reference From:

(a)  General Development           -  1999 Annual Report to
     of Business                      Stockholders, pages 2-4 and
                                      56, Management's Discussion
                                      and Analysis on pages
                                      22-31, and Notes 2, 3 and 4
                                      to the consolidated
                                      financial statements on
                                      pages 40-43


(b)  Financial Information         -  1999 Annual Report to
     About Industry Segments          Stockholders, pages 16-17
                                      and page 36


                                     Page 3


(c)  Narrative Description         -  1999 Annual Report to
     of Business                      Stockholders, pages 18-21
                                      and 22-31


Source and Availability of Raw Materials
- ----------------------------------------

FMC's raw material requirements vary by business segment and include mineral-
related natural resources, processed chemicals, seaweed, steel, aluminum, steel
castings and forgings and energy sources, such as oil, gas, coal, coke,
hydroelectric power and nuclear power.

Ores used in the Industrial Chemicals manufacturing process, such as trona and
phosphate rock, are produced from mines in the United States on property held by
FMC under long-term leases subject to periodic adjustment of royalty rates. Raw
materials used by Specialty Chemicals include lithium carbonate, which is
obtained from a South American manufacturer under a long-term sourcing
agreement, and alginates and carrageenan, which are derived from various types
of seaweed that are sourced by the company on a global basis. Raw materials used
by Agricultural Products, primarily processed chemicals, are obtained from
worldwide sources. The business segments that are involved in machinery
production, Energy Systems and Food and Transportation Systems, purchase carbon
steel, stainless steel, aluminum and steel castings and forgings both
domestically and internationally.

The company does not use single source suppliers for the majority of its raw
material purchases and believes the available supplies of raw materials are
adequate.


Patents
- -------

FMC owns a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses that are
cumulatively important to its business. FMC does not believe that the loss of
any one or group of related patents, trademarks or licenses would have a
material adverse effect on the overall business of FMC.


Seasonality
- -----------

FMC's businesses are generally not subject to significant seasonal fluctations,
except for the Agricultural Products segment, which tends toward lower
profitability in the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonality in worldwide
agricultural markets.

                                     Page 4


Competitive Conditions
- ----------------------

FMC encounters substantial competition in each of its five segments.  This
competition is expected to continue in both the United States and markets
outside the United States.  FMC markets its products through its own sales
organization and through independent distributors and sales representatives.
Competitive factors impacting sales of the company's products include: price,
service (including the ability to deliver products on an "as needed, where
needed" basis), product quality, warranty, technological innovation and
technical proficiency.  The number of the company's principal competitors varies
from segment to segment.

See pages 18 through 21 of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders for
information about each segment's principal products.


Research and Development Expense
- --------------------------------

In Millions                                  Year Ended December 31
                                         1999        1998        1997
                                        ------      ------      ------

Energy Systems                          $ 25.7      $ 24.7      $ 20.0
Food and Transportation Systems           26.1        26.0        26.7
Agricultural Products                     60.9        60.2        73.9
Specialty Chemicals                       21.2        28.0        35.2
Industrial Chemicals                      18.5        18.6        18.2
Corporate                                    -         0.2           -
                                        ------      ------      ------
    Total                               $152.4      $157.7      $174.0
                                        ======      ======      ======

Research and development ("R&D") expense for Specialty Chemicals declined in
1999 and 1998.  The 1999 decline was primarily due to the divestiture of
businesses, while the decline in 1998 reflected the segment's reallocation of
certain R&D resources toward customer-focused technical support (which is
included in selling, general and administrative expenses) and R&D workforce
reductions.

Agricultural Products R&D costs declined in 1998 when compared with 1997,
reflecting the completion of product development cycles related to Authority and
Aim herbicides.

                                     Page 5


Environmental
- -------------

                                         Incorporated by Reference From:

Compliance with Environmental     -      1999 Annual Report to
 Laws and Regulations                    Stockholders, Note 14 to
                                         the consolidated financial
                                         statements on pages 50-51

Employees
- ---------

FMC employs 15,609 people in its domestic and foreign operations.  Approximately
2,400 such employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements in the
United States.  In 2000, 5 of the company's 14 collective bargaining agreements
will expire, covering approximately 1,500 employees.  Certain of those contracts
are under negotiation at the present time.  FMC maintains good employee
relations and has successfully concluded virtually all of its recent
negotiations without a work stoppage. In those rare instances where a work
stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales
and earnings.  FMC, however, cannot predict the outcome of future contract
negotiations.


                                         Incorporated by Reference From:

(d)  Financial Information        -      1999 Annual Report to
     About Foreign and Domestic          Stockholders, page 36
     Operations and
     Export Sales


Forward Looking Statements - Safe Harbor Provisions
- ---------------------------------------------------

Statement under the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995: The company and its representatives may from time to time
make written or oral statements that are "forward-looking" and provide other
than historical information, including statements contained in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, in the company's other filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or in reports to its stockholders.

Whenever possible, FMC has identified these forward-looking statements by such
words or phrases as "will likely result", "is confident that", "expected",
"should", "could", "will continue to", "believes", "anticipates", "predicts",
"forecasts", "estimates", "projects" or similar expressions identifying
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation

                                     Page 6


Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's
current views and assumptions regarding future events, future business
conditions and the outlook for the company based on currently available
information. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed in, or implied by, these statements. The company wishes to caution
readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of the date made.

In connection with the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company is hereby identifying important
factors that could affect the company's financial performance and could cause
the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any
opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods in any current
statements.

Among the factors that could have an impact on the company's ability to achieve
its operating results and growth plan goals are:

     .    Significant price competition, particularly among competitors in the
          company's chemical businesses;

     .    The impact of unforeseen economic and political changes in the
          international markets where the company competes, including currency
          exchange rates, war, civil unrest, inflation rates, recessions, trade
          restrictions, foreign ownership restrictions and economic embargoes
          imposed by the United States or any of the foreign countries in which
          FMC does business, and other external factors over which the company
          has no control;

     .    The impact of significant changes in interest rates or taxation rates;

     .    Increases in ingredient or raw material prices compared with
          historical levels, or shortages of ingredients or raw materials;

     .    Inherent risks in the marketplace associated with new product
          introductions and technologies, particularly in agricultural and
          specialty chemicals;

     .    Changes in capital spending by customers in the petroleum exploration
          and airline industries;

     .    Risks associated with developing new manufacturing processes,
          particularly with respect to complex chemical products;

     .    The ability of the company to integrate possible future acquisitions
          or joint ventures into its existing operations;

                                     Page 7


     .    The impact of freight transportation delays beyond the control of the
          company;

     .    The effect of previously undetected compliance issues related to the
          arrival of the year 2000;

     .    Risks associated with joint venture, partnership or limited endeavors
          in which the company may be responsible at least in part for the acts
          or omissions of its partners;

     .    Conditions affecting domestic and international capital markets;

     .    Risks derived from unforeseen developments in industries served by the
          company, such as extreme weather patterns or low insect infestations
          in the agricultural sector, political or economic changes in the
          energy industries, and other external factors over which the company
          has no control;

     .    Risks associated with litigation, including the possibility that
          current reserves and estimated loss contingencies relating to the
          company's ongoing litigation may prove inadequate;

     .    Environmental liabilities that may arise in the future that exceed
          current reserves and estimated loss contingencies; and

     .    Increased competition in the hiring and retention of employees.

The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors may not be
all-inclusive, and it specifically declines to undertake any obligation to
publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect
events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the
occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

With respect to forward-looking statements set forth in the notes to
consolidated financial statements, including those relating to environmental
obligations, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings, as well as this 1999
Annual Report on Form 10-K, some of the factors that could affect the ultimate
disposition of those contingencies are changes in applicable laws, the
development of facts in individual cases, settlement opportunities and the
actions of plaintiffs, judges and juries.


ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

FMC leases executive offices in Chicago and administrative offices in
Philadelphia.  The company operates 97 manufacturing facilities and mines in 26
countries.  Its major research facility is in

                                     Page 8


Princeton, NJ. FMC holds mining leases on shale and ore deposits in Idaho to
supply its phosphorus plant in Pocatello, and owns substantial phosphatic ore
deposits in Rich County, Utah. Trona ore, used for soda ash production in Green
River, WY, is mined primarily from property held under long-term leases. FMC
owns the land and mineral rights to the Salar del Hombre Muerto lithium reserves
in Argentina. Many of FMC's chemical plants require the basic raw materials,
which are provided by these FMC-owned or leased mines, without which other
sources would have to be obtained. With regard to FMC's mining properties
operated under long-term leases, no single lease or related group of leases is
material to the businesses or to the company as a whole.

Most of FMC's plant sites are owned, with an immaterial number of them being
leased.  FMC believes its properties and facilities meet present requirements
and are in good operating condition and that each of its significant
manufacturing facilities is operating at a level consistent with the industry in
which it operates. The number and location of FMC's production properties for
continuing operations are:


                                            Latin
                                            -----
                                           America
                                           -------
                                 United      and     Western
                                 ------      ---     -------
                                 States     Canada   Europe     Other    Total
                                --------   -------- ---------  -------  -------
Energy Systems                         8         5          5        5       23
Food and Transportation
 Systems                              10         2          7        1       20
Agricultural Products                  6         1          -        3       10
Specialty Chemicals                    4         2          7        1       14
Industrial Chemicals                  14         2         14        -       30
                                      --        --         --       --       --
    Total                             42        12         33       10       97
                                      ==        ==         ==       ==       ==

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Environmental Proceedings
- -------------------------

In June 1999, the Federal District Court in Idaho approved a Consent Decree
signed by the company, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
("EPA")(Region X) and the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") settling
outstanding alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
("RCRA") at the company's Phosphorus Chemicals ("PCD") plant in Pocatello,
Idaho.  The RCRA Consent Decree provides for injunctive relief covering
remediation expense for closure of existing ponds, estimated at $50 million, and
in excess of $100 million of capital costs for waste treatment and other
compliance projects, including supplemental environmental projects.  These
amounts will be expended over approximately four years.  As described in Note 4
to the consolidated financial statements, included in the 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders, an expected increase in capital costs for

                                     Page 9


environmental compliance contributed to an impairment in the value of PCD's
assets during the fourth quarter of 1997. The company provided for the estimated
expenses related to the Consent Decree in prior periods.

In addition, FMC signed a second Consent Decree with the EPA, which was lodged
in court on July 21, 1999.  The Consent Decree relates to a Record of Decision
("ROD") issued by the EPA in 1998 which addresses previously closed ponds on the
FMC portion of the Eastern Michaud Flats Superfund site, including FMC's PCD
Pocatello, Idaho, facility.  The remedy the EPA selected in the ROD is a
combination of capping, surface runoff controls and institutional controls for
soils, with a contingency for extraction and recycling for hydraulic control of
groundwater.  FMC believes its reserves for environmental costs adequately
provide for the estimated costs of the Superfund remediation plan for the site
and the expenses previously described related to the RCRA Consent Decree.

On October 21, 1999 the Federal District Court for the Western District of
Virginia approved a Consent Decree signed by the company, the EPA (Region III)
and the DOJ regarding past response costs and future clean-up work at the
discontinued fiber manufacturing site in Front Royal, Virginia.  As part of a
prior settlement, government agencies are expected to reimburse FMC for
approximately one third of the clean up costs due to the government's role at
the site. FMC's $70 million portion of the settlement was provided for in 1998
and prior years, and no additional charge to earnings was recorded in 1999.

See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (pages 50-51 of the 1999
Annual Report to Stockholders) for a discussion of legal proceedings against
other Potentially Responsible Parties and insurers for contribution and/or
coverage with respect to environmental remediation costs.


Other
- -----

On April 14, 1998, a jury returned a verdict against the company in the amount
of $125.0 million in conjunction with a federal False Claims Act action, in
which Mr. Henry Boisvert filed and ultimately took to trial allegations that the
company had filed false claims for payment in connection with its contract to
provide Bradley Fighting Vehicles to the U.S. Army between 1981 and 1996.  Under
law, portions of the jury verdict were subject to doubling or trebling.  On
December 24, 1998, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California entered judgment for Mr. Boisvert in the amount of approximately $87
million.  This was approximately $300 million less than the maximum judgment
possible under the jury verdict.  The reduction resulted from several rulings by
the District Court in favor of the company in the post-trial motions.  Briefing
on cross-appeals by both parties to the U.S. Court of

                                    Page 10


Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has been completed, and it is probable that oral
arguments will be heard during 2000. Both sides are asserting arguments on
appeal, and a number of the company's arguments, if successful, would alter or
eliminate the amount of the existing judgment. Any legal proceeding is subject
to inherent uncertainty, and it is not possible to predict how the appellate
court will rule. Therefore, the company's management believes based on a review,
including a review by outside counsel, that it is not possible to estimate the
amount of a probable loss, if any, to the company that might result from some
adverse aspects of the judgment ultimately standing against the company.
Accordingly, no provision for this matter has been made in the company's
consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

The executive officers of FMC Corporation, together with the offices in FMC
Corporation currently held by them, their business experience since January 1,
1995, and their ages as of March 1, 2000, are as follows:



                                    Page 11




Each of the company's executive officers has been employed by the company in a
managerial capacity for the past five (5) years except for Mr. Hester.  No
family relationships exist among any of the above-listed officers, and there are
no arrangements or understandings between any of the above-listed officers and
any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. All officers are
elected to hold office for one (1) year and until their successors are elected
and qualified.

                                    Page 12


                                    PART II

                                             Incorporated by Reference From:

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR                  -      1999 Annual Report to
          REGISTRANT'S COMMON                Stockholders, pages 30, 37
          EQUITY AND RELATED                 and 56, and Notes 11 and 12
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                to the consolidated
                                             financial statements on
                                             pages 47-48

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL          -      1999 Annual Report to
          DATA                               Stockholders, pages 54-55

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S                -      1999 Annual Report to
          DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS            Stockholders, pages 22-31
          OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND            -      1999 Annual Report to
          QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES            Stockholders, page 30
          ABOUT MARKET RISK

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL                   -      1999 Annual Report to
          STATEMENTS AND                     Stockholders, pages 16-17
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                 and 32-52
          (INCLUDING ALL SCHEDULES
          REQUIRED UNDER ITEM 14 OF
          PART IV)

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND              -      None
          DISAGREEMENTS WITH
          ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL
          DISCLOSURE

                                    Page 13


                                    PART III

                                          Incorporated by Reference From:

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND              -    Part I; Proxy Statement for
          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS              2000 Annual Meeting of
          OF THE REGISTRANT               Stockholders, pages 3-8

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE                  -    Proxy Statement for 2000
          COMPENSATION                    Annual Meeting of
                                          Stockholders, pages 14-20

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP         -    Proxy Statement for 2000
          OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL           Annual Meeting of
          OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT           Stockholders, pages 12-13

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATION-          -    Proxy Statement for 2000
          SHIPS AND RELATED               Annual Meeting of
          TRANSACTIONS                    Stockholders, page 11

                                    Page 14


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  Documents filed with this Report

          1. Consolidated financial statements of FMC Corporation and its
             subsidiaries are incorporated under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

          2. All required financial statement schedules are included in the
             consolidated financial statements or notes thereto as incorporated
             under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

             All other schedules are omitted because of the absence of
             conditions under which they are required or because information
             called for is shown in the financial statements and notes thereto
             in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders.

          3. Exhibits:  See attached Index of Exhibits

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          During the quarter ended December 31, 1999, the Registrant filed
          reports on Form 8-K as follows:

          Date                     Subject
          ----                     -------
          December 16, 1999        FMC's anticipated growth in fourth quarter
                                   and full year 1999 earnings from continuing
                                   operations.

     (c)  Exhibits

          See Index of Exhibits beginning on page 17 of this document.

                                    Page 15


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              FMC CORPORATION
                              (Registrant)

                              By:  /s/ William H. Schumann III
                                   ---------------------------
                                    William H. Schumann III
                                    Senior Vice President and
                                    Chief Financial Officer
Date:  March 29, 2000



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.


Signature                Title
- ---------                -----

William H. Schumann III  Senior Vice President and   /s/ William H. Schumann III
                          Chief Financial Officer    ---------------------------
                                                     William H. Schumann III
                                                     March 29, 2000


Ronald D. Mambu          Vice President, Controller  /s/ Ronald D. Mambu
                         and Principal Accounting    -------------------------
                         Officer                     Ronald D. Mambu
                                                     March 29, 2000

Robert N. Burt           Chairman of the Board and   /s/ Robert N. Burt
                         Chief Executive Officer     -------------------------
Joseph H. Netherland     President                   /s/ Joseph H. Netherland
                                                     -------------------------
B.A. Bridgewater, Jr.    Director                    /s/ B.A. Bridgewater, Jr.
                                                     -------------------------
Patricia A. Buffler      Director                    /s/ Patricia A. Buffler
                                                     -------------------------
Albert J. Costello       Director                    /s/ Albert J. Costello
                                                     -------------------------
Paul L. Davies, Jr.      Director                    /s/ Paul L. Davies, Jr.
                                                     -------------------------
Asbjorn Larsen           Director                    /s/ Asbjorn Larsen
                                                     -------------------------
Edward J. Mooney         Director                    /s/ Edward J. Mooney
                                                     -------------------------
William F. Reilly        Director                    /s/ William F. Reilly
                                                     -------------------------
Enrique J. Sosa          Director                    /s/ Enrique J. Sosa
                                                     -------------------------
James R. Thompson        Director                    /s/ James R. Thompson
                                                     -------------------------
Clayton Yeutter          Director                    /s/ Clayton Yeutter
                                                     -------------------------

                                    Page 16


                        INDEX OF EXHIBITS FILED WITH OR
                         INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO
                          FORM 10-K OF FMC CORPORATION
                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999


Exhibit
- -------
No.       Exhibit Description
- --        -------------------

2.1       Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 25, 1997, by and among FMC
          Corporation, Harsco Corporation, Harsco UDLP Corporation and Iron
          Horse Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to
          the Form 8-K/A filed on October 16, 1997)

3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as filed on June 23, 1998
          (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Form S-3 filed on
          July 21, 1998)

3.2       Restated By-Laws of the company, amended as of February 20, 1998
          (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.3 to the Annual Report on
          Form 10-K filed on March 17, 1998)

4.1       Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of February 19, 1988,
          between Registrant and Harris Trust and Savings Bank (incorporated by
          reference from Exhibit 4 to the Form SE (File No. 1-02376) filed on
          March 25, 1993)

4.2       Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated February 9,
          1996 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 1 to the Form 8-K filed
          on February 9, 1996)

4.3       $450,000,000 Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 6, 1996,
          among FMC Corporation, the Lenders Party thereto and Morgan Guaranty
          Trust Company of New York as Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
          Arranger (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.3 to 1998 Annual
          Report on Form 10-K filed on March 25, 1999)

4(iii)(A) Registrant undertakes to furnish to the Commission upon request, a
          copy of any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term
          debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries and for any
          of its unconsolidated subsidiaries for which financial statements are
          required to be filed

                                    Page 17


10.1*    FMC 1997 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended April
         18, 1997 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly
         Report on Form 10-Q filed May 15, 1997)

10.1.a*  Amendment of FMC Corporation 1997 Plan for Non-Employee Directors

10.2*    FMC 1981 Incentive Share Plan, as amended, effective May 28, 1986
         (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Form SE (File No.
         1-02376) filed on March 25, 1993)

10.3*    FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit
         10.1 to the Form SE (File No. 1-02376) filed on March 26, 1991)

10.3.a*  Amendment dated April 18, 1997 to FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan
         (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3.a to the Quarterly Report
         on Form 10-Q filed on May 15, 1997)

10.3.b*  Amendment to the FMC 1990 Incentive Share Plan

10.4*    FMC Corporation Employees' Retirement Program, as amended and restated
         effective January 1, 1999

10.4.a*  First Amendment of FMC Corporation Employee's Retirement Program Part I
         Salaried and Non-Union Hourly Employees' Plan

10.4.b*  First Amendment of FMC Corporation Employees' Retirement Program Part
         II Union Employees' Plan (dated September 16, 1999)

10.5*    FMC Corporation Savings and Investment Plan, as amended and restated as
         of January 1, 1999

10.6*    FMC Salaried Employees' Equivalent Retirement Plan (incorporated by
         reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form SE (File No. 1-02376) filed on
         March 27, 1992)

10.7*    FMC Corporation Non-Qualified Retirement and Thrift Plan (incorporated
         by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
         on March 17, 1998)

10.8*    FMC 1995 Management Incentive Plan, as amended as of October 17, 1997
         (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.9 to the Annual Report on
         Form 10-K filed on March 17, 1998)

_______________________
*   Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                    Page 18


10.9*    FMC 1995 Stock Option Plan, as amended as of April 18, 1997
         (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to the Form 10-Q filed on
         May 15, 1997)

10.9.a*  Amendment to the FMC 1995 Stock Option Plan (As Amended 4/18/97) (Dated
         September 16, 1999)

10.10*   FMC Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended as of April 18,
         1997 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.11 to the Annual Report
         on Form 10-K filed on March 17, 1998)

10.11*   Master Trust Agreement between FMC Corporation and Fidelity Management
         Trust Company, dated June 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference from
         Exhibit 10.12 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 17,
         1998)

10.12*   FMC Corporation Defined Benefit Retirement Trust, as amended and
         restated as of August 31, 1999

10.13    Fiscal Agency Agreement between FMC Corporation and Union Bank of
         Switzerland, Fiscal Agent, dated as of January 16, 1990 (incorporated
         by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the Form SE (File No. 1-02376) filed
         on March 28, 1990)

10.15    Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
         25, 1997, by and among FMC Corporation, Harsco Corporation, Harsco UDLP
         Corporation and Iron Horse Acquisition Corp. (incorporated by reference
         from Exhibit 16.1 to the Form 8-K/A filed on December 23, 1997)

10.16    Allocation and Contribution Agreement, by and among FMC Corporation,
         Harsco Corporation and Harsco UDLP Corporation (incorporated by
         reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K/A filed on December 23,
         1997)

12       Statement re Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

13       1999 Annual Report to Stockholders is included as an Exhibit to this
         report for the information of the Securities and Exchange Commission
         and, except for those portions thereof specifically incorporated by
         reference elsewhere herein, such Annual Report should not be deemed
         filed as a part of this report.

21       List of Significant Subsidiaries of Registrant

23       Consent of KPMG LLP

24       Powers of Attorney

27       Financial Data Schedule

__________________
* Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                    Page 19

