
10-K
10-K



===============================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

/X/   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1993
                                       OR
/ /   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
                   For the transition period from         to

                         Commission file number 1-3671

                          GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (703) 876-3000
                                                          --------------
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X     No
                                               ----     ----

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment of this Form 10-K. ----

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the Registrant was $2,492,779,308 at 11 March 1994, calculated in accordance
with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules as to beneficial ownership.

         63,340,390 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock were outstanding at
11 March 1994 (adjusted for two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend declared 4 March 1994 and payable 11 April 1994 to
shareholders of record 21 March 1994).

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

         Parts I, II and IV incorporate information from certain portions of
the Registrant's 1993 Shareholder Report.

         Part III incorporates information from certain portions of the
Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.
===============================================================================



                                    PART I

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

         General Dynamics Corporation (the Company) is a Delaware corporation
formed in 1952 as successor to the Electric Boat Company, now the Company's
Nuclear Submarines business.  Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corporation was
merged into the Company in 1954 and from it emerged the Company's former
Tactical Military Aircraft and Missile Systems businesses and the Space Launch
Systems business.  The Material Service Resources Company is the successor to
the Material Service Corporation which was merged into the Company in 1959.
Chrysler Defense, Inc., now the Company's Armored Vehicles business, was
acquired in 1982.  The Cessna Aircraft Company, formerly the Company's General
Aviation business, was acquired in 1985.  In addition, the Company operates
other smaller businesses.

        Prior to 1992, the businesses of the Company included the following:
Tactical Military Aircraft, Nuclear Submarines, Armored Vehicles, Space Launch
Systems, Missile Systems and General Aviation.  Over the past two years, the
Company has sold its Tactical Military Aircraft, Missile Systems and General
Aviation businesses, as well as certain other smaller businesses, and the sale
of its Space Launch Systems business is expected to close by April 1994.  The
Company's remaining continuing business segments are Nuclear Submarines,
Armored Vehicles and Other.  The Other business segment is composed of Freeman
Energy Corporation (Freeman), American Overseas Marine Corporation (AMSEA) and
Patriot I, II and IV Shipping Corporations (Patriots).  A general description
of these businesses including products, properties and other related
information follows.  For financial information and further discussion of
the business segments, as well as an overall discussion of the Company's
business environment, reference is made to Management's Discussion and Analysis
of the Results of Operations and Financial Condition, appearing on pages 12
through 17 in the Company's 1993 Shareholder Report, included in this Form
10-K-Annual Report as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference.

NUCLEAR SUBMARINES

         The Company's Electric Boat Division (Electric Boat) is a designer and
builder of nuclear submarines for the U.S. Navy.  Electric Boat also performs
overhaul and repair work on submarines as well as a broad range of engineering
work including advanced research and technology development, systems and
component design evaluation, prototype development and logistics support to the
operating fleet.  Certain components and subassemblies of the submarines, such
as electronic equipment, are produced by other firms.

        Electric Boat has contracts for SSN 688-class attack submarines (SSN
688), Trident ballistic missile submarines (Trident) and Seawolf class attack
submarines, all of which are currently under construction at its 96 acre
shipyard on the Thames River at Groton, Connecticut.  The shipyard, which
contains a covered area in excess of 2.6 million square feet, is owned by the
Company.  Electric Boat also produces modular submarine hull sections,
components and subassemblies in leased facilities at Quonset Point, Rhode
Island, and in Company-owned facilities at Avenel, New Jersey and Charleston,
South Carolina. Due to the winding down of the SSN 688 and Trident programs,
the Company has announced that it plans to close the Charleston facility in
early 1994.  Approximately 45% of Electric Boat's property, plant and equipment
was fully depreciated at 31 December 1993.

           Electric Boat competed with Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock
Company (Newport News) for construction of the SSN 688 and Seawolf submarines.
Electric Boat is currently the sole-source producer of Trident and Seawolf
submarines.  For most engineering work, Electric Boat competes in a highly
competitive environment with several smaller specialized firms in addition to
Newport News.

ARMORED VEHICLES

         The Company's Land Systems Division (Land Systems) is the sole-source
producer of main battle tanks for the U.S. Government.  Land Systems designs
and manufactures the M1 Series Abrams Main Battle Tank for the U.S. Army and
the U.S. Marine Corps.  Land Systems also performs engineering and upgrade work
as well as provides support for existing armored vehicles.  Production of the
M1A1, a version of the M1 that incorporates increased firepower, additional
crew protection features, and improved armor, was initiated in 1985.
Production of the M1A2, the latest version of the M1 which incorporates
battlefield management systems aimed at providing improved fightability, as
well as improved survivability of the tank's four crew members, was initiated
in 1992.  In addition to domestic sales, M1 tanks are being sold through the
U.S. Government to various foreign governments.  Land Systems provides
training in operation and maintenance and other logistical support on
international sales.






                                     - 1 -

        Certain components of the M1 series tank, such as the engine and the
transmission and final drive, are produced by other firms.  Land Systems has
bid and is currently bidding on other armored vehicle and related programs for
the U.S. Government in competition primarily with FMC Corporation.  The
current international market is characterized by intense competition for a
limited number of business opportunities. The Company has been successful in
competitive bids for production contracts and related logistic support with
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, but was unsuccessful on similar bids with the
United Arab Emirates and Sweden.

         Tank production is performed at the 1.6 million square foot plant on
370 acres in Lima, Ohio, and machining operations are performed at the 1.2
million square foot plant on 145 acres in Warren (Detroit), Michigan.  Each is
owned by the U.S. Government and operated by Land Systems under a facilities
contract.  In support of these plants, Land Systems leases property in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, and owns or leases property in various locations in
Michigan.

         The Company, teamed with Tadiran Ltd. of Israel, was selected during
1988 as the second-source producer of the Single Channel Ground and Airborne
Radio System (SINCGARS).  The Company is currently participating in its first
competitive bid under the SINCGARS program with ITT Corporation.  A decision on
the competition is expected during the first half of 1994.  The Company leases
space in Tallahassee, Florida to support SINCGARS production.

OTHER

          Freeman mines coal, the majority of which is sold in the spot market
or under short-term contracts to a variety of customers.  Freeman's remaining
coal production (approximately 45%) is sold under long-term contracts to
utilities and industrial users located principally in the Midwest. Several of
these long-term contracts have price adjustment clauses to reflect changes in
certain costs of production.  Freeman operates three underground mines and one
surface mine in Illinois, along with one surface mine in Kentucky.  Coal
preparation facilities and rail loading facilities are located at each mine
sufficient for its output.  Total production from Freeman's mines was
approximately 5 million tons in 1993, 4.5 million tons in 1992 and 3.6 million
tons in 1991.  In addition, Freeman owns or leases rights to over 600
million tons of coal reserves in Illinois and Kentucky.  Due to the commodity
nature of the Company's coal operations, the primary factors affecting
competition are price and geographic service area.  Freeman's operations are
not significantly affected by seasonal variations.

         The 1990 Clean Air Act requires, among other things, a phased
reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions by coal burning facilities over the next
few years.  Virtually all of the coal in Freeman's Illinois basin mines has
medium or high sulfur content.  The impact of compliance with the Clean Air Act
will be mitigated in the near-term by Freeman's long-term contracts and through
installation of pollution control devices by certain of Freeman's major
customers.  The long-term impact of the Clean Air Act is not known.

         AMSEA provides ship management services for five of the U.S. Navy's
Maritime Prepositioning Ships (MPS) and twelve of the U.S. Maritime
Administration's Ready Reserve Force (RRF) ships.  The MPS are under five year
contracts which expire in 1995 and 1996 but are renewable through the year
2011.  The RRF ships are in the first year of five year contracts for which the
Company competed with various other ship management providers.  The MPS vessels
operate worldwide and the RRF vessels are located on the east, gulf and west
coasts of the United States.  AMSEA's home office is in Quincy, Massachusetts.

         Patriots are financing subsidiaries which lease liquefied natural gas
tankers constructed by the Company to unrelated third parties.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

         The Company has sold or intends to sell certain businesses that are
reported as discontinued operations in the Company's financial statements.  The
remaining businesses are as follows:

        The Company's Convair Division is the sole-source producer of fuselages
for the McDonnell Douglas Corporation (McDonnell Douglas) MD-11 wide body
tri-jet aircraft.  Production work is performed in San Diego, California in
facilities owned by the Company which are on land leased from the San Diego
Port Authority.

         Material Service Corporation (Material Service) is engaged in the
quarrying and direct sale of aggregates (e.g. stone, sand and gravel), and the
production and direct sale of ready mix concrete and other concrete products.
Material Service's aggregate and concrete facilities and operations are located
primarily in Illinois.




                                     - 2 -


REAL ESTATE HELD FOR DEVELOPMENT

         As part of the sale of businesses, certain related properties were

retained by the Company.  These properties have been segregated on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as real estate held for development.  The Company
has retained outside experts to support the development of plans which will
maximize the market value of these properties. These properties include: 232
acres in Kearny Mesa and 2,420 acres in Sycamore Canyon, both of which are in
the vicinity of San Diego, California; 375 acres in Rancho Cucamonga,
California; and 53 acres in Camden, Arkansas.  Most of this property is
undeveloped.  The Company owns 3.7 million square feet of building space on the
aforementioned properties, as well as .6 million square feet of building space
on land leased from the San Diego Port Authority.  Certain of these facilities
are currently being leased by the purchasers of the related sold businesses for
what is expected to be a short transition period.

GENERAL INFORMATION

Backlog
- -------
         The following table shows the approximate backlog of the Company
(excluding discontinued operations) as calculated at 31 December 1993 and 1992
and the portion of the 31 December 1993 backlog not reasonably expected to be
filled during 1994 (dollars in millions):



         Backlog represents the total estimated remaining sales value of
authorized work.  Backlog excludes announced orders for which definitive
contracts have not been executed, except for amounts funded prior to
definitization.  Funded backlog includes amounts that have been appropriated by
the U.S. Congress, and authorized and funded by the procuring agency.  Funded
backlog also includes amounts which have been authorized on Foreign Military
Sales and long-term coal contracts.  Unfunded backlog includes amounts for
which there is no assurance that congressional appropriations or agency
allotments will be forthcoming.  Insofar as the backlog represents orders from
the U.S. Government, it is subject to cancellation and other risks associated
with government contracts (see "U.S. Government Contracts").

U. S. Government Contracts
- --------------------------
         The Company's net sales to the U.S. Government include Foreign
Military Sales (FMS).  FMS are sales to foreign governments through the U.S.
Government, whereby the Company contracts with and receives payment from the
U.S. Government and the U.S. Government assumes the risk of collection from the
customer.  U.S. Government sales were as follows (excluding discontinued
operations; dollars in millions):





                                     - 3 -

         All U.S. Government contracts are terminable at the convenience of the
U.S. Government, as well as for default.  Under contracts terminable at the
convenience of the U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of
fees or earnings for the work done.  Contracts which are terminated for default
generally provide that the U.S.  Government only pays for the work it has
accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of
reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.  In 1991, the
U.S. Navy terminated the Company's A-12 aircraft contract for default.  For 
further discussion, see Item 3 of this report.

         Companies engaged in supplying goods and services to the U.S.
Government are dependent on congressional appropriations and administrative
allotment of funds, and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government policies
resulting from various military and political developments.  U.S. Government
contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are
subject to significant changes in contract scheduling.  Often the contracts
call for successful design and production of very complex and technologically
advanced items.

Foreign Sales and Operations
- ----------------------------
         The major portion of sales and operating earnings of the Company for
the past three years was derived from operations in the United States. 
Although the Company purchases supplies from and subcontracts with foreign
companies, it has no substantial operations in foreign countries.  The majority
of foreign sales are made as FMS through the U.S. Government, but certain
direct foreign sales are made of components and support services. Direct
foreign sales were $35 million, $42 million and $50 million in 1993, 1992 and
1991, respectively.

         The Company has indirect offset commitments relating to foreign
contracts, whereby the Company provides economic benefits to the buying country
through marketing assistance, technology transfers, direct procurement of
products not related to the primary contract, and direct investments.

Research and Development
- ------------------------
         Research and development activities in the Nuclear Submarines and
Armored Vehicles segments are conducted principally under U.S.  Government
contracts.  These research efforts are generally either concerned with
developing products for large systems development programs or performing work
under research and development technology contracts.  In addition, the defense
businesses engage in independent research and development, of which a
significant portion is recovered through overhead charges to U.S. Government
contracts.

         The table below details expenditures (excluding discontinued
operations) for research and development (dollars in millions):



Supplies
- --------
         Many items of equipment and components used in the production of the
Company's products are purchased from other manufacturers.  Although the
Company has a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, it is dependent upon
the ability of its suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality
specifications and delivery schedules.  In some cases it is dependent on one or
a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or
because of domestic preference requirements pursuant to which it operates on a
given project.

         All of the Company's operations are dependent upon adequate supplies of
certain raw materials, such as aluminum and steel, and on adequate supplies of
fuel.  Fuel or raw material shortages could also have an adverse effect on the
Company's suppliers, thus impairing their ability to honor their contractual
commitments to the Company.  The Company has not experienced serious shortages
in any of the raw materials or fuel supplies that are necessary for its
production programs.







                                     - 4 -

Environmental Controls
- ----------------------
         Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
materials into the environment and other factors affecting the environment have
had and will continue to have an impact on the manufacturing operations of the
Company.  Thus far, compliance with the requirements has been accomplished
without material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position.  While it is expected that this will continue to be the
case, the Company cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future
requirements.

Patents
- -------
         Numerous patents and patent applications are owned by the Company and
utilized in its development activities and manufacturing operations.  It is
also licensed under patents owned by others.  While in the aggregate its
patents and licenses are considered important in the operation of the Company's
business, they are not considered of such importance that their loss or
termination would materially affect its business.  Engineering, production
skills and experience are more important to the Company than its patents or
licenses.

Employees
- ---------
        From the end of 1991 to the end of 1993, the Company's total employees
decreased from about 80,600 to about 30,500.  Approximately 70% of this
decrease is due to the disposition of businesses in which the employees of the
disposed businesses were transferred to the acquiring companies.

         At the end of 1993, approximately 40% of the Company's employees were
covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, the most
significant of which are the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers, the Metal Trades Council of New London, Connecticut, the
United Auto Workers Union (UAW), the Office and Professional Employees
International Union and the United Mine Workers of America.  During 1994, three
collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 20% of the union
represented work force, are scheduled to expire and are subject to negotiations
with the respective unions, the most significant of which is the UAW at Land
Systems.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         The information required for this item is included in Item 1 of this
report.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         As previously reported, the Company is a defendant in U.S. vs. Davis
et al, a civil action in the Federal District Court for the Southern District
of New York in which the U.S. Government alleges claims under the Civil False
Claims Act.  A judgment in favor of the Company was entered on 2 October 1992. 
On 4 January 1993, the U.S. Government appealed the District Court's judgment
in favor of the Company.  This appeal is now pending.

         On 7 January 1991, the U.S. Navy terminated for default a contract
with the Company and McDonnell Douglas for the full-scale development of the
U.S. Navy's A-12 aircraft.  The U.S. Navy has demanded repayment of
unliquidated progress payments, but agreed to defer collection pending
resolution of the termination dispute.  The Company and McDonnell Douglas filed
a complaint in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims to contest the default
termination.  A trial on Count XVII of the complaint, which relates to the
propriety of the termination for default, was concluded in October 1993.  In
December 1993, the Court issued preliminary findings of fact which appear
favorable to the Company and McDonnell Douglas.  The Court will not issue a
decision before 21 July 1994, during which time other counts in the complaint
will be prepared for decision.  For further discussion, see Note P to the
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 29 in the Company's 1993
Shareholder Report, included in this Form 10-K-Annual Report as Exhibit 13 and
incorporated herein by reference.  The Company believes that ultimately it will
be found not to have been in default of the contract.

         The Company is a defendant in a shareholders' derivative action filed
in the California Superior Court for San Diego County on 17 January 1991.  The
suit was dismissed by the court on 10 May 1993, because the plaintiffs failed
to make a demand on the Board of Directors of the Company prior to bringing
action.  The period to amend the complaint has expired.





                                     - 5 -

         On 8 March 1993, a class action lawsuit, Berchin et al vs. General
Dynamics Corporation and William A. Anders, was filed in the Federal District
Court for the Southern District of New York.  The suit alleges violations of
various provisions of federal securities laws, fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, and breach of fiduciary duty by the defendants with regard
to disclosures made, or omitted, in the Company's tender offer completed in
July 1992 and the subsequent divestiture of core businesses.  The Company
believes there is no liability in connection with this matter and intends to
vigorously defend itself.

         The Company is directly or indirectly involved in seventeen Superfund
sites in which the Company, along with other major U.S.  corporations, has been
designated a potentially responsible party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) or a state environmental agency with respect to past
shipments of hazardous waste to sites now requiring environmental cleanup.

         Chatham Brothers Barrel Yard is a hazardous waste disposal site
located near Escondido, California.  The California Department of Toxic
Substances Control is overseeing a cleanup of the site pursuant to California
state laws and is seeking to recover its costs from a variety of PRPs,
including the Company and several other major corporations in the aerospace and
petroleum industries.  To date, California has incurred about $8.7 million in
costs, and estimates an additional $40 million to $60 million in investigation
and remediation costs.  Under the California equivalent of the federal
Superfund law, all of the PRPs are jointly and severally liable to the State of
California for these costs.

         The Casmalia Resources site is a former industrial waste disposal
facility located near Santa Maria, California.  Since March 1993, the Company
and a large number of other PRPs have been negotiating with the EPA to fund and
perform an environmental cleanup of this site.  Site investigation studies are
now just beginning, but estimates of total remediation costs have ranged from
$30 million to $150 million.

        The Company is also involved in the cleanup and remediation of various
conditions at sites it currently or formerly owned or operated, many of which
were sites used in the conduct of the Company's government contracting
business.  The Company believes that a portion of these costs are recoverable
under government contracts.  The Company has defenses to liability in some
cases, and in other cases the Company is acting to mitigate and minimize its
potential liability. The Company is participating in steering committees and
taking other actions to establish its percentage liability on an allocated and
sharing basis with other PRPs.  Although the Company's involvement and the
extent of the remediation varies from site to site, the Company believes, based
upon an analysis of each site, that its liability at the sites will not be
deemed material to the financial condition or results of operations of the
Company.

         Under the Federal Black Lung Benefits Act (the Act), a disabled coal
miner with coal worker's pneumoconiosis may be entitled to monthly compensation
for life.  Approximately 50 claims for benefits under the Act by former
employees of Freeman are pending and are in various stages of procedure,
including a substantial number which are being contested by the Company.  The
claims are reviewed by Administrative Law Judges of the U.S. Department of
Labor for determination of questions of disability and compensation.  Freeman
has outstanding approximately 40 claims which have been filed under the
Illinois Occupational Disease Act.  Many of the claims are disputed.  The
Company has established liabilities, on an actuarial basis, to pay for the
estimated costs of any benefits that are ultimately awarded.

         The Company is also a defendant in other lawsuits and claims and in
other investigations of varying nature.  The Company believes these
proceedings, in the aggregate, are not material to the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's Security Holders
during the fourth quarter of the year ended 31 December 1993.



                                     - 6 -

SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

         The name, age, offices and positions held for the last five years of
the Company's executive officers who are not directors are as follows:


        
        
        


                                     - 7 -



All executive officers of the Company are elected annually. There are no family
relationships, as defined, between any of the above executive officers. No
executive officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and any other person.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.        MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
               SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

         General Dynamics Corporation common stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange.

        The high and low market price of General Dynamics Corporation common
stock and the cash dividends declared for each quarterly period within the two
most recent fiscal years is included in Note T to the Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing on page 32 in the Company's 1993 Shareholder Report,
included in this Form 10-K - Annual Report as Exhibit 13 and incorporated
herein by reference.

         There were 24,496 common shareholders of record of General Dynamics
Corporation common stock at 31 December 1993.



ITEM 6.        SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The information on pages 12 through 17 and 34 of the 1993 Shareholder
Report, included in this Form 10-K -- Annual Report as Exhibit 13, is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.


ITEM 7.        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
               RESULTS OF OPERATION

         The information on pages 12 through 17 of the 1993 Shareholder Report,
included in this Form 10-K -- Annual Report as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 8.        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The information on pages 18 through 34 of the 1993 Shareholder Report,
included in this Form 10-K -- Annual Report as Exhibit 13, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.

ITEM 9.        CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
               AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.



                                     - 8 -



                                   PART III

         The information required to be set forth herein, Item 10, "Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant," Item 11, "Executive Compensation,"
Item 12, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," and
Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions," except for a list of
the Executive Officers which is provided in Part I of this report, is included
in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A, which
is incorporated herein by reference, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
ended 31 December 1993.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.       EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)       1. Financial Statements--See Index on page 11.
               2. Financial Statement Schedules--See Index on page 11.
               3. Exhibits--See Index on pages 17 through 19.

     (b)       Reports on Form 8-K

               There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the 4th Quarter
               of 1993.





                                     - 9 -

                                  SIGNATURES

         PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                        GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

                                        By:  /S/    J. Steven Keate
                                             ---------------------------------
                                                    J. Steven Keate
                                             Vice President and Controller 
29 March 1994

         PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON 29 MARCH 1994 BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON
BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED, INCLUDING A MAJORITY
OF THE DIRECTORS.

William A. Anders                       Chairman and Director
                                   
Thomas G. Ayers                         Director
                                   
Frank C. Carlucci                       Director
                                   
Nicholas D. Chabraja                    Director
                                   
William J. Crowe, Jr.                   Director
                                   
James S. Crown                          Director
                                   
Lester Crown                            Director
                                   
Charles H. Goodman                      Director
                                   
Harvey Kapnick                          Vice Chairman and Director
                                   
David S. Lewis                          Director
                                   
James R. Mellor                         Chief Executive Officer and Director
                                        (Principal Executive Officer)
                                   
Stanley C. Pace                         Director
                                   
Allen E. Puckett                        Director
                                   
Bernard W. Rogers                       Director
                                   
Elliot H. Stein                         Director
                                   
J. Steven Keate                         Vice President and Controller (Principal
                                        Financial and Accounting Officer)
                                   
                                        By: /S/    E. Alan Klobasa
                                           -----------------------------------
                                                   E. Alan Klobasa
                                                   Attorney-in-Fact
                                       
                                       



                                     - 10 -

                 INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                             ITEM 14(a) 1. AND 2.





All other schedules are not submitted because they are not applicable or not
required, or because the required information is included in the financial
statements or the notes thereto.

The Report of Independent Public Accountants and Consolidated Financial
Statements listed in the above Index under Shareholder Report, are included in
this Form 10-K -- Annual Report as Exhibit 13 and are incorporated herein by
reference.





                                     - 11 -

                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of General Dynamics Corporation:

         We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements included in General Dynamics
Corporation's 1993 Shareholder Report incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated 25 January 1994 (except with
respect to the stock split discussed in Note K, as to which the date is 4 March
1994).  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those
statements taken as a whole.  The schedules listed in the accompanying index
are the responsibility of the Company's management and are presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and
are not part of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects
the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.




                                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.

Washington, D.C.,
25 January 1994





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

         As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the
incorporation of our reports included and incorporated by reference into this
Form 10-K for the year ended 31 December 1993 into the Company's previously
filed registration statements on Form S-8 file numbers 33-23448, 2-23904,
2-23032, 2-28952, 2-50980, 2-24270 and 2-88053.




                                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.

Washington, D.C.,
29 March 1994





                                    - 12 -

                                      SCHEDULE I -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES
                                               31 DECEMBER 1993
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)





(a)   Included in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the
      Company's 1993 Shareholder Report.








                                                              - 13 -

                         SCHEDULE VII--GUARANTEES OF SECURITIES OF OTHER ISSUERS
                                               31 DECEMBER 1993
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)














                                                              - 14 -

                                      SCHEDULE IX--SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)






Notes:

(a)      Maturity ranges from overnight to six months from date of issue.  No
         borrowings have provisions for extensions of maturity.

(b)      Based on the amounts outstanding at the end of each day.








                                                              - 15 -

                   SCHEDULE X--SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT
                      INFORMATION--YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)







(a)      Continuing operations only.








                                                              - 16 -

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
          










                                                              - 17 -









                                                              - 18 -



                                     NOTES







                                    - 19 -

