10-K


w94591e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission file number 1-3671

General Dynamics Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(703) 876-3000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K.     Yes

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant was $13,094,497,759 as of June 29, 2003 (based on the closing
price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange).

198,200,263 shares of the registrant’s common stock were outstanding at January 31, 2004.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

Part III incorporates information from certain portions of the registrant’s
definitive proxy statement for the 2004 annual meeting of shareholders to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
close of the fiscal year.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are
based on management’s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “scheduled,”
“estimates” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended
to identify forward-looking statements, which include but are not limited to
projections of revenues, earnings, segment performance, cash flows, contract
awards, aircraft production, deliveries and backlog stability. Forward-looking
statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are not
guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties,
which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and trends may
differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a
variety of factors, including, without limitation:

•

General U.S. and international political and economic conditions;

•

Changing priorities in the U.S. government’s defense budget;

•

Termination of government contracts due to unilateral government action;

•

Differences in anticipated and actual program performance, including the
ability to perform under long-term fixed-price contracts within estimated
costs, and performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors;

•

Changing customer demand or preferences for business aircraft, including the
effects of economic conditions on the business–aircraft market;

•

Reliance on a large fleet customer for a significant portion of the firm
aircraft contracts backlog and the majority of the options backlog; and

•

The status or outcome of legal and/or regulatory proceedings.

All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in
the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the
company or any person acting on the company’s behalf are qualified by the
cautionary statements in this section. The company does not undertake any
obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking
statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after
the date of this report.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


(Dollars in millions, unless otherwise noted)

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

General Dynamics is a market leader in mission-critical information systems and
technologies; land and expeditionary combat vehicles, armaments and munitions;
shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. Incorporated in
Delaware, the company employs approximately 67,600 people and has a presence
worldwide.

Formed in 1952 through the combination of Electric Boat Company, Consolidated
Vultee and other entities, the company grew through internal development and
acquisitions but was largely dismantled in the early 1990s through the sale of
all of its divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. The company’s
present composition is the result of a series of acquisitions begun in 1995. At
that time, General Dynamics began an expansion of its two core defense
businesses, broadening its product lines through the acquisition of other
shipyards and combat vehicle-related entities. The company also added
information technology products and services, particularly in the
command-and-control, communications, computing, intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance (C4ISR) area, and business-jet aircraft and aviation support
services to its offerings. Since 1995, General Dynamics has acquired more than
30 businesses, including seven during 2003.

General Dynamics’ management focus is creating shareholder value while
providing the best products and services possible to its customers, both
military and commercial. The company emphasizes excellence in program
management through continuous operational improvements and ethical business
practices. This culture is evident in how the company deals with shareholders,
employees, customers, partners and communities.

General Dynamics is organized into four primary business groups: Information
Systems and Technology, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Aerospace. These
groups design, develop, manufacture and support leading-edge technology,
products and services for use across the spectrum of military operations. From
nuclear submarines to Stryker armored infantry carriers, ammunition to
targeting systems, tactical Personal Digital Assistants to combat
search-and-rescue radios, General Dynamics supports the combat warrior on land,
at sea, in the air and on the network. The company’s Gulfstream business-jet
aircraft serve business travelers around the world, as well as government
customers as special mission platforms for intelligence, surveillance,
reconnaissance and transport.

In addition to the four principal business groups, a small Resources group
provides construction aggregates and operates coal mines.

Following is a description of the company’s products and services by business
group, competition and other related information.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

The Information Systems and Technology group is a leading integrator of secure
communications systems and networks; command, control and intelligence systems;
special purpose computing; and surveillance and reconnaissance systems for the
U.S. military, the U.S. intelligence community and allied nations. The group
supplies products, infrastructure and integration services that are used to
gather, process and disseminate information rapidly and accurately. The group
provides a full spectrum of information and communications technologies,
including:

•

Ruggedized computing
and communications systems to support battlefield command-and-control and information processing;

•

Specialized radio technologies that enable communication among strategic, theater and tactical assets;

•

A variety of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) products,
systems and support services for defense and intelligence agencies;

•

Networking capabilities;

•

Processors, communications devices and ground support for space operations; and

•

Highly skilled technical personnel who frequently are embedded in military
and intelligence operations around the world to support sophisticated national
security systems.

The group is a key participant in transformational initiatives that use digital
information technologies to provide defense assets with secure, on-demand
access to mission-critical information, assisting warfighters to prevail on
today’s battlefields as well as the battlefields of the future.

The Information Systems and Technology group was created through acquisitions
starting in 1997. It has grown to become the company’s largest segment,
contributing 30 percent of the company’s revenues in 2003. This growth reflects
the increasing importance of digital, network-centric C4ISR and
information-sharing technologies in the defense and intelligence communities.
As the armed services seek information superiority to improve the agility,
responsiveness, lethality and survivability of their forces, there are
significant opportunities for companies that can provide robust combat
platforms integrated with mission-critical information systems.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



In 2003, three acquisitions expanded the group’s market offerings in
intelligence-related information processing, technical support to national
security organizations and sensor fusion for naval warfare:

•

In March, the company acquired Creative Technology Incorporated, whose
employees support the intelligence community and the Department of Defense by
delivering systems and network engineering, integration, software development,
and operations and technical consulting.

•

In August, the company acquired Veridian Corporation, a provider of network
security and enterprise protection; ISR systems development and integration;
decision support; information systems development and integration; chemical,
biological and nuclear detection capabilities; network and enterprise
management services; and large-scale systems engineering to the Department of
Defense, the Department of Homeland Security and the intelligence community.

•

In September, the company acquired Digital System Resources, Inc., a provider
of surveillance and combat systems for submarines and surface ships.

The group also combined two existing business units into a single C4 Systems
organization to achieve the critical mass necessary to fully meet the growing
demand for secure, mobile military communications systems, networks and
products. The company’s command-and-control systems assist its customers in
assessing the battlefield, planning missions, deploying people and equipment
and communicating.

Information Systems and Technology’s contract portfolio includes over 2,000
contracts. While no one of these individually has a significant impact on the
group’s overall performance, some of its notable programs and offerings include
the continued development and deployment of the Rescue 21 search-and-rescue and
command-and-control communications system for the U.S. Coast Guard; additional
fielding of the BOWMAN tactical communications system to the United Kingdom’s
defense forces; upgrades to the Trident ballistic-missile fire-control system
for Ohio-class submarines; and deliveries of additional high-speed, high-level
encryption products to defense and national security customers.

The future battlefield requires speed, accuracy, reliability and security of
information transmitted to the warfighter and decision makers. The company
believes that the Information Systems and Technology group is well positioned,
with both the U.S. and allied militaries, to continue to expand its product and
service offerings and its customer base.

Net sales for the Information Systems and Technology group were 30 percent of
the company’s consolidated net sales in 2003, 27 percent in 2002 and 22 percent
in 2001. Net sales by major products and services were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




Communications systems

$

1,556

$

1,201

$


Command-and-control and intelligence systems

1,360



Special-purpose computing,
surveillance and
reconnaissance systems

1,059



Network infrastructure systems

1,003



$

4,978

$

3,681

$

2,691

COMBAT SYSTEMS

As a leading provider of tracked and wheeled armored combat vehicles, armament
systems and ammunition in North America, Europe and the South Pacific, and the
only producer of America’s main battle tanks, the Combat Systems group delivers
key products and technologies to U.S. and allied military forces.

The group is one of the preferred suppliers of land and expeditionary combat
system development, production and support around the world. Combat Systems
conceives, engineers, manufactures and supports product lines that include a
full spectrum of armored vehicles, trucks and light wheeled vehicles, bridges,
suspensions, engines, transmissions, guns and ammunition handling systems,
turret and turret-drive systems, reactive armor, chemical and biohazard
detection products, ammunition and ordnance, and composite manufacturing.

During 2003, the Combat Systems group enhanced its product offerings and
engineering and production capabilities through three acquisitions, expanding
the group’s customer base and its relationships with existing customers:

•

In March, the company acquired General Motors Defense (GM Defense), a
manufacturer of wheeled armored vehicles and turrets. Prior to the acquisition,
General Dynamics and GM Defense were partners in a joint venture for the
transformational Stryker family of wheeled combat vehicles for the U.S. Army.
The unit also manufactures and supplies the Light Armored Vehicle (LAV) to
Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Saudi Arabia. Its MOWAG subsidiary produces
the Piranha combat vehicle for a number of international customers.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


•

In September, the company acquired substantially all of the assets of
Intercontinental Manufacturing Company (IMCO), a division of Datron,
Inc., and
an industry leader in the development and manufacture of aircraft bomb bodies
for the U.S. armed services, including almost all current series of 500-,
1,000- and 2,000-pound bombs used by the U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force.

•

In October, the company acquired Steyr Daimler Puch Spezialfahrzeug
Aktiengesellschaft & Company KG (Steyr), the developer of the Pandur family of
wheeled combat vehicles and the Ulan tracked infantry fighting vehicle. The
company already owned 25 percent of the common shares of Steyr as a result of
an investment made in 1999.

Upon completion of the Steyr acquisition, the group streamlined the reporting
relationships of its European land combat companies — Santa Bárbara Sistemas,
Steyr and MOWAG — into a single European Land Combat Systems unit, with a
central office in Vienna, Austria.

Combat Systems’ key programs include the continued manufacturing of Stryker
vehicles for the Army, as well as development of Mobile Gun System and Nuclear,
Biological and Chemical (NBC) Reconnaissance variants for the Stryker family of
vehicles. Importantly, the first Army Stryker Brigade Combat Team achieved full
operational readiness in 2003 and successfully deployed for action in Operation
Iraqi Freedom. The group also upgrades M1 Abrams tanks to incorporate the
latest technologies, and manufactures Pizarro Advanced Infantry Fighting
Vehicles for the Spanish army.

For the U.S. Marine Corps, Combat Systems is completing the development and
testing of the new Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV), formerly the Advanced
Amphibious Assault Vehicle. The EFV is designed to provide the Marines with an
expeditionary vehicle that enables quick deployment from the sea to an inland
objective with greater survivability and lethality. Initial production of over
1,000 vehicles is scheduled to begin in 2006 and continue to the end of the
next decade.

In addition, the Combat Systems group is a key participant in the development
of manned ground vehicles and emerging robotic technologies for the Army’s
Future Combat Systems (FCS) program. In 2003, it successfully demonstrated the
initial capability of a new guided rocket for tactical aircraft applications,
and it leads the development program for technology that will make the future
land soldier more lethal and survivable.

Each of these programs represents an important role for the Combat Systems
group in the future armed forces of the United States and its allies. In many
cases, the company is on the leading edge of the technology, engineering,
manufacturing or production capabilities that meet those customers’
requirements.

Net sales for the Combat Systems group were 25 percent of the company’s
consolidated net sales in 2003, 21 percent in 2002 and 19 percent in 2001. Net
sales by major products and services were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




Medium armored vehicles and
related products

$

1,227

$


$


Main battle tanks and
related products




Engineering and development




Munitions and propellant




Rockets and missile components




Armament systems




Aerospace components and other




$

4,166

$

2,923

$

2,210

MARINE SYSTEMS

The Marine Systems group has three shipyards with a long, proud history of
providing the Navy with ships and submarines used to project the United States’
presence around the globe. Electric Boat manufactured the Navy’s first
submarine more than 100 years ago. The company’s two other shipyards have
demonstrated decades of innovation in developing destroyers and auxiliary ships
for the Navy. Today, the group is on the cutting edge of shipbuilding as it
participates in the design, development, manufacture and integration of the
complex platforms that are central to Seapower 21, the Navy’s transformation
vision.

With its experience and expertise in the development of surface, sub-surface
and support platforms, Marine Systems is a key partner with the Navy. Marine
Systems is leading the development of the new Virginia-class submarines, for
which it received the largest submarine order in U.S. history. Construction
work on the Virginia-class submarine is shared equally with the company’s
teaming partner. The Virginia Class will provide the Navy a key platform with
stealth, firepower and endurance, networked for communication with strategic
and surface forces, in its pursuit of undersea superiority. Complementing this
platform will be the Trident SSGN submarines, which the group is developing
through the conversion of four Trident ballistic-missile submarines. The
Trident SSGNs will be multi-mission submarines optimized for tactical strike
and special operations support, key capabilities for future engagements around
the world.

The group is the lead designer and producer of Arleigh Burke-class
guided-missile destroyers, one of the most advanced surface combatants in the
world. It is also one of three competitors developing preliminary designs for
the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship (LCS). The LCS platform is intended for defense
against terrorist swarm boats, mines and submarine threats in coastal areas.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Marine Systems also supports the far-reaching deployments of the Navy with its
auxiliary and support ships, facilitating the efficient delivery of crucial
supplies to U.S. forces around the world. It is leading the innovation of
at-sea replenishment with the T-AKE program. T-AKE is the first new Navy combat
logistics ship design in almost 20 years, using integrated electric-drive
propulsion to deliver high performance and lower cost. The group also provides
commercial ships, designing and manufacturing two roll-on/roll-off trailerships
for cargo shipping and four double-hull oil tankers.

In
addition, the group provides ship repair and other services to the Navy and
commercial customers.

The shipbuilding industry is central to the Navy’s Seapower 21 efforts to
transform into a more lethal, flexible, network-centric sea force of the
future. The company believes Marine Systems’ leadership in the design,
engineering, development and construction of naval platforms positions it for
continued partnership with the Navy for years to come.

Net sales for the Marine Systems group were 26 percent of the company’s
consolidated net sales in 2003 and 2002, and 30 percent in 2001. Net sales by
major products and services were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




Nuclear submarines

$

2,256

$

2,030

$

1,852

Surface combatants




Auxiliary and commercial ships




Repair and other services




$

4,271

$

3,650

$

3,612

AEROSPACE

The Aerospace group designs, develops, manufactures, markets and supports a
fleet of world-renowned business-jet aircraft, and provides aviation services
for business-jet aircraft. The group was created in 1999 when the company
acquired Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation. In 2001, the group added mid-size
aircraft to its product offerings with the acquisition of Galaxy Aerospace
Company, and formed a separate aviation services unit. Gulfstream has produced
more than 1,400 aircraft for customers around the world since 1958.

In 2003, the group broadened its offering of business-jet aircraft by
introducing a new aircraft and completing regulatory requirements for
production of other airframes. In addition, the group expanded its aviation
services operations to include the first Gulfstream-owned service center
outside the United States through an acquisition at the London Luton Airport in
the United Kingdom.

The new large-cabin, long-range Gulfstream G450, introduced in 2003, is an
entire aircraft upgrade of the best-selling business jet in its class — the
Gulfstream GIV/GIV-SP/G400. The G450 incorporates the most advanced avionics,
cockpit displays, aircraft systems, aerodynamic enhancements and flight safety features, and retains the aesthetic design and
signature windows that set Gulfstream aircraft apart from competing models. The
new G450, which is expected to receive certification later this year, was
designed for safety, performance, reliability, and passenger comfort and
productivity.

The group received Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) type and production
certification for the Gulfstream G550 model on August 14, 2003. The
large-cabin, ultra-long-range G550 can fly as high as 51,000 feet and can
travel at speeds up to Mach .885 and distances up to 6,750 nautical miles — the
longest range available in a business jet. In February 2004, the National
Aeronautic Association awarded its Collier Trophy to the G550, naming it “the
greatest achievement in aeronautics in the United States with respect to
improving performance, efficiency or safety of air or space vehicles” in 2003.

The Aerospace group also received type certification for its state-of-the-art
PlaneView

®

cockpit, as well as the first production certification for the
Gulfstream Enhanced Vision System (EVS). The Gulfstream EVS significantly
improves pilot situational awareness during conditions of reduced visibility,
both in flight and on the ground.

Additionally, in February 2004, the company further expanded its product line
by introducing the Gulfstream G350 model. Very similar in design to the G450,
the new aircraft delivers the same spacious cabin, advanced avionics and
cockpit systems, exceptional performance and reliability, but with a
slightly
reduced range and a lower price.

Looking beyond the commercial market, the group continued efforts to offer its
aircraft as platforms for ISR and other special mission applications by U.S.
and allied governments. It sold four G550 aircraft to the Israeli Ministry of
Defense for use as Compact Airborne Early Warning (CAEW) platforms, which will
take full advantage of the G550’s capabilities, endurance, reliability and low
operating cost. Additionally, the G450 was designated the platform of choice by
one of the two competitors in a pending U.S. military procurement for special
mission ISR applications.

The company formed General Dynamics Aviation Services in February 2001 to
better meet the maintenance needs of a variety of the most popular business-jet
aircraft available around the world. It serves a broad range of
business-aircraft owners through maintenance centers in Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Westfield, Massachusetts; West Palm Beach, Florida; Dallas, Texas; and Las
Vegas, Nevada.

With an expanded product line, the company believes the Aerospace group is well
positioned to take advantage of an encouraging market.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Net sales for the Aerospace group were 18 percent of the company’s consolidated
net sales in 2003, 24 percent in 2002 and 27 percent in 2001. Net sales by
major products and services were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




New aircraft

$

2,081

$

2,470

$

2,694

Aircraft services




Pre-owned aircraft




$

2,946

$

3,289

$

3,265

RESOURCES

The Resources group includes two businesses: a coal mining operation and an
aggregates operation that mines sand, stone and gravel for use in highway and
building construction. Net sales for these businesses represented approximately
1 percent of the company’s consolidated net sales in 2003 and 2 percent in 2002
and 2001. Net sales were $256 in 2003, $286 in 2002 and $276 in 2001.

For additional discussion of the company’s business groups, including
significant program wins in 2003, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information on the revenues, operating
earnings and identifiable assets attributable to each of the company’s business
groups, see Note R to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part
II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

COMPETITION

The company’s ability to compete successfully depends on the technical
excellence and reliability of its products and services, its reputation for
integrating complex systems, its leadership team’s successful management of the
company’s businesses and customer relationships, and the cost competitiveness
of its products and services. The company competes in two separate markets:
defense and business-jet aircraft.

DEFENSE MARKET

The defense market is served by numerous domestic and foreign companies that
offer a range of products and services and compete with the company for many of
its contracts. On occasion, the company is involved in subcontracting
relationships with some of these competitors. The key competitive factors in
this market are technological innovation, low-cost production, performance and
market knowledge.

The Information Systems and Technology group competes with a broad range of
entities, from large defense companies to smaller niche
competitors with specialized technologies. The Combat Systems group competes in
a market composed primarily of large domestic and foreign entities. The company
partners with some of these entities from time to time, and currently is in a
teaming arrangement with another U.S. defense contractor on the manned vehicle
portion of the FCS program. The Marine Systems group operates in a market with
only one other primary competitor, Northrop Grumman Corporation; the company is
also teamed with that competitor on several programs, including the
Virginia-class submarine construction contract. The Navy’s LCS program has
increased competition to now include other large aerospace companies seeking
opportunities as shipbuilding prime contractors.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET

Competition in the business-jet aircraft market generally is divided into
segments based on the cabin size, range and price of the aircraft. Aerospace
offers a total of nine products in the following market segments:

Model

Market Segment

Range (a)

G550

Large-cabin, Ultra-long-range

6,750

G500 (b)

Large-cabin, Ultra-long-range

5,800

G450 (c)

Large-cabin, Long-range

4,350

G400

Large-cabin, Long-range

4,100

G350 (c)

Large-cabin, Mid-range

3,800

G300

Large-cabin, Mid-range

3,600

G200

Large-cabin, Mid-range

3,400

G150 (d)

Wide-cabin, High-speed

2,700

G100

Mid-cabin, High-speed

2,700

(a) Nautical miles.

(b) Scheduled to enter service in 2004.

(c) Scheduled to enter service in 2005.

(d) Scheduled to enter service in 2006.

The company has at least one competitor in each market segment in which it
competes. The number of competitors increases in the segments that offer
shorter ranges. The key competitive factors in the business-jet market are the
performance characteristics of the aircraft, the quality and timeliness of the
service provided, the advances in technology offered, and innovative marketing
programs, including price. The company believes it competes favorably on these
criteria.

CUSTOMERS

The company’s primary customer is the U.S. government, particularly the
Department of Defense. In 2003, 66 percent of the company’s net sales were to
the U.S. government; 18 percent were to U.S. commercial customers; 11 percent
were directly to international defense customers; and the remaining 5 percent
were to international commercial customers.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



U.S. GOVERNMENT

The company’s net sales to the U.S. government were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




Direct

$

10,525

$

8,385

$

7,138

Foreign Military Sales (a)




Total U.S. government

$

11,027

$

8,806

$

7,319

Percent of total net sales


%


%


%

(a)

In addition to its international sales, the company sells to foreign
governments through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Under the FMS
program, the company contracts with and is paid by the U.S. government, and the
U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government
customer.

The company’s U.S. government sales are funded by customer budgets, which
operate on an October to September fiscal year. In February of each year, the
president presents the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget
proposes funding levels for every federal agency and is the result of months of
policy and program reviews throughout the Executive Branch. From February
through September of each year, the appropriations and authorization committees
of Congress review the president’s budget proposals and establish the funding
levels for the upcoming fiscal year in appropriations and authorization
legislation. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of
the President administers the funds to the agencies.

There are two primary risks associated with this process. First, the process
may be delayed or disrupted as a result of congressional schedules,
negotiations over funding levels among government programs or unforeseen world
events, potentially interrupting the funding for a contract. Second, some
contracts that span several years are funded annually, subjecting them to
potential schedule and content changes year to year and increasing the
challenges faced by program managers.

The company’s U.S. government business is performed under both
cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. The company’s contracts for
research, engineering, prototypes, repair and maintenance are often
cost-reimbursement arrangements, under which the customer reimburses the
company for allowable costs and pays a predetermined fee. The company’s
production contracts are largely fixed-price, in which the company agrees to
perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. In 2003,
cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 47
percent and 53 percent, respectively, of the company’s government business.

Cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts each present advantages and
disadvantages for the company. Cost-reimbursement
contracts generally involve lower risk for the company and sometimes involve
fee schedules that award the company increased payments for satisfying certain
performance criteria. However, not all of the company’s costs are recoverable
under these types of contracts, and the government has the right to object to
the company’s costs, which can increase the company’s risk. Fixed-price
contracts generally offer greater profit potential if the company can complete
the work for less than the contract amount. However, fixed-price contracts put
the company at risk for absorbing any cost overruns.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

The company’s commercial sales were $3,009 in 2003, $3,235 in 2002 and $3,555
in 2001. These sales represented approximately 18 percent of the company’s
consolidated net sales in 2003, 23 percent in 2002 and 29 percent in 2001. The
majority of these sales were for Gulfstream aircraft, primarily to
Fortune 500

®

companies and large, privately held companies. The aircraft are operated by
customers in a wide range of industries.

INTERNATIONAL

The company’s direct (non-Foreign Military Sales) sales to defense and
commercial customers outside the United States were $2,581 in 2003, $1,788 in
2002 and $1,180 in 2001. These sales represented approximately 16 percent of
the company’s consolidated net sales in 2003, 13 percent in 2002 and 10 percent
in 2001. International defense sales were primarily from the company’s
subsidiaries located abroad; international commercial sales were primarily
exports of business-jet aircraft.

The company has operations in Australia, Austria, Canada, Germany, Spain,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Sales from these international operations
were $2,175 in 2003, $970 in 2002 and $421 in 2001. The long-lived assets of
operations located outside the United States were 16 percent of the company’s
total as of December 31, 2003, 6 percent as of December 31, 2002, and 5 percent
as of December 31, 2001.

For information regarding sales by geographic region, see Note R to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

SUPPLIERS

In some cases, the company is dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for
raw materials and components used in the production of its products. In some
instances, the company relies on only one or two


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


sources of supply. A disruption in deliveries from its suppliers, therefore,
could have an adverse effect on the company’s ability to meet its commitments
to customers. However, the company has not experienced, and does not foresee,
any difficulty in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for
its business operations.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The company conducts independent research and development (R&D) activities. The
company also conducts R&D activities under U.S. government contracts to develop
products for large systems-development and technology programs.

The majority of company-sponsored R&D expenditures in each of the past three
years was in the company’s defense business. The company recovers a significant
portion of these expenditures through overhead charges pursuant to U.S.
government contracts. The R&D activities of the Aerospace group consist
primarily of internally funded product enhancement and development programs for
Gulfstream aircraft.

Research and development expenditures were as follows:

Year Ended December 31




Company-sponsored

$


$


$


Customer-sponsored




$


$


$


BACKLOG

The company’s total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of
work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded
portions. For further discussion of backlog, see Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II,
Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Summary backlog information for each business group follows:

DEFENSE BUSINESS

For defense programs, the funded backlog represents those items that have been
authorized and appropriated by Congress and funded by the customer. The
unfunded backlog represents orders for which funding has not been appropriated.
To the extent the backlog has not been funded, there is no assurance that
funding will be forthcoming; however, management believes it is highly likely.

AEROSPACE

The Aerospace funded backlog represents orders for which the company has
definitive purchase contracts and deposits from a customer. The unfunded
Aerospace backlog consists of options to purchase new aircraft and agreements
to provide future aircraft maintenance and support services.

REGULATORY MATTERS

U.S. GOVERNMENT DEFENSE CONTRACTS

Generally, U.S. government contracts are subject to several procurement laws
and regulations. In particular, contracts are governed by the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which lays out uniform policies and procedures
for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. government, and
agency-specific acquisition regulations that implement or supplement the FAR.
For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR). The FAR regulates all phases of the
acquisition of products and services, including:

•

Acquisition planning;

•

Competition requirements;

•

Contractor qualifications;

•

Protection of source selection and vendor information; and

•

Acquisition procedures.

The FAR also addresses guidelines and regulations for managing a contract after
award, including conditions under which contracts may be

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for
default. If a contract is terminated for convenience of the government, a
contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in
general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. If a
contract is terminated for default, the government generally pays for only the
work it has accepted. These regulations also subject the company to financial
audits and other reviews by the government of its costs, performance,
accounting and general business practices relating to its contracts, which may
result in adjustment of the company’s contract-related costs and fees.

In addition, failure by the company to comply with procurement laws or
regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings
involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments or suspension or disbarment
from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.

INTERNATIONAL

The company’s international sales are subject to U.S. and foreign government
regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations
relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and
repatriation of earnings. International sales are also subject to varying
currency, political and economic risks.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to FAA regulation in the United States and other
similar aviation regulatory authorities throughout the world. For an aircraft
to be manufactured and sold, the model must have received a type certificate
from the appropriate aviation authority, and each individual aircraft must have
received a certificate of airworthiness. Aviation authorities have the power to
require changes to aircraft if deemed necessary for safety purposes.
Maintenance facilities are also required to be licensed by aviation
authorities.

ENVIRONMENTAL

The company’s operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal,
state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the
discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of
certain materials, substances and wastes. The company continually assesses its
compliance status and management of environmental matters and believes that its
operations are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws
and regulations.

Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and
management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of the company’s
operations. These costs are not significant relative to total operating costs
or cash flows, and often are allowable costs under the company’s contracts with
the U.S. government. These costs have not been material in the past. Based on
information currently available to the
company and current U.S. government policies relating to allowable costs, the
company does not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on its
results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

A Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) has joint and several liability under
existing U.S. environmental laws. Where the company has been designated a PRP
by the Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency, it is
potentially liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of
remediating contamination at the company’s facilities or former facilities or
at third-party sites. In the unlikely event that the company is required to
fully fund the remediation of a site, the statutory framework would allow the
company to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. For additional
information relating to the impact of environmental controls, see Note O to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The company is a leader in the development of innovative products,
manufacturing technologies and systems-integration practices. In addition to
owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, the company
licenses certain intellectual property rights of third parties, including the
U.S. government. Additionally, the U.S. government licenses many of the
company’s patents, pursuant to which the government may use or authorize others
to use the inventions covered by the patents. Although these intellectual
property rights are important to the operation of the company’s business, no
existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such
importance that its loss or termination would, in the opinion of management,
have a material impact on the company’s business.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and makes
available several types of reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports include an annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on
Form 8-K. Free copies of these reports are made available as soon as
practicable on the company’s website (http://www.generaldynamics.com) or by
calling investor relations at (703) 876-3000.

These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450
Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The
SEC also maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy
and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The company believes its main facilities are adequate for its present needs
and, as supplemented by planned improvements and construction, expects them to
remain adequate for the foreseeable future. A summary of floor space (square
feet in millions) at the main facilities of the Information Systems and
Technology, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Aerospace business groups as of
December 31, 2003, follows (a):

Company-

Government-

owned

Leased

owned

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

Total

Information Systems and Technology:

Scottsdale, AZ (Office/Lab/Factory/Warehouse)

1.5

—

—

1.5

Pittsfield, MA (Lab)

—

—

0.9

0.9

Bloomington, MN (Office)

—

0.5

—

0.5

Needham, MA (Office/Lab)

0.5

—

—

0.5

Northern VA (Office/Lab)

—

0.5

—

0.5

Taunton, MA (Office/Factory)

0.1

0.4

—

0.5

Ann Arbor, MI (Office)

—

0.4

—

0.4

Buffalo, NY (Office)

—

0.4

—

0.4

Mountain View, CA (Office/Factory)

0.2

0.1

—

0.3

Ontario, Canada (Office/Plant)

0.2

0.1

—

0.3

Alberta, Canada (Office)

—

0.2

—

0.2

East Sussex, U.K. (Office)

0.1

0.1

—

0.2

Greensboro, NC (Office/Factory)

—

0.2

—

0.2

South Wales, U.K. (Office)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Combat Systems:

Vienna, Austria (Office/Plant)

0.3

1.4

1.6

3.3

Lima, OH (Plant)

—

—

1.6

1.6

Burglen, Switzerland (Office/Plant)

1.1

—

—

1.1

Muskegon, MI (Plant)

1.0

0.1

—

1.1

Murcia, Spain (Plant)

—

—

1.0

1.0

Trubia, Spain (Plant)

—

—

1.0

1.0

Kreuzlingen, Switzerland (Office/Plant)

0.9

—

—

0.9

Marion, VA (Office/Plant)

0.9

—

—

0.9

Palencia, Spain (Plant)

—

—

0.9

0.9

Marion, IL (Office/Plant)

—

0.8

—

0.8

Ontario, Canada (Office/Plant)

—

0.8

—

0.8

Granada, Spain (Plant)

—

—

0.7

0.7

Kaiserslautern, Germany (Office/Plant)

—

—

0.6

0.6

Sterling Heights, MI (Office/Warehouse)

0.6

—

—

0.6

Garland, TX (Office/Plant)

0.5

—

—

0.5

Oviedo, Spain (Plant)

—

—

0.5

0.5

Saco, ME (Office/Plant)

0.5

—

—

0.5

Camden, AR (Office/Plant)

0.1

0.3

—

0.4

DeLand, FL (Office/Plant)

0.4

—

—

0.4

Sevilla, Spain (Office/Plant)

—

—

0.4

0.4

(a)

The Resources group operates two underground coal mines and one surface
coal mine in Illinois and several stone quarries, as well as sand and gravel
pits and yards for its aggregates business in Chicago, Illinois, and Indiana.
Coal preparation facilities and rail loading facilities are located at each
mine sufficient for its output. The company owns approximately 170 acres of
property in Rancho Cucamonga, California, of which approximately five acres are
undeveloped.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Company-

Government-

owned

Leased

owned

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

Total

Combat Systems (continued):

Lincoln, NE (Office/Plant)

0.2

0.1

—

0.3

Red Lion, PA (Office/Plant)

0.3

—

—

0.3

Scranton, PA (Plant)

—

0.3

—

0.3

St. Marks, FL (Office/Plant)

0.3

—

—

0.3

Woodbridge, VA (Office)

0.1

0.2

—

0.3

Anniston, AL (Plant/Warehouse)

—

—

0.2

0.2

Burlington, VT (Office/Plant)

—

0.2

—

0.2

Charlotte, NC (Office/Plant)

—

0.2

—

0.2

La Coruna, Spain (Plant)

—

—

0.2

0.2

Pooraka, Australia (Office/Plant)

—

0.1

—

0.1

St. Petersburg, FL (Office)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Westminster, MD (Office/Plant)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Marine Systems:

Groton, CT (Shipyard)

2.8

0.2

—

3.0

Quonset Point, RI (Plant/Warehouse)

0.4

1.1

—

1.5

Brunswick, ME (Office/Plant/Warehouse)

1.1

0.2

—

1.3

Bath, ME (Shipyard)

1.1

—

—

1.1

San Diego, CA (Shipyard)

0.8

0.3

—

1.1

Aerospace:

Savannah, GA (Office/Factory)

1.4

0.1

—

1.5

Long Beach, CA (Service/Completion Center)

0.3

0.1

—

0.4

Dallas, TX (Service/Completion Center)

0.2

0.1

—

0.3

Appleton, WI (Service/Completion Center)

0.1

0.1

—

0.2

Mexicali, Mexico (Factory)

—

0.2

—

0.2

Brunswick, GA (Service/Completion Center)

—

0.1

—

0.1

London, England (Service Center)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Las Vegas, NV (Service Center)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Minneapolis, MN (Service Center)

—

0.1

—

0.1

West Palm Beach, FL (Service Center)

—

0.1

—

0.1

Westfield, MA (Service Center)

0.1

—

—

0.1


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For information relating to legal proceedings, see Note O to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the company’s security holders during
the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2003.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE COMPANY’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Chicago
Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange.

The high and low sales prices of the company’s common stock and the cash
dividends declared with respect to the company’s common stock for each
quarterly period during the two most recent fiscal years are included in the
Supplementary Data contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

The number of holders of the company’s common stock as of January 31, 2004, was
approximately 117,800.

The company made no repurchases of its common stock during the quarter ended
December 31, 2003.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

The following table presents summary selected historical financial data derived
from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and other company
information for each of the five years presented. The following information
should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


(Dollars in millions, except
per share amounts or unless otherwise noted)

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(For an overview of the company’s business groups, including a discussion of
products and services provided, see the Business discussion contained in Part
I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW

General Dynamics designs, develops, manufactures and supports leading-edge
technology products and services for mission-critical information systems and
technologies; land and expeditionary combat vehicles, armaments and munitions;
shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. The company’s primary
customers are the U.S. military, other government organizations, the armed
forces of allied nations and a diverse base of corporate and industrial buyers.
It operates through four primary business groups — Information Systems and
Technology, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Aerospace — and a smaller
Resources group.

The company has two primary business markets — defense and business aviation.
The majority of the company’s revenues derive from contracts with the U.S.
military. The Global War on Terrorism, Operation Iraqi Freedom and homeland
defense concerns have focused the U.S. government’s efforts on ensuring that
U.S. armed forces are equipped and trained to prevail in small- and large-scale
conflicts around the world. At the same time, the president and the Department
of Defense have indicated that they are committed to transforming the military
into a more agile, responsive, lethal and survivable force for future
engagements. These endeavors have driven steady funding increases for the
Department of Defense since 2001.

For fiscal year 2004, Congress appropriated $375 billion for the Department of
Defense, a 21 percent increase in funding since 2001. This amount includes $140
billion for weapons and equipment procurement and research and development
activities, an increase of 36 percent since 2001. These two funding areas
deliver the majority of the company’s revenues, and their sustained increases
demonstrate solid administration and congressional support for the U.S.
military. Congress provided additional funding for Operation Iraqi Freedom,
bringing the Department of Defense’s total funding to over $440 billion for
fiscal year 2004. For fiscal year 2005, the president has requested that
Congress appropriate $402 billion for the Department of Defense, a 7 percent
increase over 2004, including $144 billion for procurement and research and
development. While Department of Defense funding levels may change over time,
levels of funding available for the company’s programs are expected to remain
consistent for 2004 and 2005.

The global defense market is shaped largely by the demands of the U.S.
military. Many foreign governments remain committed to funding weapons and
equipment modernization in the pursuit of interoperability with U.S. and allied
forces and flexible capabilities for peacekeeping and regional operations. The
company continues to focus on the needs of these customers and expects growing
international sales as it expands its market presence in Europe.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



The Aerospace group is one of the world’s leading designers and manufacturers
of business-jet aircraft and is a leader in the long-range and
ultra-long-range, large-cabin business-jet market. The company’s market is influenced in part by
the capital goods sector and the demand for business-aviation products by U.S.
and foreign businesses, the U.S. and other governments and high-net-worth
individuals.

Business aviation was affected by the global economic slowdown in recent years.
During that time, the company pursued aggressive management initiatives to
improve efficiency and introduced new products that expanded the markets served
by its aircraft. The company anticipates an improved environment as the global
economy shows signs of recovery and the business-jet aircraft market
stabilizes. The company will continue to implement improved business processes
to take full advantage of these conditions.

The company’s management is committed to creating shareholder value through
ethical business practices, disciplined program management and continuous
operational improvements. The company has proven itself as an industry leader
in generating strong cash flows, which have enabled it to enhance returns
through strategic and tactical acquisitions and share repurchases.

CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW

Results of Operations

The company’s net sales were $16.6 billion in 2003, up 20 percent over 2002.
Acquisitions in Information Systems and Technology and Combat Systems and
strong organic growth in the company’s defense businesses contributed to the
sales growth, offset in part by reduced sales of new aircraft in Aerospace. The
overall organic growth in 2003 was 8 percent, led by 20 percent organic growth
in Information Systems and Technology. Growth from acquisitions in 2003 was 12
percent. In 2002, net sales increased by 15 percent over 2001 on strong volume
in Information Systems and Technology and Combat Systems, as well as contributions from
acquired businesses. About half of the sales growth in 2002 was organic.

Net earnings grew more than 9 percent from 2002, to just over $1 billion in
2003. This increase resulted from both organic growth and acquisitions in
Information Systems and Technology and Combat Systems, but was offset partially
by decreased earnings in Marine Systems and Aerospace. The downward pressure on
2003 earnings from Marine Systems was driven by performance problems on
commercial shipbuilding contracts. Aerospace 2003 earnings were lower because
of reduced sales of new aircraft and market pricing pressures, particularly in
the first half of the year; however, management is cautiously optimistic that
the business-aviation market has stabilized. For 2002, the company’s net
earnings were essentially flat compared with 2001 because of an after-tax
charge of $134, reported as discontinued operations, that was associated with
the company’s exit from its undersea fiber-optic cable-laying business.

The company generated significant cash flow from operating activities in 2003
through strong operating results and diligent management of working capital,
including sharply reduced levels of pre-owned aircraft inventory. Net cash
provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion in 2003 compared with $1.1
billion in 2002 and 2001. The company used its cash to pay down debt, as
reflected in an increase in net debt of only $2.1 billion during the year,
despite making acquisitions in excess of $3 billion. The company also used the
funds to repurchase its common shares, pay dividends and fund capital
expenditures. In 2002 and 2001, cash from operating activities approximated net
income.

General and administrative (G&A) expenses as a percentage of sales have
remained consistent year over year at around 6.5 percent. G&A was $1.1 billion
in 2003, $903 in 2002 and $808 in 2001.

Income from non-operating items was $3 in 2003 compared with $47 in 2002, which
included a $36 gain from the sale of some assets of the Space Propulsion
operation within Combat Systems. In 2001, expense


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


from non-operating items was $5. Net interest expense increased to $98 in 2003
from $45 in 2002, the result of a higher average borrowing balance from the
company’s issuance of additional debt to fund acquisitions. Net interest
expense was $56 in 2001.

The company’s effective tax rate was 27.3 percent in 2003, 33.6 percent in 2002
and 33.8 percent in 2001. The 2003 tax rate was lower than in previous years
because of a settlement of the 1996 to 1998 audit cycle with the Internal
Revenue Service and the resolution of some outstanding state tax disputes.
These events resulted in non-cash benefits totaling $68, favorably impacting
the company’s tax rate by 5 percent.

As noted above, the company exited its undersea fiber-optic cable-laying
business in the fourth quarter of 2002 because of substantial overcapacity in
the market and a lack of contract backlog. The results of this business’
operations are included as discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for
all periods presented. The company recognized an after-tax gain of $7 in 2003
upon the favorable resolution of certain liabilities related to this business.
In 2002, the company recognized an after-tax loss of $134, including an
after-tax charge of $109 for ship lease obligations and the write-down of
assets to net realizable value. In 2001, the cable-laying business operated at
a break-even level. Operating results from this business had been included in
the Information Systems and Technology group since 1998.

Backlog

The company’s total backlog increased 42 percent over 2002 to $41.1 billion at
year-end 2003. This growth resulted from substantial new order activity in all
business groups and acquisitions in Information Systems and Technology and
Combat Systems. New orders received during 2003 totaled $25 billion, including
an $8.4 billion submarine order in the Marine Systems group. The company’s
funded backlog grew 18 percent over 2002 to $25.3 billion at the end of 2003.

The company’s defense businesses contributed $34.3 billion to the 2003 year-end
total backlog, an increase of 57 percent over 2002. This portion of the total
backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value
of work to be performed under firm contracts. The funded portion of this
backlog increased to $21 billion in 2003 and includes items that have been
authorized and appropriated by Congress and funded by the customer. The
unfunded backlog represents firm orders for which funding has not been
appropriated. The backlog does not include work awarded under indefinite
delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts. The total potential value of
these contracts was approximately $6.7 billion as of December 31, 2003, up from
$3 billion at the end of 2002, and may be realized over the next 10 years.

The Aerospace group’s total backlog of $6.5 billion remained steady in 2003
despite adverse economic conditions in the business-jet market in late 2002 and
the first half of 2003. The Aerospace funded backlog was $4.1 billion at the
end of 2003 and includes orders for which the company has definitive purchase
contracts and deposits from the customer. The unfunded backlog, which consists
of options to purchase new aircraft and agreements to provide future aircraft
maintenance and support services, was $2.4 billion at year-end 2003, up
slightly from 2002.

The Resources group’s backlog was $220 as of year-end 2003, of which $163 was
funded.

REVIEW OF OPERATING SEGMENTS

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

Results of Operations and Outlook

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

4,978

$

3,681

$

1,297


%

Operating earnings





%

Operating margin

10.8

%

11.8

%

The Information Systems and Technology group experienced strong net sales and
operating earnings growth in 2003 from substantial organic growth and the
addition of several new businesses. Volume increased in 2003 across all of the
group’s operations, reflecting the growing importance of digital,
network-centric C4ISR and information-sharing technologies in the defense and
intelligence communities. This growth included increases in:

•

Sales activity in infrastructure and information technology support services;

•

Deliveries of ruggedized computing equipment and high-speed encryption products;

•

Sales to intelligence agencies; and

•

Volume on communications systems such as the BOWMAN program, a secure digital
voice and data communications system for the United Kingdom’s armed forces.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



The group’s overall operating margin decreased slightly in 2003 as a result of
lower margins in the businesses acquired during the year, and because earnings
in 2002 included the favorable resolution of some commercial program exposures.

During
2003, the company completed three acquisitions in the group — Creative
Technology Incorporated in March, Veridian Corporation in August and Digital
System Resources, Inc., in September. The company believes these acquisitions
strengthen its product mix and service offerings and expand its customer base
within the intelligence and defense agencies of the U.S. government.

Also during 2003, the company combined two business units into a new business
unit, General Dynamics C4 Systems. The company believes the combination of
these two operations will enhance its competitive position and enable it to
more efficiently serve its customers. The combined business unit provides
systems-integration capabilities in the areas of tactical networks, information
assurance, command and control, space products and systems, and military
radios.

For 2004, the company expects continued strong revenue and earnings growth in
the Information Systems and Technology group, driven by the 2003 acquisitions,
the group’s expanding customer base and the continued fielding of growing
programs, such as BOWMAN and the Coast Guard’s Rescue 21 search-and-rescue
system. The company anticipates a modest decrease in operating margins as it
continues to integrate the newly acquired businesses and as new awards change
the group’s contract mix.

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

3,681

$

2,691

$



%

Operating earnings





%

Operating margin

11.8

%

9.7

%

In 2002, net sales and operating earnings were up considerably over 2001. The
increases resulted from organic growth in core government programs, such as the
BOWMAN program, and the acquisition of Integrated Information Systems Group
(IISG) from Motorola, Inc., in September 2001. Operating margins in 2002 were
significantly higher than historical averages due to a shift in the group’s
product mix, including accelerated deliveries of encryption products, the
acquisition of Decision Systems, the reduction of commercial program exposures
discussed above, and the elimination of goodwill amortization upon adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.”

Backlog

The Information Systems and Technology group’s backlog increased $2.4 billion
in 2003 to $7.7 billion at year end, from both acquisitions and new order
activity. Over 80 percent of the group’s backlog at year end was funded. In
contrast with the company’s other defense businesses, Information Systems and
Technology’s backlog consists of a large number of relatively small
dollar-value contracts and programs. These include programs that support the
U.S. government’s military transformation, homeland security initiatives and
overseas programs that underscore the growing international market for the
company’s products and services.

The group’s backlog does not include approximately $6.5 billion of potential
contract value awarded under IDIQ contracts. A significant portion of this IDIQ
value represents contracts for which the company has been designated as the
sole-source supplier over several years to design, develop, produce and
integrate complex products and systems for the military or other government
agencies. Management believes that the customers intend to fully implement
these systems. However, because the value of these arrangements is subject to
the customer’s future exercise of an indeterminate quantity of delivery orders,
the company recognizes these contracts in backlog only when they are funded.

In 2003, the company received two significant awards that extend two of the
group’s longest-running programs. The Army awarded the company the Common
Hardware/Software III (CHS-3) contract to provide continually updated
commercial and ruggedized computers, network hardware equipment, power
subsystems, peripheral devices and commercial software to the Army, Marine
Corps, Air Force and other federal agencies worldwide. This IDIQ contract,
which has a potential value of $2 billion over its 10-year life, is a follow-on
to the company’s CHS-2 contract, now entering its tenth year. In addition, the
Air Force selected the company for an IDIQ contract, called Intelligence
Information, Command-and-Control Equipment and Enhancements (ICE2), to support
and maintain critical intelligence and command-and-control systems and networks
for U.S. defense and intelligence operations worldwide. The contract, which
extends a program that


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


the company has been
operating for over 25 years, has a four-year base term
with two three-year options and a total potential value of $2 billion.

The company won several other notable awards during the year, including
contracts to develop and demonstrate several aspects of the Army’s Future
Combat Systems (FCS) program. The FCS program, which is central to the Army’s
transformation initiative, is a family of advanced, networked air- and
ground-based systems. The Information Systems and Technology group was selected
to provide the integrated computer system, sensor data management and mission
planning and preparation services for FCS. The combined value of these
Information Systems and Technology awards is in excess of $350 over the next
five years, with potential for follow-on production activity. Combat Systems is
performing additional work on the FCS program.

The Army also selected the company to develop, produce and integrate the Land
Warrior soldier system. This program provides the individual soldier with
personal electronics, communications, global navigation and other integrated
equipment designed to increase awareness, lethality and survivability. The Army
plans to fully integrate this system with the Stryker Brigade Combat Teams and
the FCS program. Including options, the Land Warrior program has a potential
value of approximately $790 over the next seven years.

The Army awarded the company a contract with a potential value of approximately
$300 over 10 years to integrate a voice and data communications system, called
the Secure Enroute Communications Package — Improved (SECOMP-I). This system is
designed to enable joint tactical forces to arrive at their deployment
destinations fully briefed on the most current intelligence reports and plan
updates available.

COMBAT SYSTEMS

Results of Operations and Outlook

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

4,166

$

2,923

$

1,243


%

Operating earnings





%

Operating margin

11.1

%

11.1

%

The Combat Systems group’s net sales and operating earnings increased
significantly in 2003 primarily due to a series of acquisitions during the year
that broadened the company’s product base, opened new markets and further
aligned the company with Department of Defense transformational initiatives.
The growth from acquisitions was augmented by steady organic growth in sales
and operating earnings, including increased volume in the Leopard tank
production program in Spain, growing contributions to the Army’s FCS program
and strong performance in the company’s
munitions and armaments operations. This growth was offset slightly by fewer
Abrams main battle tank upgrades, reduced deliveries of the Pizarro Advanced
Infantry Fighting Vehicle in Spain and the 2002 termination of the Crusader
program.

During
2003, the company completed three acquisitions in the group — General
Motors Defense (GM Defense) in March, Intercontinental Manufacturing Company in
September and Steyr Daimler Puch Spezialfahrzeug Aktiengesellschaft & Company
KG (Steyr) in October. The acquisition of GM Defense included MOWAG, a combat
vehicle operation based in Switzerland. With the addition of MOWAG and Steyr to
the company’s existing combat vehicle presence in Spain, the company created a
new business unit called General Dynamics European Land Combat Systems, based
in Vienna, Austria. The company believes the consolidation of these businesses
under common management positions the Combat Systems group to strengthen its
market base, better serve its customers and more competitively pursue land
combat systems opportunities around the world.

The company believes the Combat Systems group, with its broad and diverse base
of product offerings and substantial backlog, is well positioned for solid
growth in 2004 and beyond. Accordingly, management expects strong revenue and
earnings growth for the group in 2004 with operating margins consistent with
2003.

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

2,923

$

2,210

$



%

Operating earnings





%

Operating margin

11.1

%

10.8

%

For 2002, organic growth was the primary driver of the significant increases in
net sales and operating earnings in the Combat Systems group. This growth was
fueled by increased production on the first brigade of the Stryker program,
increased deliveries on the Leopard program, higher volume on various munitions
programs and additional development work on the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle
(EFV, formerly the Advanced Amphibious Assault Vehicle). The acquisition of
Advanced Technical Products, Inc., in June 2002 also contributed to the net
sales and operating earnings growth in 2002.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Backlog

The Combat Systems group’s total backlog rose 71 percent in 2003 to $8.5
billion at year end because of acquisitions and new order activity, including
several significant contract awards. The group’s funded backlog also grew
significantly, from $4.2 billion in 2002 to $6 billion at the end of 2003. The
group’s backlog consists primarily of long-term production contracts with
scheduled deliveries through 2012.

During 2003, Combat Systems won several contracts to partner with the U.S.
military as it transforms its forces for the future. The company received an
order from the Army for the third of six brigades of Stryker wheeled combat
vehicles, a key component of the Army’s transformation to a lighter, more
mobile force. The order, for 267 vehicles, is valued at $384 and is scheduled
for delivery in 2004. The year-end backlog included $566 for the production of
Stryker vehicles. Congress appropriated funding in 2004 for the fourth brigade,
and the 2005 budget request includes funding for the fifth brigade. The first
brigade of Stryker vehicles is deployed in Operation Iraqi Freedom. With the
acquisition of GM Defense, the company has consolidated its lead role on the $4
billion Stryker program, which calls for a total of 2,096 vehicles for six
planned brigades. The company believes there is significant potential for
international sales of these vehicles.

In addition, the group and its teaming partner were selected to develop and
demonstrate portions of the Army’s FCS program. The contracts
awarded to the Combat Systems group in 2003 have a value of $2.2 billion and include engineering
development and demonstration of a family of eight manned ground vehicles, as
well as the development of the autonomous navigation systems for unmanned and
manned ground vehicles. These ground vehicles are intended to be the new
generation of Army combat vehicles.

The Army also awarded Combat Systems the lead technology integration contract
for the second phase of its Future Force Warrior (FFW) advanced technology
demonstration program. The $100 award is for completion of detailed designs of
the FFW network-centric soldier system, part of the Army’s plan to create a
highly networked, lethal, survivable soldier of
the future. The system development and demonstration phase of this program has
a potential value of $1 to $3 billion over a 10-year period.

The Combat Systems backlog also included approximately $380 for the continued
design and development of the Marine Corps’ EFV program. Seven out of nine new
infantry carrier prototypes, as well as a command-and-control prototype, have
been completed as of year-end 2003. Initial production of more than 1,000
vehicles is scheduled to begin in 2006.

The company received additional funding to upgrade M1A2 Abrams battle tanks to
the M1A2 System Enhancement Package (SEP) configuration. Through this program,
the company retrofits M1A2 tanks with improved electronics, command-and-control
capabilities and armor enhancements that improve the tank’s effectiveness. The
administration’s 2005 budget request includes funding for more M1A2 SEP
upgrades. In addition, the company was awarded a contract modification in 2003
to provide 125 M1A1 hardware kits for the Egyptian tank co-production program,
bringing the total program, which began in 1992, to 880 M1A1 tank kits.

The Combat Systems group’s Leopard program is a long-term battle tank
manufacturing contract for the Spanish army under license from a German
company. The year-end backlog included $1.4 billion for the production of 232
Leopard tanks, with deliveries scheduled through 2008. The company also
produces Pizarro Advanced Infantry Fighting Vehicles for the Spanish army. The
Spanish government awarded the company a contract valued at $640 for the second
phase of the Pizarro program, bringing the total program value to almost $900,
with deliveries of 212 vehicles scheduled through 2012.

Combat Systems’ backlog at year-end 2003 included approximately $1.2 billion in
armament, munitions and composite structures programs, such as reactive armor
for the Bradley fighting vehicle and various trainable gun-mount
systems. The
ammunition programs include a $200 order from the Army in 2003 for rockets,
motors and warheads for the Hydra-70 (70mm) rocket system, which raised the
program value to date to over $800 and extended deliveries through 2006. The
Army also awarded the company a contract to add a precision guidance system to
the 70mm rocket family as part of the development of the next-generation
Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System (APKWS). The composite structures
programs include work on numerous aerospace platforms, including the F-16,
F-18, F-22, C-17, Joint Strike Fighter and unmanned aerial vehicles such as the
Global Hawk and the Predator.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


MARINE SYSTEMS

Results of Operations and Outlook

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

4,271

$

3,650

$



%

Operating earnings



(71

)

(25

)%

Operating margin

5.1

%

7.9

%

The Marine Systems group’s net sales grew in 2003 from increases in volume
across the group, including contracts for design and early-stage production on
the Virginia-class submarine, conversion of Trident submarines (SSGN) and
design and production of T-AKE combat logistics ships. Commercial shipbuilding,
engineering and repair volume also rose during the year. These increases were
offset partially by lower volume on several mature production programs,
including the Seawolf-class submarine program.

Operating earnings and margins for the Marine Systems group declined in 2003
because of performance problems on two commercial shipbuilding contracts. In
the first quarter of the year, earnings were affected by problems first
encountered in 2002 in the construction of two roll-on/roll-off cargo ships for
Totem Ocean Trailer Express, Inc. (TOTE). After the first quarter, there was no
further erosion in this program. The two TOTE ships under contract have been
delivered to the customer. In the latter part of the year, the group
experienced problems during the construction of the first ship of a contract to
produce four double-hull oil tankers. Management evaluated the program’s
performance and the estimates to complete the four ships and recognized losses
totaling approximately $70 on the contract. The first ship was in the water in
the fourth quarter of 2003 and was approximately 90 percent complete at year
end. Although the company does not expect any additional charges associated
with these ships, management will continue to monitor the program closely. The
first two ships are scheduled to be delivered in 2004, the third in 2005 and
the fourth in 2006.

The company expects revenue growth in the Marine Systems group in 2004 as the
group executes its substantial backlog. Based on this large backlog of steady,
long-term production programs and management’s current belief that the group
has turned the corner on its commercial shipbuilding problems, the company
expects Marine Systems’ operating margins to improve steadily in 2004. Other
significant events expected in 2004 include the May 30 expiration of a
collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers union at Bath Iron Works, which represents
approximately 65 percent of its work force.

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$

3,650

$

3,612

$



%

Operating earnings



(23

)

(7

)%

Operating margin

7.9

%

8.6

%

In 2002, Marine Systems’ net sales were flat and operating earnings were down
slightly from 2001. New commercial ship design work and an increase in volume
on the Virginia-class submarine program were offset by lower volume on mature
production programs. This shift in the group’s contract mix, along with the
problems on the TOTE program discussed above, caused earnings and operating
margins to decrease in 2002.

Backlog

The Marine Systems group’s backlog grew remarkably in 2003 as a result of
several significant contract awards. At the end of 2003, the group’s backlog
reached an all-time high of $18.2 billion, a 56 percent increase over 2002. The
backlog consists of numerous long-term submarine and ship construction
programs, as well as repair and engineering contracts. The Navy’s shipbuilding
plan will continue to have a significant influence on Marine Systems’ backlog.

In 2003, the Navy awarded the company an $8.7 billion contract for the
construction of the next six Virginia-class submarines, the largest submarine
order in U.S. history. The contract authorizes construction of one ship per year
from 2003 through 2008. In January 2004, the five ships planned for
construction from 2004 through 2008 became part of a multiyear agreement,
saving the customer approximately $300 and shifting $1.5 billion from unfunded
to funded backlog. In 1998, the Navy had awarded the company a contract to
build the first four Virginia-class submarines of this potential 30-ship
program. The Marine Systems group’s backlog at year end included $1.7 billion
associated with these first four submarines, with one submarine scheduled to be
delivered each year from 2004 through 2007. The lead ship in the class, the

Virginia

, was christened in August 2003. The company is the prime contractor on
this program, and construction is shared equally with its teaming partner.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



The company received $310 in modifications to its contract to convert four
Ohio-class Trident ballistic-missile submarines to an SSGN configuration, a
multi-mission submarine optimized for tactical strike and special-operations
support. These modifications are part of a $443 contract that the Navy awarded
to Marine Systems in 2002 for the design and related support of this conversion
program. In addition, the Navy awarded the Information Systems and Technology
group over $100 in contracts in 2003 to support the SSGN conversion.

In 2003, the Navy awarded the company a $953 contract modification to provide
funding for the next two Arleigh Burke-class DDG destroyers, part of a
seven-ship award received in September 2002. At the end of 2003, the group’s
backlog included 12 DDGs scheduled for delivery through 2010. The 2005 defense
budget includes two DDGs.

An international team led by the Marine Systems group was one of three
contractors that received contracts in 2003 to develop preliminary designs for
the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship (LCS). The LCS is an integrated surface
combatant intended to operate in coastal areas against terrorist threats,
high-speed swarm boats, mines and diesel submarines. The Navy plans to award
construction contracts in 2004 to two of the three remaining competitors for
two ships each. The first ship delivery is scheduled in 2007.

In 2003, the Navy exercised an option to build a fourth T-AKE ship, a new class
of combat logistics ships. This option is valued at approximately $290 and is
part of a potential 12-ship contract awarded to the company in 2001. The
backlog included $1.1 billion at year end for the construction of the first
four ships, which are scheduled to be delivered between 2005 and 2007. In
January 2004, the Navy exercised options worth approximately $580 for the fifth
and sixth T-AKE ships. The contract has options for six more ships over the
next five years, for a total potential contract value of approximately $3.7
billion.

AEROSPACE

Results of Operations and Outlook

The Aerospace group’s sales and earnings were $2,946 and $218, respectively,
for 2003, down from the previous year. The group’s performance
was affected by a deterioration in the business aviation market during the
second half of 2002 and the first half of 2003. The deterioration was driven
primarily by lower demand for new aircraft and oversupply of new and pre-owned
aircraft. In particular, the oversupply of relatively new pre-owned aircraft
available for sale in the market put additional pricing pressure on both new
and pre-owned aircraft. These conditions lowered sales and put downward
pressure on margins. In response, the company took a series of actions,
including cost reductions, layoffs and process improvements to reduce costs and
improve profitability on an ongoing basis. The company expects to realize
significant annual expense savings beginning in 2004 as a result of these
actions.

Market conditions appeared to improve during the second half of 2003, and the
company is cautiously optimistic that the outlook for the Aerospace group is
improving. The group experienced quarter-over-quarter sales and earnings growth
beginning in the second quarter of 2003, and new aircraft manufacturing margins
improved steadily throughout the year. Pre-owned and new aircraft inventories
at year end declined considerably from 2002, and losses associated with
pre-owned aircraft activity were all but eliminated by the fourth quarter,
resulting in fewer losses in pre-owned aircraft for the full year 2003 ($64)
than in 2002 ($81). Orders for new aircraft increased each quarter during the
year and reached record levels in the fourth quarter of 2003. Market data also
indicate that prices are stabilizing on both new and pre-owned aircraft.

The company expects improved earnings and operating margins in the Aerospace
group on slightly higher deliveries in 2004, assuming price stabilization,
elimination of pre-owned losses and the realization of cost reduction actions
taken in 2003.

Net sales in 2002 were flat compared with 2001, while operating earnings
decreased from losses on pre-owned aircraft sales, charges to write down
pre-owned aircraft inventory to fair market value, fewer deliveries of large
aircraft and a shift in the mix of new aircraft deliveries to include
lower-margin mid-size aircraft.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Summary of Aircraft Statistical Information

Sales contracts for new aircraft usually have two major milestones: the
manufacture of the green aircraft and the aircraft’s completion, which includes
exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors and optional
avionics. The company records revenues when green aircraft are delivered to and
accepted by the customer, and when the customer accepts final delivery of the
fully outfitted aircraft.

The following table summarizes key unit data for the Aerospace group’s orders
and backlog:

(a)

Excludes fractional activity. The company received orders for 50 aircraft
and 50 options in 2001, orders for 55 aircraft and 50 options in 2002 and
cancellations for seven aircraft in 2003 from fractional customers.

(b)

Represents aircraft that have moved from green production to the completion
process as of year end. Backlog includes only the value of the completion
effort on these aircraft.

Backlog

The Aerospace group’s backlog remained steady in 2003 despite the difficult
market conditions, ending the year at $6.5 billion, of which $4.1 billion was
funded. The backlog includes aircraft deliveries scheduled through 2010.
Approximately $2.1 billion, or 51 percent, of the group’s funded backlog is
with NetJets Inc. (NetJets), a unit of Berkshire Hathaway and the leader in the
fractional aircraft market, representing firm contracts for 114 aircraft. The
unfunded backlog includes $1.4 billion for 100 aircraft options from NetJets,
constituting 90 percent of the options in backlog. NetJets also represents
almost 70 percent of the maintenance and support services in unfunded backlog.
Deliveries of aircraft to NetJets are scheduled from 2004 through 2010 and
represent as little as 4 percent and as much as 17 percent of projected new
aircraft sales in those years.

The group’s remaining $2 billion of funded backlog at year-end 2003 consists of
contracts with a broad range of customers from a variety of industries and
approximately $440 of contracts with government customers.

The company continues to pursue opportunities to provide special mission
aircraft to military customers around the world. In 2003, the company was
awarded a contract to provide four Gulfstream G550 aircraft to the Israeli
Ministry of Defense. The contract has an option for two additional G550
aircraft, for a total potential value of approximately $470. In addition, the
company’s Gulfstream G450 aircraft was designated the platform of choice by one
of the two competitors in a pending U.S. military procurement for special
mission ISR applications.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



RESOURCES

The company’s Resources group principally consists of two businesses: a coal
mining company and an aggregates company that supplies the construction
industry.

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$


$


$

(30

)

(10

)%

Operating earnings



(57

)

(64

)%

Net sales and operating earnings in the Resources group decreased in 2003
because of lower volume in the coal and aggregates businesses from unfavorable
seasonal conditions and reduced earnings in the company’s commercial pension
plan. In 2002, earnings increased because the company, in response to the
improved long-term outlook for some of the coal operation’s contracts, reversed
some contingency reserves that had been previously established.

Year Ended December 31



Variance

Net sales

$


$


$



%

Operating earnings





%

Net sales and earnings in 2002 improved over 2001 because of increased volume
and improved cost performance in the aggregates business. In addition, as noted
above, earnings increased as a result of the reversal of contingency reserves.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

In the mid-1990s, the company embarked on a strategy of disciplined capital
deployment through strategic and tactical acquisitions designed to grow the
company beyond its core platform businesses. These acquisitions incorporated
new products and technologies and expanded the company’s customer base. Since
1995, the company has acquired more than 30 businesses at a total cost of
approximately $13.2 billion. This has resulted in a larger, more diversified
company while preserving a strong balance sheet and sustained financial
flexibility.

In terms of overall capital deployment for 2003, the company consummated over
$3 billion of acquisitions, repurchased approximately 4.7 million of its
outstanding common shares at an average price of $64 per share and continued
its trend of consecutive annual dividend increases. Meanwhile, and in spite of
the $3 billion in acquisitions, net debt (total debt less cash and equivalents)
increased only $2.1 billion — to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2003. At the same
time, the company converted a significant portion of its commercial paper to
fixed-rate debt to take advantage of attractive borrowing rates available to
the company. The company ended the year with a cash balance of $860, total debt
of $4 billion and a debt-to-capital ratio of 41 percent.

Cash generation continues to be one of management’s key areas of focus, and
2003 was a particularly strong year in this regard. Free cash flow from
operations for the year totaled $1.5 billion, compared with $861 in 2002 and
$745 in 2001. Management defines free cash flow from operations as cash flow
from operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes free
cash flow from operations is a useful measure for investors, because it
portrays the company’s ability to generate cash from its core businesses for
such purposes as repaying maturing debt, funding business acquisitions and
paying dividends. The following table reconciles the free cash flow from
operations with the cash flow from operating activities, as classified on the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:

Year Ended December 31




Cash flow from operating activities

$

1,723

$

1,125

$

1,101

Capital expenditures

(224

)

(264

)

(356

)

Free cash flow from operations

$

1,499

$


$


As discussed above, the company uses its free cash flow from operations in a
disciplined capital deployment process to invest internally, make strategic
acquisitions and repurchase the company’s shares in the open market. With free
cash flow from operations projected to approximate net earnings in 2004, the
company expects to continue to generate funds in excess of its short- and
long-term liquidity needs. Management believes


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


that the company has adequate funds on hand and sufficient borrowing capacity
to execute its financial and operating strategy. Going forward in
2004, management anticipates focusing on operations and the integration of
recently acquired businesses.

The following is a discussion of the company’s major operating, investing and
financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2003, as classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion in 2003, compared
with $1.1 billion in both 2002 and 2001. The increase in cash flows in 2003 was
due to substantial reductions in both new and pre-owned aircraft inventories in
the Aerospace group and an influx of customer advances and deposits near the
end of the year. In 2002 and 2001, cash provided by operating activities
approximated net income.

Termination of A-12 Program.

As discussed further in Note O to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, litigation on the A-12 program termination has been
ongoing since 1991. If, contrary to the company’s expectations, the default
termination is ultimately sustained, the company and The Boeing Company could
collectively be required to repay the U.S. government as much as $1.4 billion
for progress payments received for the A-12 contract, plus interest, which was
approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2003. In this outcome, the
government contends the company’s liability would be approximately $1.2 billion
pretax, or $700 after-tax. The company believes that it has sufficient
resources to pay such an obligation, if required, while still retaining ample
liquidity.

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2003, $400 in 2002 and
$1.7 billion in 2001. The primary uses of cash in investing activities were
business acquisitions and capital expenditures, offset slightly by cash
received from the sale of assets.

Business Acquisitions.

On August 11, 2003, the company completed its
acquisition of Veridian Corporation, headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, for
approximately $1.5 billion in cash. On March 1, 2003, the company acquired GM
Defense of London, Ontario, a business unit of General Motors Corporation, for
approximately $1.1 billion in cash.

On June 14, 2002, the company acquired the outstanding stock of Advanced
Technical Products, Inc., for $214 in cash, plus the assumption of $43 in
outstanding debt, which was repaid at the time of the acquisition.

On
September 28, 2001, the company acquired IISG from Motorola, Inc., for $825
in cash. On June 5, 2001, the company acquired substantially all of the assets
of Galaxy Aerospace Company LP, for $330 in cash, after a purchase price
adjustment received during the first quarter of 2002. The company may be required to make additional payments to the selling parties,
up to a maximum of approximately $300 through 2006, contingent on the
achievement of specific revenue targets. On January 26, 2001, the company
acquired Primex Technologies, Inc., for $334 in cash plus the assumption of $204
in outstanding debt, $149 of which was repaid at the time of the acquisition.

The company completed several other business acquisitions in the Information
Systems and Technology, Combat Systems and Aerospace groups during the last
three years at a total cost of $515.

The company financed these acquisitions by issuing commercial paper. The
company refinanced a significant portion of this debt during 2003, as discussed
in Financing Activities.

Capital Expenditures.

Capital expenditures in 2003 were $224, down
approximately 15 percent from $264 in 2002. In 2002, capital expenditures
decreased approximately 25 percent from the $356 spent in 2001 as a result of
the completion of a facility modernization project at the company’s Bath Iron
Works shipyard in 2001. The company expects capital expenditures in 2004 to
remain consistent with 2003. The company had no material commitments for
capital expenditures as of December 31, 2003.

Sale of Assets.

On October 2, 2002, the company sold certain assets of its
Space Propulsion operation for $90. The remainder of the Space Propulsion
operation is included in the Combat Systems group.

On February 15, 2001, the Aerospace group sold its engine overhaul business for
$55.

The company received approximately $60 in cash during the three-year period
ended December 31, 2003, from the sale of real estate in southern California.

Financing Activities

In 2003, cash provided by financing activities was $2 billion as a result of
the issuance of fixed-rate notes, offset in part by repayment of outstanding
debt, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends. In 2002, cash used
by financing activities was $836, and cash provided was $908 in 2001.

Debt Proceeds, Net.

On April 3, 2003, the company filed a Form S-3 Registration
Statement (the Registration Statement) with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to register $3 billion of debt securities under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). On May 15, 2003, the company issued
$2 billion of medium-term fixed-rate debt pursuant to the Registration
Statement. On August 14, 2003, the company extended the debt registered to $3.1
billion and issued an additional $1.1 billion of medium-term fixed-rate debt
pursuant to the Registration Statement. The proceeds were used to repay a
substantial portion of the company’s outstanding commercial paper. This had the
effect of fixing interest rates on debt that previously carried variable rates.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



The resulting net reduction in commercial paper for 2003 was $529. Net
repayments of commercial paper were $451 in 2002. In 2001, the company received
net proceeds from commercial paper issuances of $825, which were used primarily
to fund business acquisitions. As of December 31, 2003, the company had $183 of
commercial paper outstanding with an average yield of approximately 1.1 percent
and an average term of 10 days. The company expects to reissue commercial paper
as it matures and has the option to extend the term up to 270 days. The company
has $2 billion in bank credit facilities that serve as back-up
liquidity facilities to the commercial paper program.

On August 27, 2001, the company issued $500 of three-year floating-rate notes
due September 1, 2004. The notes are registered under the Securities Act.
Interest on the notes resets quarterly at three-month LIBOR plus 0.22 percent,
and is payable each March, June, September and December. The notes are
redeemable in whole or in part at any time prior to their maturity at 100
percent of the principal amount, plus any accrued but unpaid interest on the
date the notes are redeemed. The company used the net proceeds of the issuance
to repay a portion of the borrowings under its commercial paper program. These
floating-rate notes are guaranteed by certain of the company’s
100-percent-owned subsidiaries.

Approximately $750 of the company’s borrowings is scheduled to mature in 2004.
Based on the level of cash the company expects to generate from operations and
the existing capacity under its financing arrangements, the company believes it
has sufficient resources to pay these obligations.

Share Repurchases.

On March 7, 2000, the company’s board of directors
authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares of the company’s
issued and outstanding common stock in the open market. In January 2003, the company repurchased 3.2 million shares for approximately
$210, which completely utilized the March 2000 authorization. On February 5,
2003, the board of directors authorized management to repurchase up to 6
million additional shares. The company has since repurchased an additional 1.5
million shares for $90 in 2003. The company repurchased approximately 1.3
million shares for $100 in 2002 and 1.5 million shares for $113 in 2001 under
the March 2000 authorization.

Dividends.

On March 3, 2004, the company’s board of directors declared an
increased regular quarterly dividend of $.36 per share — the seventh
consecutive annual increase. The board had previously increased the quarterly
dividend to $.32 per share in March 2003, to $.30 per share in March 2002 and
to $.28 per share in March 2001.

ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2003, the company had no material off-balance sheet
arrangements, other than operating leases. This includes guarantees; retained
or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities;
derivative instruments indexed to the company’s stock and classified in
shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet; and variable interests
in entities that provide financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk
support to the company or engage in leasing, hedging or research and
development services with the company.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents information about the company’s contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003:

Payment Due by Period

Contractual obligations

Total Amount Committed

Less Than 1 Year

1-3 Years

4-5 Years

After 5 Years

Long-term
debt (a)

$

5,077

$


$


$


$

2,503

Capital lease obligations






Operating leases






Purchase
obligations (b)

4,434

1,099

1,545

1,148


Other
long-term liabilities (c)

2,554

1,074




$

12,762

$

3,175

$

3,004

$

2,549

$

4,034

(a)

Includes scheduled interest payments.

(b)

Includes amounts committed under legally enforceable agreements for goods
and services with defined terms as to quantity, price and timing of delivery.
Excludes purchase orders for products and services to be delivered under firm
government contracts under which the company has full recourse under normal
contract termination clauses. In addition, as disclosed in Note Q to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, the company expects to make approximately
$74 of contributions to its retirement plans in 2004, which has been excluded
from the above amount.

(c)

Represents other long-term liabilities on the company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheet, including the current portion of long-term liabilities. The
projected timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on
management’s estimates, which are largely based on historical experience.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Commercial Commitments

The following table presents information about the company’s commercial
commitments as of December 31, 2003:

Amount of Commitment Expiration by Period

Commercial commitments

Total Amount Committed

Less Than 1 Year

1-3 Years

4-5 Years

After 5 Years

Letters of credit (a)

$


$


$


$

—

$


Trade-in options (a)




—

—

$

1,150

$


$


$

—

$


(a)

See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
letters of credit and aircraft trade-in options.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the company’s Financial Condition and
Results of Operations is based on the company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of
financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates
its estimates, including those related to long-term contracts and programs,
goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, pensions and other
postretirement benefits, workers’ compensation, warranty obligations, pre-owned
aircraft inventory, and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it
believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these
estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.

Management believes the following policies are critical and require the use of
significant business judgment in their application:

Revenue Recognition —

Government Contracts.

The company accounts for sales and
earnings under long-term defense contracts and programs using the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The company follows the
guidelines of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of
Position 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain
Production-Type Contracts,” except that revisions of estimated profits on
contracts are included in earnings under the reallocation method, in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes,” rather
than the cumulative catch-up method. Under the reallocation method, the impact
of revisions in estimates is recognized prospectively over the remaining life
of the contract, while under the cumulative catch-up method such impact would
be recognized immediately. If a
revised estimate of contract profitability reveals an anticipated loss on the
contract, the company recognizes the loss in the period it is identified.

The company estimates profit as the difference between total estimated revenue
and total estimated cost of a contract and recognizes that profit evenly over
the remaining life of the contract based on either input (e.g., costs incurred)
or output (e.g., units delivered) measures, as appropriate to the
circumstances. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the
use of various estimating techniques to project costs at completion, and in
some cases includes estimates of recoveries asserted against the customer for
changes in specifications. These estimates involve various assumptions and
projections relative to the outcome of future events over a period of several
years, including future labor productivity and availability, the nature and
complexity of the work to be performed, availability of materials, the impact
of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer,
and the timing of product deliveries. These estimates require the use of
judgment. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect
the profitability of one or more of the company’s contracts. The company
reviews its contract estimates periodically to assess revisions in contract
values and estimated costs at completion and reflects changes in estimates in
the current and future periods under the reallocation method.

Business Aircraft.

The company accounts for contracts for aircraft certified by
the FAA in accordance with Statement of Position 81-1. These contracts usually
provide for two major milestones: the manufacture of the “green” aircraft
(i.e., before exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors
and optional avionics) and its completion. The company records revenues at two
points: when green aircraft are delivered to and accepted by the customer and
when the customer accepts final delivery of the fully outfitted aircraft.

The company does not recognize revenue at green delivery unless (1) a contract
has been executed with the customer and (2) the customer can be expected to
satisfy its obligations under the contract, as evidenced by the receipt of
deposits from the customer.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Pre-owned Aircraft Inventories.

In connection with orders for new aircraft, the
company routinely offers customers trade-in options. Under these options, if
exercised, the company will accept trade-in aircraft at a predetermined price
based on estimated fair value. Once acquired in connection with a sale of new
aircraft, the company records pre-owned aircraft at the lower of trade-in value
or estimated net realizable value. The company treats any excess of the
trade-in price above the net realizable value as a reduction of revenue upon
the recording of the new aircraft sales transaction. The company also regularly
assesses the carrying value of pre-owned aircraft in inventory and adjusts the
carrying value to net realizable value when appropriate. The company determines
net realizable value by using both internal and external aircraft valuation
information. These valuations involve estimates and assumptions about many
factors, including current market conditions, future market conditions, the age
and condition of the aircraft and the availability of the aircraft in the
market. These estimates require the use of judgment. Gross margins on sales of
pre-owned aircraft can vary from quarter to quarter depending on the mix of
aircraft sold and current market conditions.

Commitments and Contingencies.

The company is subject to litigation and other
legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of its business or arising
under provisions relating to the protection of the environment. Estimating
liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires the judgment of
both management and legal counsel. When it is probable that the company has
incurred a liability associated with claims or pending or threatened litigation
matters and the company’s exposure is reasonably estimable, the company records
a charge against earnings. The ultimate resolution of any exposure to the
company may change as further facts and circumstances become known.

Deferred Contract Costs.

Certain costs incurred in the performance of the
company’s government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are
not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs include a portion of the
company’s estimated workers’ compensation, other insurance-related assessments,
retirement benefits and environmental expenses. These costs become allocable to
contracts when they are paid. The company defers these costs in contracts in
process until they are paid, at which time they are charged to contracts and
recovered from the government. The company expects to recover these costs
through ongoing business, including both existing backlog and probable
follow-on contracts. These efforts include numerous contracts for which the
company is the sole source or one of two suppliers on long-term defense
programs. The company regularly assesses the probability of recovery of these
costs under its current and probable follow-on contracts. This assessment
requires the company to make assumptions about future contract costs, the
extent of cost recovery under the company’s contracts and the amount of future
contract activity. These estimates require the use of judgment. If the level
of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these
costs, the profitability of the company’s remaining contracts could be
adversely affected.

Pension Plans.

The company makes assumptions about discount rates and long-term
rates of return on plan assets to determine its net periodic pension cost in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87,
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.” These estimates require the use of
judgment, including consideration of both current and future market conditions.
The company consults with outside experts to determine the appropriate
assumptions. In the event a change in any of the assumptions is warranted,
future pension cost as determined under SFAS 87 could increase or decrease. If
the assumed rate of return on plan assets increased or decreased by 25 basis
points, the company’s net pension income associated with its commercial plans
would have increased or decreased by approximately $3 in 2003. Likewise, had
the interest rate used to discount the company’s projected pension obligation
increased or decreased by 25 basis points, the net pension income associated
with the commercial plans would have increased by approximately $3 or decreased
by approximately $2 in 2003. The company’s contractual arrangements with the
U.S. government provide for the recovery of contributions to the company’s
government plans. The company has deferred recognition of the cumulative
earnings in its government plans to provide a better matching of revenues and
expenses. As such, the company’s future income is not subject to the
consequences of changes in the assumptions associated with these plans.

Management believes that its judgment is applied consistently and produces
financial information that fairly depicts the results of operations for all
periods presented.

New Accounting Standards

The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 46, “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities,” in January 2003. The FASB revised FIN 46 in December 2003 to
clarify certain provisions and amend the effective date. FIN 46 provides
guidance on the consolidation of certain entities. The interpretation requires a
variable interest entity to be consolidated if the equity interest at risk is
not sufficient to permit that entity to finance its activities without support
from other parties or if the equity investors lack certain specified
characteristics. FIN 46 is effective December 31, 2003, for special-purpose
entities created before February 1, 2003, and is effective in the first quarter
of 2004 for all other variable interest entities. The company does not expect
the adoption of FIN 46 to have a material effect on its results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. Financial instruments subject to interest rate
risk include fixed-rate and variable-rate long-term debt obligations,
variable-rate commercial paper and short-term investments. As of December 31,
2003, the company had no short-term investments. Fixed-rate debt obligations
issued by the company are generally not putable until maturity and are not
actively traded by the company in the market. Therefore, exposure to interest
rate risk is not believed to be material for the company’s fixed-rate debt. A
hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in market rates of interest applicable to
the company’s commercial paper balances and floating-rate notes would not have
a material effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash
flows.

The company may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure
to interest rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2003, no interest rate swap
agreements were in effect.

The company also is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to
receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and certain inter-company
transactions in foreign currencies. The company principally uses foreign
currency forward contracts from time to time to hedge the price risk associated
with firmly committed and forecasted foreign-denominated payments, receipts and
inter-company transactions related to its ongoing business and operational
financing activities. Foreign currency contracts are sensitive to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2003, a 10 percent unfavorable
exchange rate movement in the company’s portfolio of foreign currency forward
contracts would have resulted in an incremental realized loss of $28 (pretax)
and an incremental unrealized loss of $22 million (pretax). Consistent with the
use of these contracts to neutralize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations,
such realized and unrealized losses would be offset by corresponding gains,
respectively, in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged.
When taken together, these forward contracts and the offsetting underlying
commitments do not create material market risk.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated Statement of Earnings

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of this statement.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Consolidated Balance Sheet

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral
part of this statement.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of this statement.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity

The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of this statement.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted)

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Organization.

The company’s businesses include mission-critical information
systems and technologies; land and expeditionary combat vehicles, armaments and
munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems; and business aviation. The company
also owns a coal mining operation and an aggregates operation. The company’s
primary customers are the U.S. military, other government organizations, the
armed forces of allied nations and a diverse base of corporate and industrial
buyers.

Basis
of Consolidation and Use of Estimates.

The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of all wholly owned and majority-owned
subsidiaries. Inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. The financial statements for all periods presented have been
restated to reflect the results of operations of the company’s undersea
fiber-optic cable-laying business in discontinued operations, as discussed in
Note C. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America (GAAP) require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from these estimates.

Revenue
Recognition.

The company accounts for sales and earnings under
long-term defense contracts and programs using the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 81-1,
“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type
Contracts.” The company applies earnings rates to all contract costs, including
general and administrative (G&A) expenses, to determine sales and operating
earnings. The company reviews earnings rates periodically to assess revisions
in contract values and estimated costs at completion. Based on these
assessments, any changes in earnings rates are made prospectively.

The
company charges any anticipated losses on contracts and programs to
earnings when identified. Such losses encompass all costs allocable to the
contracts, including G&A expenses on government contracts. The company
recognizes revenue arising from a claims process either as income or as an
offset against a potential loss only when the claim can be reliably estimated
and its realization is probable.

The
company accounts for contracts for aircraft certified by the Federal
Aviation Administration in accordance with Statement of Position 81-1. These
contracts usually provide for two major milestones: the manufacture of the
“green” aircraft and its completion. Completion includes exterior painting and
installation of customer-selected interiors and optional avionics. The company
records revenue at two points: when green aircraft are delivered to and
accepted by the customer and when the customer accepts final delivery of the
fully outfitted aircraft. The company recognizes sales of all other aircraft
products and services when the product is delivered or the service is
performed.

General
and Administrative Expenses.

G&A expenses were
$1.1 billion in 2003, $903 in
2002 and $808 in 2001, and are included in operating costs and expenses on the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings.

Interest
Expense, Net.

Interest expense was $108 in 2003, $58 in 2002 and $68
in 2001. Interest payments were $79 in 2003, $55 in 2002 and $70 in 2001.

Other
Income (Expense), Net.

Net other income in 2002 included a $36 pretax
gain on the sale of some assets of the company’s Space Propulsion operations
that were sold during the fourth quarter of 2002.

Cash
and Equivalents and Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

The company
classifies its securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities.” The company considers securities with a maturity of three
months or less to be cash equivalents. The company adjusts all investments in
debt and equity securities to fair value. The company recognizes market
adjustments in the statement of earnings for trading securities and as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale
securities. The company had available-for-sale investments of $43 at December
31, 2003, and $50 at December 31, 2002. The company had no investments
classified as trading securities at the end of either period.

Accounts
Receivable and Contracts in Process.

Accounts receivable represent
only amounts billed and currently due from customers. Recoverable costs and
accrued profit related to long-term defense contracts and programs on which
revenue has been recognized, but billings have not yet been presented to the
customer (unbilled receivables) are included in contracts in process.

Inventories.

Work-in-process inventories represent aircraft components and are
stated at the lower of cost (based on estimated average unit cost of the number
of units in a production lot, or specific identification) or market. Raw
materials are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. The company records pre-owned aircraft acquired in connection with the
sale of new aircraft at the lower of the trade-in value (determined at the time
of trade and based on estimated fair value) or estimated net realizable value.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Property, Plant and Equipment, Net.

Property, plant and equipment are carried
at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and
amortization. Most of the company’s assets are depreciated using the
straight-line method, with the remainder using accelerated methods. Buildings
and improvements are depreciated over periods up to 50 years. Machinery and
equipment are depreciated over periods up to 39 years. Depletion of mineral
reserves is computed using the units-of-production method.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets.

The company reviews long-lived assets,
including intangible assets subject to amortization, for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
asset may not be recoverable. The company assesses the recoverability of the
cost of the asset based on a review of projected undiscounted cash flows. In
the event an impairment loss is identified, it is recognized based on the
amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the
long-lived asset. If an asset is held for sale, the company reviews its
estimated fair value less cost to sell.

Environmental
Liabilities.

The company accrues environmental costs when it is
probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. The company recorded cleanup and other environmental exit costs
related to sold businesses at the time of disposal. Recorded liabilities have
not been discounted. To the extent the U.S. government has specifically agreed
to pay the ongoing maintenance and monitoring costs at sites currently used in
the conduct of the company’s government contracting business, the company
treats these costs as contract costs and recognizes the costs as paid.

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments.

The company’s financial instruments
include cash and equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, short- and
long-term debt and derivative financial instruments. The company estimates the
fair value of these financial instruments as follows:

•

Cash and equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable:

fair value
approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.

•

Short- and long-term debt:

fair value is generally based on quoted market prices.

•

Derivative financial instruments:

fair value is based on valuation models that use observable market quotes.

The differences between the estimated fair value and carrying value of the
company’s financial instruments were not material as of December 31, 2003 and
2002.

Stock-Based
Compensation.

The company accounts for its incentive compensation
plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees,” and related Interpretations. The company measures
compensation expense for stock options as the excess, if any, of the quoted
market price of the company’s stock at the measurement date over the exercise
price. The company records stock awards at fair value at the date of the award.
See Note P for a description of the company’s equity compensation plans.

Had
compensation expense for stock options been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates for awards under the company’s equity compensation
plans, the company’s net earnings and net earnings per share would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated as follows:

(a)

Represents restricted stock grants under the company’s 1997 Incentive
Compensation Plan.

The compensation cost calculated under the fair value approach shown above is
recognized over the vesting period of the stock options. Fair value of options
is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following assumptions for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively:

•

Expected dividend yields of 2.17 percent, 1.38 percent and 1.30 percent;

•

Expected volatility of 31.9 percent, 32.9 percent and 30.8 percent;

•

Risk-free interest rates of
1.73 percent, 2.98 percent and 4.70 percent; and

•

Expected lives of 27 to
51 months in 2003 and 2002, and 31 to 54 months in 2001.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Translation of Foreign Currencies.

The functional currencies for the company’s
international operations are the respective local currencies. The company
translates foreign currency balance sheets at the end-of-period exchange rates
and earnings statements at the average exchange rates for each period. The
company includes the resulting foreign currency translation adjustments in the
calculation of accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included in
shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Classification.

Consistent with defense industry practice, the company
classifies assets and liabilities related to long-term production contracts as
current, even though a portion of these amounts is not expected to be realized
within one year. In addition, certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified
to conform to the current-year presentation.

B. ACQUISITIONS, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL, NET

In 2003, the company completed the following acquisitions for a total cost of
approximately $3 billion, which was paid in cash:

Information Systems and Technology

•

Digital System Resources, Inc., (DSR) of Fairfax, Virginia, on September 10.
DSR is a provider of surveillance and combat systems for submarines and surface
ships.

•

Veridian Corporation (Veridian) of Arlington, Virginia, on August 11.
Veridian provides the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland
Security and the intelligence community with network security and enterprise
protection; intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems development
and integration; decision support; information systems development and
integration; chemical, biological and nuclear detection capabilities; network
and enterprise management services; and large-scale systems engineering.

•

Creative Technology Incorporated (CTI) of Herndon, Virginia, on March 31. CTI
supports the intelligence community and the Department of Defense by delivering
systems and network engineering, integration, software development, and
operations and technical consulting.

Combat Systems

•

Steyr Daimler Puch Spezialfahrzeug Aktiengesellschaft & Company KG (Steyr) of
Vienna, Austria, on October 2. Steyr develops and manufactures armored combat
vehicles, including the Pandur family of wheeled combat vehicles and the Ulan
tracked infantry fighting vehicle.

•

Intercontinental Manufacturing Company (IMCO) of Garland, Texas, a division
of Datron, Inc., on September 4. IMCO develops and manufactures aircraft bomb
bodies for the U.S. armed services.

•

General Motors Defense (GM Defense) of London, Ontario, a business unit of
General Motors Corporation, on March 1. GM Defense manufactures wheeled armored
vehicles and turrets.

In 2002, the company acquired the following businesses for a total cost of
$275, which was paid in cash:

Information Systems and Technology

•

Command System Incorporated (CSI) of Fort Wayne, Indiana, on August 27. CSI
provides command-and-control software and hardware to U.S. and international
military markets.

Combat Systems

•

Eisenwerke Kaiserslautern GmbH i.I. (EWK) of Kaiserslautern, Germany, on
October 31. EWK designs, develops and produces floating bridges and ferrying
equipment for military forces worldwide.

•

Advanced Technical Products, Inc., (ATP) on June 14. ATP manufactures
chemical and biological detection equipment and advanced composite-based
products that are used on many U.S. fighter aircraft, helicopters and unmanned
aerial vehicles.

In 2001, the company acquired the following businesses for a total cost of
approximately $1.4 billion, which was paid in cash:

Information Systems and Technology

•

Integrated Information Systems Group (IISG) of Scottsdale, Arizona, a
business unit of Motorola, Inc., on September 28. IISG provides technologies,
products and systems for information assurance, communications and situational
awareness markets in the United States and abroad.

Combat Systems

•

Primex Technologies, Inc.,
(renamed Ordnance and Tactical Systems (OTS)) of
St. Petersburg, Florida, on January 26. OTS provides medium- and large-caliber
ammunition, propellants, satellite propulsion systems and electronics products
to the United States and its allies, as well as domestic and international
industrial customers.

•

Empresa Nacional Santa Bárbara de Industrias Militares, S.A., (Santa Bárbara)
of Madrid, Spain, on July 25. Santa Bárbara produces combat vehicles and
munitions.

Aerospace

•

Galaxy Aerospace Company LP (Galaxy) of Dallas, Texas, on June 5. Galaxy
designs and manufactures the mid-cabin, high-speed Gulfstream G100 and the
large-cabin, mid-range Gulfstream G200.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


The operating results of these businesses have been included with those of the
company from their respective closing dates. The purchase prices of these
businesses have been allocated to the estimated fair value of net tangible and
intangible assets acquired, with any excess recorded as goodwill. Certain of
the estimates related to the Veridian, IMCO, DSR and Steyr acquisitions are
still preliminary at December 31, 2003. The company is awaiting the completion
of the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired. The company
expects these analyses to be completed during the first quarter of
2004.

Intangible assets consisted of the following:

The company amortizes contract and program intangible assets on a straight-line
basis over periods ranging from 5 to 40 years. Other intangible assets consist
primarily of aircraft product design, customer lists, software and licenses,
which are amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 15 years.

Amortization
expense was $70 in 2003, $34 in 2002 and $100 (including $70 of
goodwill amortization) in 2001. The company expects to record annual
amortization expense over the next five years as follows:


$



$



$



$



$


The company adopted SFAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” on
January 1, 2002. The provisions of SFAS 142 eliminate amortization of goodwill
and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets
with a finite life continue to be amortized over their useful life. The
standard also requires an impairment assessment of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually by applying a
fair-value-based test. The company completed the required annual impairment
test during the fourth quarter of 2003 and did not identify any impairment.

The
following table presents comparative earnings data as if SFAS 142 had been
adopted January 1, 2001:

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business group for the year
ended December 31, 2003, were as follows:

December 31, 2002

Acquisitions (a)

Other (b)

December 31, 2003

Information Systems and Technology

$

2,213

$

1,375

$

(7

)

$

3,581

Combat Systems


1,091


1,960

Marine Systems


—

—


Aerospace



—


Resources


—

—


$

3,510

$

2,467

$


$

6,083

(a)

Includes adjustments to preliminary assignment of fair value to net assets
acquired.

(b)

Consists of adjustments for currency translation.

C. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

The company exited its undersea fiber-optic cable-laying business in the fourth
quarter of 2002 because of substantial overcapacity in the market and a lack of
contract backlog. The results of this business’ operations had been included in
the Information Systems and Technology group since 1998. The company recognized
an after-tax loss of $134 in 2002, including an after-tax charge of $109 for
ship lease obligations and the write-down of assets to net realizable value. In
2003, the company favorably settled some of the liabilities associated with
this business, resulting in an after-tax gain of $7 from discontinued
operations.

The
summary of operating results from discontinued operations follows:

Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations are recorded in other current
assets and other current liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet and consisted of the following:

D. EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic
earnings per share for all periods presented is computed using net
earnings for the respective periods and the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share incorporates
the incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options and
the issuance of contingently issuable shares.

Basic
and diluted weighted average shares outstanding were as follows (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31




Basic weighted average
shares outstanding

197,790

201,357

201,142

Assumed exercise of stock
options (a)

1,237

1,467

1,608

Contingently issuable shares




Diluted weighted average
shares outstanding

199,152

202,852

202,907

(a)

Excludes the following outstanding options to purchase shares of common
stock because the options’ exercise price was greater than the average market
price for the shares: year ended December 31, 2003-3,337; year ended December
31, 2002-2,195; year ended December 31, 2001-422.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


E. INCOME TAXES

The net provision for income taxes for continuing operations is summarized as
follows:

(a)

The provision for state and local income taxes that is allocable to U.S.
government contracts is included in operating costs and expenses on the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings and, therefore, not included in the
provision above.

The reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax rate to the company’s
effective income tax rate follows:

Year Ended December 31




Statutory federal income tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Tax adjustments

(5.0

)

—

(2.0

)

State tax on commercial operations,
net of federal benefits

0.2

0.3

1.1

Qualified export sales exemption

(0.7

)

(0.9

)

(0.6

)

Tax credits

(1.5

)

(0.4

)

(0.4

)

Other, net

(0.7

)

(0.4

)

0.7

Effective income tax rate

27.3

%

33.6

%

33.8

%

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following:

The current portion of the net deferred tax asset was $333 at December 31,
2003, and $194 at December 31, 2002, and is included in other current assets on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 31, 2003, the company had U.S.
and foreign operating loss carryforwards of $43, the majority of which begin to
expire in 2017. The company had foreign investment tax credit carryforwards of
$16 that begin to expire in 2011, and U.S. capital loss carryforwards of $4
that begin to expire in 2009. The company provided a valuation allowance
totaling $56 as of December 31, 2003, and $48 as of December 31, 2002, on
certain of its deferred tax assets, the recovery of which is uncertain.

The Capital Construction Fund (CCF) is a program established by the U.S.
government and administered by the Maritime Administration. The purpose of the
program is to support the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or
operation of U.S. flag merchant marine vessels. It provides for the deferral of
federal and state income taxes on earnings derived from eligible programs as
long as the funds are deposited and used for qualified activities. Unqualified
withdrawals are subject to taxation plus interest. The CCF must be
collateralized by qualified assets defined by the Maritime Administration. At
December 31, 2003, the company had assigned approximately $297 in U.S.
government accounts receivable to the CCF.

Income tax payments were $268 in 2003, $377 in 2002 and $326 in 2001.

In 2003, the company and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reached agreement
with respect to the examination of the company’s income tax returns for 1996 to
1998. With the completion of this audit cycle, all of the

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



company’s consolidated federal income tax returns have been examined by the IRS
through 1998. Based on the results of those examinations, the company reduced
its liabilities for tax contingencies, recognizing a non-cash benefit of $49,
or $.25 per share. The company settled various other outstanding state tax
disputes during the year, resulting in a net non-cash benefit of $19, or $.10
per share.

During the first quarter of 2001, the company reduced its liabilities for tax
contingencies. The company recognized a non-cash benefit of $28, or $.14 per
share, as a result of this adjustment.

The IRS has commenced its examination of the company’s 1999 through 2002 income
tax returns. On November 27, 2001, the company filed a refund suit in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims, titled

General Dynamics v. United States

, for the
years 1991 to 1993. The company anticipates that the years 1994 to 1998 will be
added to this suit. The suit seeks recovery of refund claims that were
disallowed by the IRS at the administrative level. If the court awards a full
recovery to the company, the refund could exceed $100 (including after-tax
interest). The company expects the litigation to take several years to resolve.
The company has recognized no income from this matter.

The company has recorded liabilities for tax contingencies for open years. The
company does not expect the resolution of tax matters for these years to have a
material impact on its results of operations, financial condition or cash
flows.

F. CONTRACTS IN PROCESS

Contracts in process represent costs and accrued profit related to defense
contracts and programs and consisted of the following:

Contract costs include production costs and related overhead, such as G&A
expenses, as well as contract recoveries for such matters as contract changes,
negotiated settlements and claims for unanticipated contract costs, which
totaled $21 as of December 31, 2003, and $29 as of December 31, 2002. The
company records revenue associated with these matters as either income or as an
offset against a potential loss only when recovery can be reliably estimated
and realization is probable. Other contract costs represent amounts required to
be recorded under GAAP that are not currently allocable to contracts, such as a
portion of the company’s estimated workers’ compensation, other insurance-related assessments, retirement benefits and environmental expenses. These
costs will become allocable to contracts when they are paid. The company
expects to recover these costs through ongoing business, including both
existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. This business base includes
numerous contracts for which the company is the sole source or one of two
suppliers on long-term defense programs. If the level of backlog in the future
does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of
the company’s remaining contracts could be adversely affected.

G. INVENTORIES

Inventories primarily represent commercial aircraft components and consisted of
the following:

December 31



Work in process

$


$


Raw materials



Pre-owned aircraft



Other (a)



$

1,160

$

1,405

(a)

Consists primarily of coal and aggregates.

H. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

The major classes of property, plant and equipment were as follows:

(a)

The U.S. government provides certain of the company’s plant facilities; the
company does not include these facilities above.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


I. DEBT

Debt consisted of the following:

On April 3, 2003, the company filed a Form S-3 Registration Statement (the
Registration Statement) with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register
$3 billion of debt securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
Securities Act). On May 15, 2003, the company issued $2 billion of fixed-rate
notes pursuant to the Registration Statement, consisting of the following:

•

$500 aggregate principal amount of 2.125 percent notes maturing in 2006;

•

$500 aggregate principal amount of 3.000 percent notes maturing in 2008; and

•

$1 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.250 percent notes maturing in 2013.

On August 14, 2003, the company extended the debt registered to $3.1 billion
and issued an additional $1.1 billion of fixed-rate notes pursuant to the
Registration Statement, consisting of the following:

•

$700 aggregate principal amount of 4.500 percent notes maturing in 2010; and

•

$400 aggregate principal amount of 5.375 percent notes maturing in 2015.

The proceeds were used to repay a substantial portion of the company’s
outstanding commercial paper.

As of December 31, 2003, the company had outstanding $500 aggregate principal
amount of three-year floating-rate notes due September 1, 2004, which are
registered under the Securities Act. Interest on the notes resets quarterly at
three-month LIBOR plus 0.22 percent, and is payable each March, June, September
and December. The notes had an average interest rate of 1.50 percent for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

The fixed-rate notes and the floating-rate notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by certain of the company’s 100-percent-owned subsidiaries. The
notes are redeemable at the company’s option in whole or in part at any time
prior to their maturity at 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes to
be redeemed plus any accrued but unpaid interest on the date the notes are
redeemed and any applicable make-whole amounts. See Note S for condensed
consolidating financial statements.

As of December 31, 2003, the company had $183 of commercial paper outstanding
at an average yield of approximately 1.1 percent with an average maturity of
approximately 10 days. The company has $2 billion in bank credit facilities
that serve as back-up liquidity facilities to the commercial paper program.
These credit facilities consist of a $1 billion 364-day facility expiring in
July 2004, with provision to extend for one year at the company’s option when
drawn, and a $1 billion multiyear facility expiring in July 2006. The company’s
commercial paper issuances and the bank credit facilities are guaranteed by
certain of the company’s 100-percent-owned subsidiaries. Additionally, certain
international subsidiaries have available local bank credit facilities of
approximately $200.

The senior notes are privately placed U.S. dollar-denominated notes issued by
one of the company’s Canadian subsidiaries. Interest is payable semi-annually
at an annual rate of 6.32 percent, until maturity in September 2008. The
subsidiary has a currency swap, which fixes its foreign currency variability on
both the principal and interest components of these notes. As of December 31,
2003, the fair value of this currency swap was an $18 liability. The senior
notes are backed by a parent company guarantee.

The company assumed the term debt in connection with its acquisition of Primex
Technologies, Inc. Sinking fund payments of $5 are required in December of each
of the years 2004 through 2007, with the remaining

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



$20 payable in December 2008. Interest is payable in June and December at the
rate of 7.5 percent annually.

As of December 31, 2003, other debt consisted primarily of $42 related to
various debt facilities assumed in the acquisition of Steyr and a $15 note
payable to a Spanish insurance company. Annual principal payments on the note
payable are $13 in 2004 and $1 in 2005, with the balance due in 2006. Interest
is payable each December at a rate of 3.85 percent annually. The debt
associated with the acquisition of Steyr is scheduled to be extinguished during
the first half of 2004.

Certain of the company’s financing arrangements contain a number of customary
covenants and restrictions, including a minimum net worth threshold. The
company was in compliance with all material covenants as of December 31, 2003.

J. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

Other current liabilities consisted of the following:

December 31



Billings in excess of costs and estimated profits

$


$


Workers’ compensation



Customer deposits on commercial contracts



Salaries and wages



Retirement benefits



Liabilities of discontinued operations



Other (a)

1,000


$

3,552

$

2,776

(a)

Consists primarily of contract-related costs assumed in business
acquisitions, dividends payable, environmental remediation reserves and
warranty reserves.

K. OTHER LIABILITIES

Other liabilities consisted of the following:

December 31



Deferred U.S. federal income taxes

$


$


Retirement benefits



Customer deposits on commercial contracts



Accrued costs of disposed businesses (a)



Other (b)



$

1,350

$

1,229

(a)

Consists primarily of liabilities for postretirement benefits,
environmental and legal costs.

(b)

Consists primarily of liabilities for tax contingencies for open years,
warranty reserves and workers’ compensation.

L. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Authorized Stock.

On May 1, 2002, the company’s shareholders approved an
amendment to the company’s Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number
of authorized shares of common stock from 300 million shares to 500 million
shares of $1 per share par value common stock. Other authorized capital stock
of the company consists of 50 million shares of $1 per share par value
preferred stock issuable in series, with the rights, preferences and
limitations of each series to be determined by the board of directors.

Dividends per Share.

Dividends per share were $1.28 in 2003, $1.20 in 2002 and
$1.12 in 2001.

Shares Issued and Outstanding.

The company had 240,940,317 shares of common
stock issued as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. The company had 197,966,192
shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2003, and 200,993,102
shares outstanding as of December 31, 2002. No shares of the company’s
preferred stock were outstanding as of either date.

M. FINANCE OPERATION

The company leases three liquefied natural gas (LNG) tankers to an unrelated
company. The leases are financed by privately placed bonds, which are secured
by the LNG tankers. The bonds are callable under certain conditions and are
nonrecourse to the company. Accordingly, the company is not obligated to repay
the debt in the event the lessee defaults on the lease payments. Outstanding
debt was $3 at December 31, 2003, and $21 at December 31, 2002. The final
principal payment of $3 is scheduled to be made in 2004. The weighted average
interest rate on the debt is 6.2 percent.

The leases are classified as direct financing leases and extend through 2009.
The components of the company’s net investment in the leases receivable were as
follows:

December 31



Aggregate future minimum lease payments

$


$


Unguaranteed residual value



Unearned interest income

(51

)

(64

)

$


$


The company is scheduled to receive minimum lease payments of $24 in 2004 and
$21 in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


N. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT

The company is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to
receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and certain inter-company
transactions in foreign currencies.

The company periodically enters into derivative financial instruments,
principally foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts, typically
with terms of less than one year. These instruments are designed to hedge the
company’s exposure to changes in exchange rates related to both known and
anticipated inter-company and third-party sale and purchase commitments made in
non-functional currencies. The company also has a currency swap designated as a
cash flow hedge that fixes its foreign currency variability on both the
principal and interest components of U.S. dollar-denominated debt held by one
of the company’s Canadian subsidiaries, as discussed in Note I. There were no
derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or net investment
hedges during the year ended December 31, 2003. As a matter of policy, the
company does not engage in interest rate or currency speculation.

All
derivative financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet at fair value. Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings or in accumulated other comprehensive
income depending on whether the derivative is designated and qualifies for
hedge accounting, the type of hedge transaction represented and the
effectiveness of the hedge.

For derivative financial instruments not designated as cash flow hedges, the
company marks these forward contracts to market each period and records the
gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The gains and losses on these
instruments offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and other
transactions being hedged.

Gains and losses related to forward exchange contracts that qualify as cash
flow hedges and the currency swap are deferred in accumulated other
comprehensive income with a corresponding asset or liability until the
underlying transaction occurs. The gains and losses reported in accumulated
other comprehensive income will be reclassified to earnings upon completion of
the underlying transaction being hedged.

As of December 31, 2003, the fair value of the currency swap was an $18
liability, which offset the effect of changes in the currency exchange rate on
the related debt. The fair value of outstanding forward exchange contracts was
not material. Net gains and losses recognized in earnings in 2003 were not
material. The company expects the amount of gains and losses in accumulated
other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to earnings in 2004 will
not be material.

O. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Litigation

Termination of A-12 Program.

In January 1991, the Navy terminated the company’s
A-12 aircraft contract for default. The A-12 contract was a fixed-price
incentive contract for the full-scale development and initial production of the
Navy’s carrier-based Advanced Tactical Aircraft. Both the company and McDonnell
Douglas, now owned by The Boeing Company, (the contractors), were parties to
the contract with the Navy; each had full responsibility to the Navy for
performance under the contract; and both are jointly and severally liable for
potential liabilities arising from the termination. As a consequence of the
termination for default, the Navy demanded that the contractors repay $1.4
billion in unliquidated progress payments, but agreed to defer collection of
the amount pending a decision by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims on the
contractors’ challenge to the termination for default, or a negotiated
settlement.

On December 19, 1995, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued an order
converting the termination for default to a termination for convenience. On
March 31, 1998, a final judgment was entered in favor of the contractors for
$1.2 billion plus interest.

On July 1, 1999, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit remanded the
case for determination of whether the government’s default termination was
justified. On August 31, 2001, following the trial on remand, the Trial Court
issued an opinion upholding the default termination of the A-12 contract. In
its opinion, the Trial Court rejected all of the government’s arguments to
sustain the default termination except for the government’s schedule arguments,
as to which the Trial Court held that the schedule the government unilaterally
imposed was reasonable and enforceable, and that the government had not waived
that schedule. On the sole ground that the contractors were not going to
deliver the first aircraft on the date provided in the unilateral schedule, the
Trial Court upheld the default termination and entered judgment for the
government.

On November 30, 2001, the company filed its notice of appeal, and on January 9,
2003, the appeal was argued before a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals.
On March 17, 2003, the Court of Appeals vacated the Trial Court’s judgment and
remanded the case to the Trial Court for further proceedings. The Court of
Appeals found that the Trial Court misapplied the controlling legal standard in
concluding that the termination for default could be sustained solely on the
basis of the contractors’ inability to complete the first flight of the first
test aircraft by December 1991. Rather, the Court of Appeals held that in order
to uphold a termination for default the Trial Court would have to determine
that there was no reasonable likelihood that the contractors could perform the
entire contract effort within the time remaining for performance. This is a
determination the company does not believe is supported by the

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



evidence. A government petition for rehearing in the Court of Appeals was
denied on August 27, 2003, and the case was again remanded to the Trial Court
for further proceedings.

If, contrary to the company’s expectations, the default termination is
ultimately sustained, the contractors could collectively be required to repay
the government as much as $1.4 billion for progress payments received for the
A-12 contract, plus interest, which was approximately $1.1 billion at December
31, 2003. This would result in a liability for the company of approximately
$1.2 billion pretax, $700 after-tax, to be taken as a charge against
discontinued operations. The company believes it has sufficient resources to
pay such an obligation if required.

Final Analysis.

On May 28, 2003, Final Analysis Communication Systems, Inc.
(FACS), a Maryland corporation, served the company with a complaint it filed on
January 30, 2003, in the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. On November 18, 2003, FACS filed an amended complaint alleging that
the company breached contracts among the company, FACS and FACS’ then-corporate
parent, Final Analysis, Inc., a Maryland corporation currently a debtor in the
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Maryland. It also purports to allege
various tort claims for fraud, defamation and tortious interference with
contractual and business relations. The amended complaint alleges monetary
damages in excess of $500, plus punitive damages. On December 3, 2003, the
company filed its response to the amended complaint, including a motion to
dismiss the purported tort claims. The company believes the outcome of this
matter will not have a material impact on its results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.

Glen
Cove.

On August 8, 2003, a subsidiary of the company received a
grand jury subpoena issued by the United States Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of New York relating to its Glen Cove,
New York operations for the period from January 1, 2000, to August 8,
2003. Such operations were acquired by the company in June, 2002. The
company conducted an internal investigation of the Glen Cove
operations through outside counsel and intends to fully cooperate with
the government. As a result of its investigation, management made
changes to the Glen Cove operations, and subsequently announced the
facility’s closure effective year-end 2004. While the government
investigation will continue for some additional period of time, the
company believes the outcome of this matter will not have a material
impact on its results of operations, financial condition or cash
flows.

Other.

Various claims and other legal proceedings incidental to the normal
course of business are pending or threatened against the company. While the
company cannot predict the outcome of these matters, the company believes any
potential liabilities in these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate,
will not have a material impact on its results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.

Environmental

The company is subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local
and foreign environmental laws and regulations. The company is directly or
indirectly involved in environmental responses at some of its current and
former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by the company but where
it has been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. The company is
also involved in the investigation, cleanup and remediation of various
conditions at current and former company sites where the release of hazardous
materials may have occurred. Based on historical experience, the company
expects that a significant percentage of the total remediation and compliance
costs associated with these facilities will continue to be allowable costs and,
therefore, reimbursed by the U.S. government. Based on a site-by-site review
and analyses by outside counsel and environmental consultants, the company
believes that its liability at any individual site, or in the aggregate,
arising from such sites at which there is a known environmental condition, or
Superfund or other multi-party sites at which the company is a PRP, is not
material to its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
Moreover, based on all known facts and analyses, the company does not believe
that the range of reasonably possible additional loss beyond what has been
recorded would be material to its results of operations, financial condition or
cash flows.

Minimum Lease Payments

Total rental expense under operating leases was $113 in 2003, $98 in 2002 and
$93 in 2001. Operating leases are primarily for facilities and equipment.
Future minimum lease payments due during the next five years are as follows:


$










2009 and thereafter


$


Other

In the ordinary course of business, the company has entered into letters of
credit and other similar arrangements with financial institutions and insurance
carriers totaling $921 at December 31, 2003. The company, from time to time in
the ordinary course of business, guarantees the payment or performance
obligations of its subsidiaries arising under certain of their contracts. The
company is aware of no event of default that would require it to satisfy these
guarantees.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


As a government contractor, the company is from time to time subject to U.S.
government investigations relating to its operations, including claims for
fines, penalties and compensatory and treble damages. The company believes,
based on current available information, that the outcome of such ongoing
government disputes and investigations will not have a material effect on its
results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

On June 5, 2001, the company acquired substantially all of the assets of Galaxy
Aerospace Company LP. The selling parties may receive additional payments, up
to a maximum of approximately $300 through 2006, contingent on the achievement
of specific revenue targets.

As of December 31, 2003, in connection with orders for six Gulfstream G550s and
one Gulfstream G200 aircraft in firm contract backlog, the company had offered
customers trade-in options, which may or may not be exercised by the customers.
If these options are exercised, the company will accept trade-in aircraft
(principally Gulfstream aircraft) at a predetermined minimum trade-in price as
partial consideration in the new aircraft transaction. Any excess of the
trade-in price above the fair market value is treated as a reduction of revenue
upon recording of the new aircraft sales transaction. These option commitments
last through 2005 and totaled $229 as of December 31, 2003, down from $551 at
December 31, 2002. Beyond these commitments, additional aircraft trade-ins are
likely to be accepted throughout the year in connection with future orders for
new aircraft.

The company provides product warranties to its customers associated with
certain product sales, particularly business aircraft. The company has also
offered, on a limited basis, a five-year maintenance program that supplements
the standard product warranties on Gulfstream G200, Gulfstream G400 and
Gulfstream G550 aircraft models. The company records estimated warranty costs
in the period in which the related products are delivered. The warranty
liability recorded at each balance sheet date is based on the estimated number
of months of warranty coverage remaining for products delivered and the average
historical monthly warranty payments, and is included in other current
liabilities and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The changes in the carrying amount of warranty liabilities for the year ended
December 31, 2003, were as follows:

December 31, 2002

Warranty Expense

Payments

Adjustments (a)

December 31, 2003

Warranty liabilities

$


$


$

(60

)

$


$


(a)

Includes warranty liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions.

P. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

As of December 31, 2003, the company has various equity compensation plans for
employees as well as non-employee members of the board of directors, including:

•

The General Dynamics Corporation 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan (Incentive Compensation Plan);

•

The General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (U.K. Plan);

•

The General Dynamics Corporation Non-employee Directors’ 1999 Stock Plan (Directors’ Stock Plan); and

•

Various equity compensation plans assumed with the acquisition of Gulfstream in 1999 (Gulfstream Plans).

Under the Incentive Compensation Plan, awards may be granted to employees in
cash, common stock, options to purchase common stock, restricted shares of
common stock or any combination of these. Awards of stock options and
restricted stock are intended to qualify as deductible, performance-based
compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code). Incentive Compensation Plan awards of cash and unrestricted
stock are not designed to be deductible by the company under Section 162(m).

Stock options may be granted either as incentive stock options, intended to
qualify under Section 422 of the Code, or as options not qualified under the
Code. All options are issued with an exercise price at or above 100 percent of
the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Awards under
the Incentive Compensation Plan generally vest over two years, with 50 percent
of the options vesting on the one-year anniversary of the date of grant and the
remaining 50 percent vesting on the two-year anniversary of the date of grant.

A grant of restricted shares pursuant to the Incentive Compensation Plan is a
transfer of shares of common stock, for such consideration and subject to such
restrictions as the Compensation Committee (or its subcommittee) may determine.
Until the end of the applicable period of restriction, the restricted shares
may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated. However, during the period of restriction, the recipient of
restricted shares is entitled to vote

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



the restricted shares and to retain cash dividends paid thereon. Awards of
restricted shares may be granted pursuant to a performance formula whereby the
number of shares initially granted increases or decreases based on the increase
or decrease in the price of the common stock over a performance period.

On March 3, 2004, the company’s board of directors adopted the General Dynamics
Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (the Equity Compensation Plan) and
recommended submission to shareholders for their approval at the annual meeting
of shareholders to be held on May 5, 2004. The purpose of the Equity
Compensation Plan is to provide the company with an effective means of
attracting, retaining and motivating officers, key employees and non-employee
directors, and to provide them with incentives to enhance the growth and
profitability of the company.

The Equity Compensation Plan is intended to replace, on a prospective basis,
the Incentive Compensation Plan and the Directors’ Stock Plan (the prior
plans). If the shareholders approve the Equity Compensation Plan, no new grant
of awards will be made under the prior plans. Any awards previously granted
under the prior plans will remain outstanding thereunder and will, among other
things, continue to vest and become exercisable in accordance with their
original terms and conditions. In the event the Equity Compensation Plan does
not receive shareholder approval prior to March 3, 2005, the Equity
Compensation Plan will terminate, no grant of awards will be made or exist
thereunder and the prior plans will continue in effect.

Under the U.K. Plan, employees of General Dynamics U.K. Ltd. may invest
designated amounts in a savings account to be used
to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock, based on option
grants that the employee may receive, at an exercise price of not less than 80
percent of the fair market value of the common stock. The options may be
exercised three, five or seven years after the date of grant.

Options granted under the Gulfstream Plans prior to the company’s acquisition
of Gulfstream were subject to different vesting periods based on the terms of
the plans. At the time of the acquisition, substantially all of the outstanding
Gulfstream options became fully vested. No additional awards or grants may be
made under the Gulfstream Plans.

Under the Directors’ Stock Plan, the company may also grant awards of cash,
common stock, options to purchase common stock, restricted shares of common
stock or any combination of these to any member of the company’s board of
directors who is not an employee of the company.

There were 1,338,461 shares of restricted stock outstanding at December 31,
2003. Information with respect to restricted stock awards follows:

Year Ended December 31




Number of shares awarded

408,064

375,043

340,888

Weighted average grant price

$

58.54

$

88.23

$

71.39

At December 31, 2003, in addition to the shares reserved for issuance on the
exercise of options outstanding, 3,609,413 shares have been authorized for
options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future. Information
with respect to stock options follows:


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


Information with respect to stock options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2003, is as follows:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Number Outstanding at

Weighted-Average

Weighted-Average

Number Exercisable at

Weighted-Average

Range of Exercise Prices

12/31/03

Remaining Contractual Life

Exercise Price

12/31/03

Exercise Price

$4.10

17,375

0.85

$

4.10

17,375

$

4.10

42.72-56.81

1,575,113

1.30

43.32

1,486,592

43.19

56.85-63.03

3,779,895

3.84

57.14

323,711

59.08

63.41-73.59

1,735,758

2.13

70.70

1,666,845

70.75

76.02-104.48

2,560,478

3.05

91.59

1,184,689

91.44

9,668,619

4,679,212

Q. RETIREMENT PLANS

The company provides defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits
to certain eligible employees. The following is a reconciliation of the benefit
obligations, plan/trust assets and funded status of the company’s plans:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
$5,821 at December 31, 2003, and $4,919 at December 31, 2002. The accumulated
benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits attributed to
employee services rendered to date excluding assumptions about future
compensation levels.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs consisted of the
following:

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits







Service cost

$


$


$


$


$


$


Interest cost







Expected return on plan assets

(522

)

(520

)

(486

)

(26

)

(26

)

(25

)

Recognized net actuarial gain

(4

)

(25

)

(41

)


(2

)

(3

)

Amortization of unrecognized transition (asset) obligation

—

(2

)

(7

)




Amortization of prior service cost






(1

)

Net periodic cost (income)

$


$


$

(33

)

$


$


$


The following table presents the assumptions used to determine the company’s
benefit obligations and net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit
costs.

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits

Assumptions at December 31







Weighted average used to determine benefit obligations

Discount rate

6.25

%

7.00

%

7.25

%

6.25

%

7.00

%

7.25

%

Varying rates of increase in compensation levels based on age

4.00-11.00

%

4.00-11.00

%

4.00-11.00

%

Weighted average used to determine net cost for the
year ended

Discount rate

7.00

%

7.25

%

7.50

%

7.00

%

7.25

%

7.50

%

Expected weighted average long-term rate of return on assets

8.26

%

8.34

%

8.16

%

8.00

%

8.00

%

8.00

%

Varying rates of increase in compensation levels based on age

4.00-11.00

%

4.00-11.00

%

4.00-11.00

%

Assumed health care cost trend rate for next year:

Post-65 claim groups

10.75

%

11.75

%

4.75

%

Pre-65 claim groups

10.75

%

11.75

%

4.75

%

The company relies on historical long-term rates of return by asset class, the
current long-term U.S. Treasury bond rate, and the current and expected asset
allocation strategy to determine its expected long-term rate of return
assumptions.

Pension Benefits.

As of December 31, 2003, the company had eight
noncontributory and five contributory trusteed, qualified defined benefit
pension plans covering substantially all of its government business employees,
and two noncontributory plans covering substantially all of its commercial
business employees. Under certain plans, benefits are a function primarily of
both the employee’s years of service and level of compensation; under other
plans, benefits are a function primarily of years of service.

It is the company’s policy to fund the plans to the maximum extent deductible
under existing federal income tax regulations. Such contributions are intended
to provide not only for benefits attributed to service to date, but also for
benefits to be earned in the future. The company expects to contribute
approximately $30 to its pension plans in 2004.

The company’s pension investment policy endeavors to strike the appropriate
balance among capital preservation, asset growth and current income. Target
allocation percentages vary over time depending on the perceived risk of
various asset classes and existing market conditions. The company invests
almost exclusively in U.S. publicly traded securities and may use derivative
instruments on a non-leveraged basis to gain exposure to an asset class or to
reduce anticipated asset volatility.

The
pension plans’ weighted average asset allocations at December 31, 2003 and
2002, by asset category, are as follows:

December 31



U.S. common stocks


%


%

U.S. common stocks with risk-mitigating hedges


%


%

Fixed income


%


%


%


%


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


The company amortizes changes in prior service cost resulting from plan
amendments on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period
of employees expected to receive benefits under the plan.

The
company uses a December 31 measurement date for its
plans.

The company’s
contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of
contributions to the company’s government plans. The amount contributed to
certain plans, charged to contracts and included in net sales has exceeded the
net periodic pension cost as determined under SFAS No. 87. The company has
deferred recognition of earnings resulting from this difference to provide a
better matching of revenues and expenses. Similarly, pension settlements and
curtailments under the government plans have also been deferred. These
deferrals have been classified against the prepaid pension cost related to
these plans.

The company’s commercial plans’ net prepaid pension cost of $336 and $321 at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, is included in other noncurrent
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

In addition to the qualified defined benefit plans, the company provides
eligible employees the opportunity to participate in defined contribution
savings plans, which permit contributions on both a pretax and after-tax basis.
Generally, salaried employees and certain hourly employees are eligible to
participate upon commencement of employment with the company. Under most plans,
the employee may contribute to various investment alternatives, including
investment in the company’s common stock. In certain plans, the company matches
a portion of the employees’ contributions with contributions to a fund that
invests in the company’s common stock. The company’s contributions to the
defined contribution plans totaled $79 in 2003, $80 in 2002 and $64 in 2001.
Approximately 17 and 15 million shares of the company’s common stock were held
by the defined contribution plans at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The company also sponsors several unfunded non-qualified supplemental executive
plans, which provide participants with additional benefits, including excess
benefits over limits imposed on qualified plans by federal law. The recorded
liability and expense related to these plans are not material to the company’s
results of operations or financial condition.

Other Postretirement Benefits.

The company maintains plans providing
postretirement health care coverage for many of its current and former
employees and postretirement life insurance benefits for certain retirees.
These benefits vary by employment status, age, service and salary level at
retirement. The coverage provided and the extent to which the retirees share in
the cost of the program vary throughout the company. Both health and life
insurance benefits are provided only to those employees who retire directly
from the service of the company and not to those who terminate
service/seniority prior to eligibility for retirement.

The company maintains several Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association
(VEBA) trusts for certain plans. It is the company’s policy to fund the VEBAs
in accordance with existing federal income tax regulations. At December 31,
2003, the majority of the VEBA trusts’ assets were invested in diversified U.S.
common stocks with risk-mitigating hedges, U.S. fixed income securities and
bank notes. For non-funded plans, claims are paid as received. The company
expects to contribute approximately $44 to its other postretirement benefit
plans in 2004.

The company’s contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the
recovery of contributions to a VEBA and, for non-funded plans, recovery of
claims paid. The net periodic postretirement benefit cost exceeds the company’s
cost currently allocable to contracts. To the extent recovery of the cost is
considered probable based on the company’s backlog, the company defers the
excess in contracts in process until such time that the cost is allocable to
contracts.

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. The health care cost trend rates are
assumed to decline gradually to 4.75 percent for post-65 and pre-65 claim
groups in the year 2009 and thereafter over the projected payout period of the
benefits. The effect of a one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the
assumed health care cost trend rate on the total service and interest cost is
$5 and $(5), respectively, and the effect on the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation is $82 and $(70), respectively.

On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act introduced a
Medicare prescription-drug benefit and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree
health care plans. The FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 106-1,
“Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,” in January 2004. FSP 106-1
permits a sponsor of a postretirement health care plan to make a one-time
election to defer accounting for the effects of the Act until final
authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is issued. As
such, the company has elected to defer recognition of the effects of the Act.
Depending on the transition provisions provided in the final guidance, the
company may be required to change previously reported information upon adoption
of the new standard. The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net
periodic postretirement benefit costs disclosed above do not reflect the
effects of the Act.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



R. BUSINESS GROUP INFORMATION

The company operates in four primary business groups: Information Systems and
Technology, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Aerospace. The company organizes
and measures its business groups in accordance with the nature of products and
services offered. These business groups derive their revenues from
mission-critical information systems and technologies; land and expeditionary
combat vehicles, armaments and munitions; shipbuilding and marine systems;
and business aviation, respectively. The company also owns certain commercial
operations that are identified for reporting purposes as Resources. The company
measures each group’s profit based on operating earnings. As a result, net
interest, other income and expense items and income taxes have not been
allocated to the company’s business groups.

Summary financial information for each of the company’s business groups
follows:

Net Sales

Operating Earnings

Sales to U.S. Government










Information Systems and Technology

$

4,978

$

3,681

$

2,691

$


$


$


$

3,982

$

2,801

$

1,991

Combat Systems

4,166

2,923

2,210




2,921

2,321

1,785

Marine Systems

4,271

3,650

3,612




3,966

3,435

3,403

Aerospace

2,946

3,289

3,265







Resources (a)







—

—

—

$

16,617

$

13,829

$

12,054

$

1,467

$

1,582

$

1,486

$

11,027

$

8,806

$

7,319

Identifiable Assets

Capital Expenditures

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization










Information Systems and Technology

$

5,800

$

3,613

$

3,374

$


$


$


$


$


$


Combat Systems

4,682

2,439

2,118







Marine Systems

2,171

1,933

1,731







Aerospace

2,592

2,505

2,360







Resources (a)










Corporate (b)



1,173







$

16,183

$

11,731

$

11,069

$


$


$


$


$


$


(a)

Resources includes the results of the company’s coal and aggregates
operations, as well as a portion of the operating results of the company’s
commercial pension plans.

(b)

Corporate identifiable assets include cash and equivalents from domestic
operations, deferred taxes, real estate held for development and a portion of
the net prepaid pension cost related to the company’s commercial pension plans.

The following table presents revenues by geographic area (based on the location
of the company’s customers):


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


S. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The fixed-rate notes and the floating-rate notes described in Note I are fully
and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured, joint and several basis by
certain 100-percent-owned subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation (the
Guarantors). The following condensed consolidating financial statements illustrate the composition of the parent, the Guarantors
on a combined basis (each Guarantor together with its majority-owned
subsidiaries) and all other subsidiaries on a combined basis as of December 31,
2003 and 2002, for the balance sheet, as well as the statements of earnings and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003.

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF EARNINGS

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

To the Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation:

The management of General Dynamics Corporation is responsible for the
consolidated financial statements and all related financial information
contained in this report. The financial statements, which include amounts based
on estimates and judgments, have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America applied on a
consistent basis.

The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls designed and
intended to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that
transactions are executed and recorded in accordance with management’s
authorization and that accountability for assets is maintained. An environment
that establishes an appropriate level of control consciousness is maintained
and monitored by management. An important element of the monitoring process is
an internal audit program that independently assesses the effectiveness of the
control environment.

The
Audit Committee of the board of directors, which is composed of five
outside directors, meets periodically and, when appropriate, separately with
the independent auditors, management and internal audit to review the
activities of each.

The financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, independent auditors,
whose report follows.

Michael J. Mancuso

John W. Schwartz

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Vice President and Controller

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To General Dynamics Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of General
Dynamics Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December
31, 2003 and 2002, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings,
Shareholders’ Equity and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2003. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of General Dynamics
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The condensed consolidating financial
statements provided in Note S are presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and are not part of the basic
financial statements. These condensed consolidating financial statements have
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects
the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.

As discussed in Note B to the consolidated financial statements, General
Dynamics Corporation changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other
intangible assets effective January 1, 2002, to adopt the provisions of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

KPMG LLP

McLean, Virginia

January 20, 2004

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (Unaudited)

Quarterly data is based on a 13-week period.

(a)

The sum of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the four quarters
of the year may differ from the annual basic and diluted earnings per share due
to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in
interim periods.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

The company’s management, under the supervision and with the participation of
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rules 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of
December 31, 2003. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2003, the company’s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

There
were no significant changes in the company’s internal controls over
financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2003, that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
company’s internal controls over financial reporting.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required to be set forth herein, except for the information
included under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Code of Ethics, is
included in the sections entitled “Election of the Board of Directors of the
Company,” “Audit Committee Report” and “Other Information — Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the company’s definitive proxy
statement for its 2004 annual shareholders meeting (the Proxy Statement),
including Appendix A thereto, which sections are incorporated herein by
reference.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

All executive officers of the company are elected annually. No executive
officer of the company was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and any other person. The name, age, offices
and positions held for the last five years of the company’s executive officers
as of March 5, 2004, were as follows:

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



Code of Ethics

The company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals that
applies to the company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer,
controller and any person performing similar functions for the company. The
company has also adopted a Code of Conduct for members of the Board of
Directors and a handbook of Standards of Business Ethics and Conduct
that is applicable to all employees of the company. Copies of the foregoing, as well as
the company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the
standing committees of the Board of Directors (including the Audit, Nominating
and Corporate Governance, and Compensation Committees) are available on the
company’s website (http://www.generaldynamics.com), and are also available in
print to any shareholder upon request by calling investor relations at (703)
876-3000. The company intends to disclose on its website any amendments to, or
waivers from, its Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct or Standards of Business
Ethics and Conduct on behalf of any financial professional, director or executive officer
of the company. The information contained on or connected to the company’s
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the
SEC.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required to be set forth herein is included in the section
entitled “Executive Compensation” in the company’s Proxy Statement, which
section is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections
entitled “Security Ownership of Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners” in the company’s Proxy Statement, which sections are
incorporated herein by reference.

The information required to be set forth herein with respect to securities
authorized for issuance under the company’s equity compensation plans is
included in the section entitled “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the
company’s Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required to be set forth herein is included in the section
entitled “Election of the Board of Directors of the Company — Transactions
Involving Directors and the Company” in the company’s Proxy Statement, which
section is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required to be set forth herein is included in the section
entitled “Audit and Non-Audit Fees” in the company’s Proxy Statement, including
Appendix B thereto, which section is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.

Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Earnings

Consolidated Balance Sheet

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (A to S)

2.

Financial Statement Schedules

No schedules are submitted because they are either not applicable or not
required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or the Notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits

See Index on pages 60 through 63 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

On October 21, 2003, the company furnished a Form 8-K under Item 9, Regulation
FD Disclosure, announcing that anticipated 2003 revenues were updated to
approximately $16.1 billion during the company’s October 15, 2003, webcast
teleconference.

On October 15, 2003, the company furnished a Form 8-K under Item 9, Regulation
FD Disclosure, and Item 12, Results of Operations and Financial Condition,
announcing the company’s financial results for the quarter ended September 28,
2003.


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

By:

/s/ John W. Schwartz

John W. Schwartz

Vice President and Controller

March 5, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this report has been signed below on March 5, 2004, by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including
a majority of the directors.

*By David A. Savner pursuant to a Power of Attorney executed by the directors
listed above, which Power of Attorney has been filed as an exhibit hereto and
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

/s/ David A. Savner

David A. Savner

Secretary

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibits listed below, which have been filed with the Commission pursuant to
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and which were filed as noted below, are hereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of this report with the same effect as if filed
herewith.

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Certificate of Amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2002, filed with the Commission May 15, 2002)

3.2

Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission
August 11, 1999)

3.3

Amended and Restated By-Laws of the company (as amended effective June 5, 2002) (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2002, filed with the Commission November 12, 2002)

4.1

Indenture dated as of August 27, 2001, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference from the company’s registration statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-77024), filed with the Commission January 18, 2002)

4.2

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 27, 2001, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York,
as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s registration statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-77024), filed with the Commission
January 18, 2002)

4.3

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 15, 2003, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York,
as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission May 16, 2003)

4.4

Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 14, 2003, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York,
as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission August 14, 2003)


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibit

Number

Description

10.1*

Employment Agreement between the company and Nicholas D. Chabraja dated August 7, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference from the
company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, filed with the Commission August 14, 2002)

10.2*

Employment Agreement between the company and Kenneth C. Dahlberg dated February 13, 2001 (incorporated herein by reference from the
company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, filed with the Commission March 29, 2002)

10.3*

Retirement Benefit Agreement between the company and Michael J. Mancuso dated March 6, 1998 (incorporated herein by reference from the
company’s annual report on Form 10-K (No. 001-03671) for the year ended December 31, 1997, filed with the Commission March 18, 1998)

10.4*

Retirement Benefit Agreement between the company and David A. Savner dated March 4, 1998 (incorporated herein by reference from the
company’s annual report on Form 10-K (No. 001-03671) for the year ended December 31, 1998, filed with the Commission March 18, 1999)

10.5*

General Dynamics Equity Compensation Plan**

10.6*

Successor Retirement Plan for Directors (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001, filed with the Commission March 29, 2002)

10.7*

General Dynamics Corporation Non-employee Directors’ 1999 Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s annual report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission March 24, 2003)

10.8*

General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission March 24, 2003)

10.9*

General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Stock Investment Plan, as amended and restated effective August 1, 2003 (incorporated
herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form S-8 (No. 333-107901), filed with the Commission August 13, 2003)

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report



INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibit

Number

Description

10.10*

General Dynamics Corporation Second Amended and Restated 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2002, filed with the Commission November 12, 2002)

10.11*

Form of Severance Protection Agreement entered into by substantially all executive officers (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 29, 2002, filed with the Commission November 12, 2002)

10.12*

General Dynamics Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, filed with the Commission August 14, 2002)

10.13*

Executive Life Insurance Policy provided by Aetna Life Insurance Company (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report
on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, filed with the Commission August 14, 2002)

10.14*

Excess Liability Policy provided by CNA Insurance Company (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, filed with the Commission August 14, 2002)

10.15*

Accidental Death & Dismemberment Policy provided by Lloyd’s, London (incorporated herein by reference from the company’s quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002, filed with the Commission August 14, 2002)


Subsidiaries**


Consent of KPMG LLP**


Power of Attorney of the Board of Directors**

31.1

Certification by CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**

31.2

Certification by CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**


General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report


INDEX TO EXHIBITS — GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION

COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671

Exhibit

Number

Description

32.1

Certification by CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**

32.2

Certification by CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**

99.1

2000 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated herein by reference
from the company’s annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed with the Commission June 29, 2001)

99.2

2000 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Hourly Employees’ Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated
herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000, filed with the Commission June
29, 2001)

99.3

2001 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated herein by reference
from the company’s annual report on Form 11-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, filed with the Commission June 28, 2002)

99.4

2001 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Hourly Employees’ Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated
herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form 11-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, filed with the Commission June 28,
2002)

99.5

2002 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated herein by reference
from the company’s annual report on Form 11-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission June 27, 2003)

99.6

2002 Annual Report on Form 11-K for the General Dynamics Corporation Hourly Employees’ Savings and Stock Investment Plan (incorporated
herein by reference from the company’s annual report on Form 11-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission June 27,
2003)

*

Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.

**

Filed herewith.

General Dynamics 2003 Annual Report

63