
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPT. 30, 1998



                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                             ----------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                             ----------------------

(Mark One)

         [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998

                                       OR

         [ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        For the transition period from to

                         Commission file number: 0-45138
                                 SYNOPSYS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                  56-1546236
  (State or other jurisdiction           (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
of incorporation or organization)

                            700 East Middlefield Road
                      Mountain View, California 94043-4033
          (Address of Principal Executive Offices, including ZIP Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (650) 962-5000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
            Title of each class                       on which registered
            -------------------                       -------------------
                   None                                        None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                          Common Stock, $0.01 par value
                         Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. [X] Yes [ ] No

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

        The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of December 4, 1998, was approximately $3,364,251,000.

        On December 4, 1998, approximately 68,361,000 shares of the registrant's
Common Stock, $0.01 par value, were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

        (1) Portions of the registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998 are incorporated by reference into
Parts I, II and IV hereof.

        (2) Portions of the registrant's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy
Statement for the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
March 1, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.





        Except for the historical information presented, the matters discussed
in this Form 10-K include forward looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ
materially from those projected in the forward looking statements as a result of
risk factors that include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the
caption "Factors That May Affect Future Results" under "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated by reference in this
Form 10-K and is included in Exhibit 13.1 hereto, as well as factors discussed
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.



                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

        Synopsys, Inc. ("Synopsys," or the "Company") is a leading supplier of
electronic design automation (EDA) solutions to the global electronics industry.
The Company develops, markets, and supports a wide range of integrated circuit
(IC) design, verification and analysis products that are used by designers of
advanced ICs, including system-on-a-chip ICs, and electronic systems. The
Company also provides consulting services to help its customers improve their IC
design processes and, where requested, to assist them with their IC designs. The
Company's products and services offer its customers the opportunity to improve
the productivity of their IC designers and enhance their design quality of
results, thereby lowering IC development and manufacturing costs and reducing
the time to market for new products. Synopsys also provides training and support
services for its customers. Synopsys was incorporated in Delaware in 1987.

ADDRESSING SEMICONDUCTOR CHALLENGES WITH EDA PRODUCTS

        Over the past three decades the semiconductor industry has developed
technology that has dramatically increased the number of transistors that can be
placed on a chip while simultaneously reducing the cost of manufacturing each
chip. In addition to allowing a particular chip to do more than before, each
chip also runs faster. A state-of-the-art IC may have several million
transistors on it, many of which are smaller than one percent of the width of a
human hair, and run at 1 gigahertz, a speed that was unheard of even two years
ago. Increasingly, functions that formerly were performed by multiple ICs
attached to a printed circuit board are being combined in a single chip,
referred to as a system-on-a-chip. The increased capacity of ICs has fostered
the development of computers, communications networks, consumer electronics,
navigation systems, and many other goods and services with tremendous
capabilities at relatively low cost.

        Exploiting this increased capacity presents challenges for the
semiconductor and electronics industries. It takes substantial skill, time and
effort on the part of chip designers to design a highly complex IC, running the
risk that the product design and development cycle for a new product will
lengthen while, at the same time, competition has shortened the life cycle of
the product.

        The rapid pace of semiconductor technology advancement has created both
a "designer productivity gap" and a "silicon performance gap." EDA products play
a critical role in addressing these problems by providing IC designers with
tools and techniques to (a) reduce the time and manual effort required to
design, analyze and verify individual ICs, (b) improve the performance and
density of complex IC designs, and (c) enhance the reliability of the IC design
and manufacturing process.

        The designer productivity gap occurs because chip capability is
increasing faster than the electronics industry is developing and deploying IC
designers with skills required to make use of that capability. "High level" EDA
tools help increase the productivity of designers by allowing them to specify
the desired chip behavior using higher levels of abstraction than transistors,
such as gates and Register-Transfer-Language descriptions, and deriving
automatically the detailed final design from the higher level description. EDA
tools also permit designers to analyze and verify the chip at these higher
levels of abstraction. Additionally, as the electronics industry increasingly
produces system-on-a-chip ICs, the EDA industry is developing tools and
techniques for reusing






existing IC designs and integrating disparate IC blocks onto a single chip, both
of which offer the potential for significant time savings in the design cycle.

        The silicon performance gap occurs because the design effort required to
develop a chip that fully exploits a new semiconductor technology increases as
the size of the transistors shrink. A gap has developed between potential
performance that can be provided by new semiconductor technology and what a
designer can readily take advantage of. As ICs have increased in complexity, the
problems faced by IC designers have changed. An IC designer has always had to
accommodate the effects of certain physical phenomena such as delay, power
consumption, cross-talk, and metal migration into an IC design. At larger
transistor sizes, designers could essentially ignore some phenomena until late
in the design process and use relatively simple approximations to estimate the
effects of others. As transistor size has dropped, these problems became more
acute. To help manage the silicon performance gap, the EDA industry has
developed more accurate physical analysis tools to provide the designer with
insight into a wide range of physical phenomena plaguing IC designs, and to help
them devise design techniques that avoid these obstacles. As system-on-a-chip
designs become more prevalent, the development of these types of tools will grow
more important in closing the silicon performance gap.

SYNOPSYS PRODUCT OVERVIEW

        Synopsys provides products and services that help customers meet the
challenges of producing leading edge ICs and the products that incorporate them.
Synopsys' design tools include an extensive line of logic synthesis and system
design and analysis products that allow an IC designer to describe chip behavior
in a high-level language, convert that description into a gate-level
representation, and analyze the expected performance of the chip at the gate
level. Synopsys' design tools also include tools to facilitate testing of an IC
after the IC is built, as well as design reuse products that help reduce design
time by permitting the straight-forward reuse of previously-proven circuit
"blocks." Synopsys is also actively extending its product line to include
floor-planning, placement, and routing tools.

        Synopsys' verification products are used in several stages of the system
and IC design process to ensure that the resulting IC performs the function that
the IC designer intended. Synopsys' simulation products permit IC designers to
simulate their designs at various levels of abstraction (behavioral, register
transfer, gate-level, and switch logic level) and to explore tradeoffs between
incorporating functionality in hardware or software. In addition, Synopsys is a
leading provider of software and hardware models, which are used to test an IC
design within the context of the system in which the IC will eventually be used.

        Synopsys' EPIC Technology Group offers an extensive line of software
tools to analyze power, timing and reliability concerns in an IC design at the
transistor level. As semiconductor technology advances and IC complexity
increases, transistor-level tools are becoming increasingly important in helping
to close the silicon performance gap.

        Synopsys offers its customers an extensive array of professional
services, which can be tailored to meet their specific needs. These services may
include methodology consulting, aimed at helping a customer improve its design
process; design reuse consulting, which helps a customer modify its inventory of
designs to facilitate their reuse in newer designs; and design assistance, which
helps a customer design, verify or test a discreet portion of a chip or an
entire chip. Synopsys' consulting services also include the provision of
semiconductor libraries for IC vendors and their customers.

        The Company markets its products on a worldwide basis and offers
comprehensive customer service, education, consulting, and support as integral
components of its product offerings. Products primarily are marketed through its
direct sales force. The Company has licensed its products to many of the world's
leading semiconductor, computer, communications and electronics companies.









STRATEGY

        Synopsys' strategy is to develop and offer to its customers the tools
and methodologies required to enable large-scale deep submicron and
system-on-a-chip design. The Company is seeking to develop a balanced portfolio
of products that address both the designer productivity gap and the silicon
performance gap. While continuing to enhance the performance of its current
logic design products, Synopsys intends to enter the market for physical design
tools by introducing design planning and top level routing products, both of
which will be tightly linked with its logic synthesis tools. Synopsys also is
continuing to expand the range and performance of its verification and
transistor-level analysis products, and continuing its development of tools and
techniques for enhancing design reuse. Finally, the Company will expand its
ability to offer consulting services to its customers to assist them in taking
full advantage of advances in semiconductor technology.

MERGER WITH VIEWLOGIC SYSTEMS

        In December 1997, the Company merged with Viewlogic Systems, Inc.
(Viewlogic). Viewlogic's product portfolio included both IC design software and
design and analysis software for printed circuit boards (PCBs) and electronic
systems. After the merger, the IC related business of Viewlogic was fully
integrated into the Synopsys business unit structure, with some products forming
the core of a new business unit and others becoming part of an existing Synopsys
business unit.

        The PCB/Systems business of Viewlogic was operated as a separate
subsidiary for fiscal year 1998. On October 2, 1998, the Company sold the
PCB/Systems business to a group led by the management of that business. A
summary of the transaction terms and a more detailed explanation of the reasons
for the transaction can be found on pages 18 and 19 of the Synopsys 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which has been filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K
report.

        Although these changes took place over the course of the fiscal year,
for clarity the discussion in this section describes the Company's organization
as it existed at the end of the year.

        Synopsys' merger with Viewlogic was accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. Accordingly, the Company's consolidated financial
statements have been restated to include the financial position and results of
Viewlogic for all periods presented. As a result, financial information
presented in this Part I for fiscal years 1997 and 1996 may differ from the
amounts for such years that appeared in the Company's Form 10-K reports for
fiscal years 1997 and 1996.

ORGANIZATION AND PRODUCTS

        Synopsys is currently organized into three tool development groups --
the Design Tools Group, the High-Level Verification Group and the EPIC
Technology Group -- and a services group -- the Professional Services Group.
Synopsys sells its products and services primarily through its direct sales
force, although some products are sold through distributors in limited
geographical areas, and some specific products are sold through OEM
relationships.

DESIGN TOOLS GROUP

        The Design Tools Group (DTG) produces a variety of products focused on
the high-level aspects of designing an IC. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998,
DTG was divided into five business units.

        Synthesis & Design Planning Business Unit

        The Synthesis & Design Planning Business Unit maintains and extends
Synopsys' logic synthesis products. Logic synthesis is key technology that maps
a high-level description of desired chip behavior into a connected collection of
logic gates and other circuit elements that performs the desired behavior.
Design Compiler(TM) is the market-leading logic synthesis tool and is currently
used by a broad range of companies engaged in the design of






ICs to optimize their designs for performance and chip area. Design Compiler was
introduced in 1988 and has been updated regularly since then. In fiscal year
1998, Synopsys released Design Compiler(TM) 98 as the latest generation in the
Design Compiler family. Design Compiler 98 provides customers with an average
13% improvement in circuit timing while running three times faster than previous
versions of Design Compiler. Design Compiler 98 also provides automated
techniques for developing time budgets for the design process -- customers
historically had to spend weeks for each design developing this type of
information manually.

        The Synthesis & Design Planning Business Unit also offers other tools to
provide designers with a comprehensive design environment. RTL Analyzer(TM) lets
IC designers analyze and improve their source code before synthesis and
simulation runs. Power Compiler(TM) allows a designer to optimize their designs
for power consumption. Module Compiler(TM) generates optimized general-purpose
functions for an IC and permits optimization for size, performance and power
consumption.

        The Synthesis & Design Planning Business Unit is also developing better
links between the logic synthesis process and the layout process, by enhancing
its floor-planning management product, and developing various new physical
design tools. As part of this development effort, in November 1998 Synopsys
merged with Everest Design Automation, Inc. which has developed new gridless
high-level routing technology. By mutual agreement, Synopsys and SEMATECH have
ended their relationship that began in fiscal year 1996.

        In February 1996, Synopsys entered into a six-year joint development and
license agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (IBM),
pursuant to which the two companies agreed to develop certain new products.
During fiscal year 1997, the first joint product resulting from the alliance,
PrimeTime(R), was introduced, and the parties agreed to terminate efforts to
develop a product in one of the product areas covered by the Agreement. Synopsys
expects to introduce a second joint product in January 1999. The development of
the fourth product has been suspended. Synopsys and IBM are currently discussing
the future of the alliance. There can be no assurance that joint development
will continue, or that the products developed by the alliance will be
successful.

        Test and Static Verification Business Unit

        The Test and Static Verification Business Unit develops products for
developing test strategies for chips.

        Accurate analysis of timing is critical to ensuring successful chip
design. PrimeTime is a full-chip static timing analysis tool that provides
customers with essential design verification capabilities. PrimeTime ensures
that as a design advances from synthesis (high-level design) to transistor-level
implementation, all timing-critical paths in the chip can be clearly understood
and verified. During fiscal 1998, the Company announced that it would phase out
Motive(TM), timing analysis software offered by Viewlogic, and Motive licensees
were offered incentives to migrate to PrimeTime. In addition, certain features
of Motive have been integrated into PrimeTime.

        In fiscal year 1998, Synopsys introduced a new formal verification
product---Formality(TM). Formality lets IC designers compare a design at
different stages in the design process to determine whether they are
functionally equivalent. Thus, if the original design was functionally correct,
Formality permits the designer to detect errors introduced during implementation
of the design. Historically, such errors have been detected by simulating the
modified design using simulation test patterns validated with the functionally
correct design. This approach is time-consuming. Formality provides an
alternative method for detecting any functional differences without simulating
the design, permitting the detection of errors earlier in the design process.
Formality was designed to be tightly integrated with PrimeTime and Design
Compiler. When used together as part of a new verification methodology, these
tools can reduce the amount of gate-level simulation runs, thus enabling
designers to complete their designs faster and with a higher level of
confidence.

        Synopsys provides software tools to help customers design into their ICs
features that will facilitate the testing of chips after manufacture. After
fabrication, an IC is typically subjected to time-consuming tests using
expensive automatic testers to determine if it is free of manufacturing defects.
Synopsys test synthesis software allows a designer to add circuitry to a design
that will facilitate the post-fabrication testing. Synopsys also provides






software to generate and evaluate test patterns that are ultimately used by the
testers. Synopsys is currently integrating the Sunrise technology from the 1997
Viewlogic merger into the Synopsys test product line.

        System Level Design Business Unit

        The System-Level Design Business Unit offers three principal products:

        COSSAP(R) is a digital signal processing (DSP) design system targeted at
designers of digital communications devices such as cellular telephones. COSSAP
can simulate large, complex, high-level systems that would be hard to model with
standard cycle-based or event-driven simulators, and includes a library of DSP
building blocks.

        Behavioral Compiler(TM) permits designers to create complex circuits in
a high-level shorthand and then helps them explore design tradeoffs and pick the
best architecture, thereby permitting them to work at a higher level of
abstraction than does Design Compiler. In fiscal 1998, Synopsys added behavioral
clock gating capability to Behavioral Compiler. This allows designers to develop
and evaluate low power-consuming designs efficiently. Such low power designs are
particularly important in portable telecommunications systems.

        Protocol Compiler(TM), introduced in fiscal year 1998, facilitates the
design and implementation of protocol control logic - a critical aspect of
asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) and
Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) equipment for networking and
telecommunications applications. Protocol Compiler enables control logic design
at the behavioral level, generating output that is optimized for Synopsys'
flagship Design Compiler tool. By taking protocol control logic design up to the
behavioral level, Protocol Compiler greatly simplifies the process of designing
complex chips targeted at networking applications.

        FPGA Business Unit

        The FPGA Business Unit provides logic synthesis products for
high-density field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable
logic devices (CPLDS). In fiscal year 1998, Synopsys announced new versions of
FPGA Compiler II(TM) and FPGA Express(TM). The new versions provide better
support of the VHDL '93 language, new visual analysis tools, improved circuit
timing, reduced circuit area, and support of fourteen new FPGA device families.

        Design Reuse Business Unit

        In June 1998, Synopsys and Mentor Graphics announced the publication of
the Reuse Methodology Manual. The Reuse Methodology Manual provides designers
with detailed guidelines on planning, specifications, design practices, coding,
testing and documentation for creating reusable intellectual property (IP)
blocks. The manual also provides users of third party design components
descriptions of the deliverables designers should look for in reusable designs.

        The Design Reuse Business Unit offers a wide range of reusable design
modules, tools for creating reusable design blocks and, working through the
Professional Services Group, design reuse consulting services based on the
principles set forth in the Reuse Methodology Manual.

        Synopsys' DesignWare(R) products provide IC designers with libraries of
pre-designed, pre-verified Synopsys synthesizable (i.e., usable by Synopsys'
design tools in optimizing a design), off-the-shelf design modules to
incorporate into their own designs. DesignWare foundation libraries include
commonly used functions. By the end of fiscal year 1998, 130 design modules were
available in DesignWare libraries. DesignWare Macrocells include two commonly
used but complex design components - an 8051 microcontroller block and a PCI 2.1
bus interface block. The reuse of these building blocks represents a significant
shift from traditional IC design, in which designs have been intimately tied to
a particular semiconductor process technology or design methodology and not
easily transferred from one chip design to the next. As IC designs get larger,
the use of reusable design blocks will be an important method for helping to
reduce overall design time.







        DesignWare(R) Developer helps customers develop their own DesignWare
components from which they can build an inventory of designs that can be used by
multiple development teams or in subsequent design cycles.

HIGH-LEVEL VERIFICATION GROUP

        The High-Level Verification Group provides a range of products that
allow IC designers to determine, at different levels of design and at various
stages of the design process, whether an IC will perform as intended.
Verification is becoming increasingly important in the design process, because
as the complexity of chip design increases, the complexity of verification
increases exponentially. A verification bottleneck is developing, with designers
of complex chips spending half or more of their total design time performing
verification. Synopsys verification products are intended to provide an
integrated solution for customers that is accurate, exhaustive and fast.

        Simulation Tools Group

        In the simulation process, simulation software "exercises" an IC design
by running it through a series of tests and comparing the actual outputs from
the design with the expected output. The goal of simulation is to make sure that
the functionality and timing performance of the design meet the original
specifications of the chip. The Simulation Tools Group provides designers with
several products for high-level simulation, including VCS(TM) for designs
written in Verilog, VSS(TM) for designs written in VHDL, and Cyclone(R) for
evaluating designs on a clock-cycle basis. The Company believes that VCS,
acquired in connection with the acquisition of Viewlogic, is the fastest Verilog
simulator on the market. VCS has gained market share in recent years; sales of
VCS grew substantially in fiscal year 1998. VCS is supported by the all of the
major semiconductor manufactures. In fiscal 1998, Synopsys (as part of the
acquisition of Viewlogic) acquired Radiant Design Tools, a private company which
had developed an optimization tool for VCS, which has now been incorporated into
VCS to reduce the simulation time substantially for certain classes of designs.
VSS and Cyclone are optimized for use with Design Compiler and the Company's
other design tools.

        VERA Group

        The VERA Group was formed following Synopsys' acquisition of Systems
Science, Inc. (SSI) in July 1998. The Company estimates that approximately half
of the time spent in the verification phase of IC design is spent designing
testbenches, which are the set of test vectors that are used by simulation tools
in verifying that a chip design functions properly. The VERA Group provides
software that helps generate, manage, and evaluate the data flowing between the
simulator and the IC design. VERA(TM), the principal product of the Group,
automates the design of testbenches, thereby offering the IC designer
significant potential reductions in overall verification time. VERA is being
integrated into the rest of Synopsys' simulation, modeling and hardware/software
co-verification products.

        Large Systems Technology Group

        The Large Systems Technology Group provides high-level models and tools
to facilitate the modeling and verification of complex electronic systems. The
Group manages the Company's hardware and software modeling products as well as
the Eagle hardware/software co-design tools acquired in the Viewlogic merger.

        Since Synopsys' February 1994 merger with Logic Modeling Corporation,
Synopsys has offered a full range of hardware and software modeling solutions.
Synopsys' ModelSource(TM) 3000 series is a family of hardware modeling systems
for ASIC and board level design which provide a flexible means for designers to
model complex devices. ModelSource 3000 systems use the actual integrated
circuit to model its own behavior. Synopsys' SmartModels(R) Libraries offer
models for more than 13,000 commercially available ICs, including a wide range
of microprocessors, controllers, DSPs, FPGAs, CPLDs, peripherals, memories and
standard logic. Synopsys' bus interface models are used to verify that designs
comply with established industry standards. Models are available for most
popular standards. In addition, Synopsys offers modeling technologies to allow
designers to create models





of both standard and proprietary devices. These models support all major EDA
simulation environments and a wide range of EDA platforms, giving designers
access to a broad range of models to assist them with verification of their
designs.

        Success in the modeling business depends, in part, upon making available
a wide range of models and model types. Synopsys continues to focus its modeling
development efforts on enhancing its ability to quickly and efficiently produce
and distribute new models to meet rising verification needs. Synopsys seeks to
maintain close relationships with leading semiconductor vendors to ensure model
accuracy and the earliest possible availability. Synopsys believes that future
design verification methodologies, including those for system-on-a-chip, will
require the availability of accurate, high performance models of complex
components and intellectual property blocks.

        The Large Systems Technology Group's Eagle Design Automation tools help
shorten the development time of embedded systems through hardware/software
(HW/SW) co-development. The term "embedded systems" describes ICs or PCBs that
include a microprocessor or microcontroller. The use of embedded systems is
growing, in part due to the growth of system-on-a-chip designs, which include
logic, memory and at least one processor on the same chip. An important decision
in embedded system design is the allocation of functions between hardware and
software. An estimated 50% of the overall embedded systems design time is spent
in HW/SW design and debug, and prototype debug. As a result, hardware and
software development for embedded systems are becoming more interdependent, and
given the costs of design cycle iterations, there are advantages to consider
hardware and software interaction earlier in the design cycle. By helping IC
designers consider this interaction early in the design cycle, the Company's
Eaglei(TM) product, which is used for full system integration testing, and its
EagleV(TM) product, which is used for verification of embedded processors within
an ASIC, can help reduce the overall costs of embedded system designs.

EPIC TECHNOLOGY GROUP

        Advanced electronics products -- most notably in the consumer
electronics and wireless communications markets -- require chips that operate at
very high speeds, use very little power and last for an extended period of time.
Designers of the complex ICs used in these devices rely heavily on analysis and
verification tools that operate at the transistor level. Since Synopsys'
February 1997 merger with EPIC Design Technology, Inc., Synopsys has offered its
customers a complete line of transistor-level tools -- characterization,
simulation, modeling, analysis, extraction and physical verification -- which
enable designers to address timing, power, and reliability requirements of mixed
signal, high performance and low power ICs.

        Transistor level analysis and verification is important for two
principal reasons. First, speed, power consumption and reliability often require
tradeoffs - for example, fast chips tend to consume more power and produce more
heat (which hurts reliability) than slower chips. It is at the transistor level
that the designer has the last chance to optimize a design for speed, power and
reliability, and the last chance to analyze and correct design flaws that can
result in the failure of a chip to function as intended. Second, as ICs become
more powerful and more complex, the size of the transistors and wires contained
in those ICs shrinks below one quarter micron (250 nanometers), and the total
length of wire connecting the transistors lengthens, in some cases to as much as
one mile. At these dimensions, ICs exhibit unique electrical effects; having the
ability to analyze these effects is central to the success of an advanced IC
design.

        The EPIC Technology Group's principal software tools include:

        TimeMill(R) is a transistor-level simulator and dynamic timing analyzer.
Used interactively in the prelayout phase, TimeMill helps designers optimize the
performance of transistor-level blocks, memories and data paths. TimeMill allows
the designer to quickly explore changes in voltage levels, temperature or
process parameters to improve design quality. After layout, TimeMill detects
problems such as charge sharing and race conditions that are more prevalent in
advanced IC design.

        PowerMill(R) simulates block and full chip current and power behavior,
providing fast and accurate current and power analysis and power diagnostics.
PowerMill offers static and dynamic diagnostics to identify design flaws






that cause unnecessary power consumption. After layout, PowerMill helps
designers confirm that power consumption is acceptable before committing the
design to silicon.

        The Analog Circuit Engine (ACE(TM)) is an analog simulation option
available for TimeMill and PowerMill tools. When used with TimeMill or
PowerMill, ACE provides a high speed, accurate, mixed analog/digital circuit
simulation solution.

        PathMill(R) is a static timing tool that provides a detailed critical
path analysis and static timing verification capability. PathMill provides
accurate and flexible modeling for mixed level static timing analysis.
PathMill's behavioral-, gate- and transistor-level models allow accurate
analysis at each level of the design hierarchy, allowing the user to mix
top-down design and bottom-up implementation.

        Arcadia(R) provides full chip and net-by-net resistance and capacitance
(RC) extraction, and thereby permits designers to focus design analysis effort
on critical paths and spend less time on the segments that do not require
in-depth analysis. Beginning in July 1998, Arcadia offers a distributed
processing capability that enables designers to extract and analyze data from
very large designs in a short amount of time.

        AMPS(R) is the transistor-level tool that simultaneously optimizes
power, delay and area in digital CMOS circuits. AMPS automatically resizes
transistors, making individual transistors larger or smaller to find the
combination that will best meet user-defined power, speed and area goals without
changing the functionality of the design.

        DelayMill(R) enables accurate timing verification at the transistor
level. DelayMill is an advanced delay calculation system for IC, which
calculates layout parasitics and interconnect delay effects, and is especially
useful for IC designers working with multi-million transistor designs in
nanometer silicon.

        RailMill(R) evaluates the reliability of power, clock and signal
networks in a design. Evaluating reliability issues during the design process
helps prevent field failures by accurately locating EM and voltage-drop
violations on full-chip and block-level power networks. RailMill also pinpoints
potential failures on signal nets, performs what-if analysis for proper-pad
placement, and offers recommendations for correct bus widths.

        PowerArc(TM) is a stand-alone cell library power characterization tool
that generates highly accurate gate-level power libraries in the Synopsys
Liberty(TM) library format. Very low power ASIC and cell-based designers seeking
longer battery life, proper package selection and lower system noise levels use
PowerArc.

        PowerGate(TM) is a dynamic gate-level power analysis tool used in an
ASIC or structured custom design flow. It determines peak power consumption,
isolates excessive power dissipation problems, and identifies power-hungry
vectors and instructions.

        The EPIC Technology Group also offers the Direct Silicon Access(TM)
silicon characterization services (DSA), which provides accurate models for
nanometer processes to customers. The DSA methodology correlates expected chip
behavior with measurements performed on actual silicon test circuits, which then
provides a reliable source of data for customers to create accurate technology
files for RC extraction and circuit simulation tools.

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES GROUP

        The Professional Services Group (PSG) provides customized high-level
design support for IC and systems designs. Synopsys consultants are experienced
designers who provide customers with in-depth technical expertise in the use of
Synopsys' design tools, design methodology and Reuse Methodology Manual
principles. Synopsys offers both methodology and project consulting. Methodology
consulting is aimed at increasing customer productivity, promoting the adoption
of the Synopsys' design methodology and reuse principles and solving immediate
needs of customers' design teams. Project consulting involves Synopsys experts
working with customer design teams from design implementation through
simulation, synthesis and tape-out.







        PSG also provides design reuse consulting services. Customers for this
service typically have many IC designs for performing a variety of functions.
Ideally, to decrease the time to get a new product to market, where feasible,
the customer would like to incorporate its existing older designs into the new
product. However, those designs may not currently be in a form that is
well-suited for redeployment. Based on the principles of the Reuse Methodology
Manual, the focus of a typical consulting engagement is to modify the customer's
designs and design techniques and to organize them into easily accessible
electronic libraries, in order to facilitate later reuse.

        The Library Services Group within PSG develops and supports silicon
libraries of logic functions used in developing ICs. The Library Services Group
develops silicon libraries that are optimized to our customer's semiconductor
process. The silicon libraries contain the models that are required by the EDA
design tools in order to design an IC. Since Synopsys' acquisition of Silicon
Architects in May 1995, Synopsys has offered a proprietary gate array IC
architecture, known as Cell-Based Array (CBA(TM)). This includes Macrocell
Libraries which are collections of low level elements that are combined together
to make a complete IC. Synopsys has entered into CBA license agreements with
many of the world's leading ASIC vendors and vertically integrated semiconductor
companies. In addition to licensing semiconductor manufacturers, Synopsys also
licenses a CBA design system to independent design houses and end users in order
to facilitate and increase the number of designs that target CBA technology.
Synopsys has expanded its offering of silicon libraries to include standard
cells and memories. The libraries developed by the Library Services Group within
PSG are optimized to work with the Synopsys EDA tools.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT

        Synopsys devotes substantial resources to providing customers with
technical support, customer education, and consulting services. The Company
believes that a high level of customer service and support is critical to the
adoption and successful utilization of its high-level design automation
methodology.

        As a result of the continued growth of Synopsys' installed base, as well
as customer requests for education, support and consulting services, Synopsys'
service revenue has increased as a percentage of total revenue, representing
40%, 37% and 34% of total revenue in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

TECHNICAL SUPPORT

        Technical support for the Company's products is provided through both
field- and corporate-based technical application engineering groups. Synopsys
provides customers with software updates and a formal problem identification and
resolution process through the Synopsys Technical Support Center. Synopsys'
central entry point of all customer inquiries is SolvNET(SM), a direct-access
service available worldwide, 24 hours per day, through electronic mail and the
World Wide Web that lets customers quickly seek answers to design questions or
more insight into design problems. SolvNET combines Synopsys' complete design
knowledge database with sophisticated information retrieval technology. Updated
daily, it includes documentation, design tips, and answers to user questions.

CUSTOMER EDUCATION SERVICES

        Synopsys offers a number of workshops focused on high-level design,
simulation, behavioral synthesis, logic synthesis, and test. Regularly scheduled
workshops are offered in Mountain View, California; Austin, Texas; Burlington,
Massachusetts; Reading, England; Rungis, France; Munich, Germany; Tokyo and
Osaka, Japan; and Seoul, Korea. On-site workshops are available on a worldwide
basis at customers' facilities. To date, over 24,000 design engineers have been
trained in the use of Synopsys' products through participation in Synopsys
workshops.

PRODUCT WARRANTIES

        Synopsys generally warrants its products to be free from defects in
media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90
days. Synopsys has not experienced significant returns to date.







SUPPORT FOR INDUSTRY STANDARDS

        Synopsys actively supports standards that it believes will help its
customers increase productivity and solve design problems, including support for
key standards that promote system-on-a-chip design and facilitate
interoperability of tools from different vendors.

        Synopsys' products support the two most commonly used hardware
description languages, VHDL and Verilog HDL, and industry standard data formats
for the exchange of data between Synopsys' tools and other EDA products.

        Synopsys is a member of the Virtual Socket Interface Alliance (VSIA), an
industry group formed to promote standards that facilitate the integration and
reuse of functional blocks of intellectual property, and has representatives on
the VSIA's Steering Working Group and several Development Working Groups. A
representative of Synopsys is on the Board of Directors of the standards groups
Open Verilog International, VHDL International, Open Model Forum, and the
steering committee of the Electronics Industry Association/EDIF. Synopsys
participates in standards activities conducted by these and other leading EDA
industry bodies.

        To enhance interoperability, in fiscal 1998, Synopsys launched the
Tap-In program to provide open access to selected interfaces for Synopsys tools.
Synopsys has made its text-based synthesis library format, Liberty, as well as
its timing constraint format, SDC, available to all, including the Company's
competitors, on reasonable terms.

        Synopsys' products are written mainly in the C language and utilize the
Motif and X11 standards for graphical user interfaces. Synopsys' software runs
principally under the UNIX operating system and is offered on the most widely
used workstation platforms, including those from Sun Microsystems,
Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Digital Equipment Corporation and Sony. Many of Synopsys'
products now run on the Windows 95/98 and Windows NT operating systems.

SALES, DISTRIBUTION AND BACKLOG

        Synopsys markets its products and services primarily through its direct
sales and service force in over 30 offices in the United States and principal
international markets. Synopsys employs highly skilled engineers and technically
proficient sales persons capable of serving the sophisticated needs of the
customers' engineering and management staffs.

        For fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996, international sales represented
39%, 41% and 42%, respectively, of Synopsys' total revenue. Additional
information relating to domestic and foreign operations is contained in Note 7
of Notes to Synopsys' Consolidated Financial Statements.

        The Company has 21 sales/support centers throughout the United States.
Internationally, the Company has sales/support offices in Canada, Finland,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the People's
Republic of China, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, including
regional headquarters offices in Germany, Japan and Singapore. On a limited
basis, the Company also utilizes manufacturer's representatives and
distributors. The Company has established such relationships in Australia,
Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore.

        Synopsys' backlog on November 1, 1998 was approximately $241.1 million,
compared to approximately $213.9 million on November 1, 1997. Upon consummation
of Synopsys' merger with Viewlogic, Viewlogic's backlog was added to that of
Synopsys. Viewlogic orders received subsequent to the merger were accepted under
the Synopsys order acceptance policy. No adjustments have been made to the
November 1, 1997 backlog number to account for differences between Viewlogic's
and Synopsys' methods of calculating backlog.






        Backlog consists of orders for system and software products sold under
perpetual and time-based licenses with customer requested ship dates within
three months, orders for customer training and consulting services which are
expected to be completed within one year, and subscription services, maintenance
and support with contract periods extending up to fifteen months.

        The Company has not historically experienced significant cancellations
of orders. Customers frequently reschedule or revise the requested ship dates of
orders, however, which can have the effect of deferring recognition of revenue
for these orders beyond the expected time period.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

        The Company believes that its future performance will depend in large
part on its ability to maintain and enhance its current product lines, develop
new products, maintain technological competitiveness, and meet an expanding
range of customer requirements. In addition to product development teams, the
Company maintains an advanced research group that is responsible for exploring
new directions and applications of its core technologies, migrating new
technologies into the existing product lines, and maintaining strong research
relationships outside the Company within both industry and academia.

        During fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996, research and development
expenses, net of capitalized software development costs, were $154.4 million,
$146.6 million and $120.0 million, respectively. Synopsys capitalized software
development costs of approximately $2.1 million, $4.2 million and $3.7 million
in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Company anticipates that it
will continue to commit substantial resources to research and development in the
future.

MANUFACTURING

        Synopsys' manufacturing operations consist of assembling, testing,
packaging and shipping its system and software products and documentation needed
to fulfill each order. Manufacturing is currently performed in Synopsys'
Mountain View, California and Beaverton, Oregon, facilities. Outside vendors
provide tape and CD-ROM duplication, printing of documentation and manufacturing
of packaging materials. Synopsys employees manufacture and test the hardware
modeling system products, with some sub-assembly performed by outside vendors.
Synopsys typically ships its software products, with either a permanent or
temporary access key, within 10 days of acceptance of customer purchase orders
and execution of software license agreements, unless the customer has requested
otherwise. For its hardware modeling products, Synopsys buys components and
assemblies in anticipation of orders and configures units to match orders,
typically shipping within one to ten weeks of order acceptance, unless the
customer has requested otherwise.

COMPETITION

        The EDA industry is highly competitive. Synopsys competes against other
EDA vendors, and with customers' internally developed design tools and internal
design capabilities, for a share of the overall EDA budgets of the customers.
Synopsys' competitors include companies that offer a broad range of products and
services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (Cadence), Mentor Graphics, Inc.
(Mentor) and Avant! Corporation (Avant!), as well as companies, including
numerous start-up companies, that offer products focused on a discrete phase of
the IC design process. In order to remain successful against such competition,
Synopsys must continue to enhance its current products and bring to market new
products that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers on a
timely and cost-effective basis. Synopsys also will have to expand its ability
to offer consulting services. The failure to enhance existing products, develop
or acquire new products, or to expand Synopsys' ability to offer such services
would have a material adverse effect on Synopsys' business, financial condition
and results of operations.

        Technology advances and customer requirements are causing a change in
the nature of competition among EDA vendors. Increasingly, EDA companies compete
on the basis of "design flows" involving a broad range of






products (including both logic and physical design tools) and services rather
than on the basis of individual "point" tools performing a discrete phase of the
design process. No single EDA company currently offers its customers
industry-leading products in a complete design flow, although the Company and
its principal competitors are taking steps to fill gaps in their respective
design flows.

        Synopsys offers a wide range of logic design tools but currently offers
a relatively limited range of physical design tools. In November 1998, Synopsys
merged with Everest Design Automation, Inc., a private company developing
physical design software. Synopsys will need to develop or acquire additional
physical design tools in order to offer a complete design flow. Synopsys is also
attempting to expand its capacity to offer professional services, but for the
foreseeable future will continue to have less capacity than Cadence to provide
such services.

        The market for physical design tools is dominated by Cadence and Avant!,
both of which are attempting to complete their design flows. Cadence recently
acquired a private company offering synthesis and other logic design products
and certain physical design verification products from Lucent Technologies, both
of which will increase the direct competition between Synopsys and Cadence. In
addition, Cadence's acquisition of logic design products may lead to reductions
in purchases of Synopsys' logic design software by Cadence, which was one of
Synopsys' largest customers in fiscal 1998. Avant! also recently acquired a
private company offering logic synthesis software, which will increase the
direct competition between Synopsys and Avant!.

        To meet competition, Synopsys will continue to enhance its product line
and promote the adoption of new products and methodologies. However, there can
be no assurance that Synopsys will be able to compete successfully against
current and future competitors or that competitive pressure faced by Synopsys
will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results and
financial condition.

PRODUCT SALES AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS

        Synopsys typically licenses its software to customers under
non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and that
restrict use of the software to internal purposes at specified sites. The
Company currently licenses the majority of its software as a network license
that allows a number of individual users to access the software on a defined
network. Software is available under a perpetual license or a time-based
license, usually with a term of one year. License fees are dependent on the type
of license, product mix and number of copies of each product required. On
certain products and services, the Company will collect royalty payments in
addition to license fees.
Synopsys offers its system products for sale or lease.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

        The Company primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent,
trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to
establish and protect proprietary rights in its products. The source code for
Synopsys' products is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished
copyrighted work. However, it may be possible for third parties to develop
similar technology independently, provided they have not violated any
contractual agreements or intellectual property laws. In addition, effective
copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain
foreign countries. Because the EDA industry is characterized by rapid
technological change, the Company believes that factors such as the
technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments,
frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product
maintenance, coupled with the various forms of legal protection that are
available for its technology, provide an effective means for the Company to
establish and maintain a technology leadership position. The Company currently
holds several U.S. and foreign patents on some of the technologies included in
its products and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future.

        Although the Company believes that its products, trademarks and other
proprietary rights do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties,
there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against
the Company in the future or that any such claims will not require the Company
to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly and time-consuming
litigation.







EMPLOYEES

        As of September 30, 1998, Synopsys had a total of 2,592 employees, of
whom 2,040 were based in the United States and 552 were based internationally.
Synopsys' future financial results depend, in part, upon the continued service
of its key technical and senior management personnel and its continuing ability
to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.
Competition for such personnel is intense. Experience at Synopsys is highly
valued in the EDA industry, and the Company's employees are recruited
aggressively by competitors and by start-up companies. The Company's salaries
are competitive in the market, but under certain circumstances, start-up
companies can offer more attractive stock option packages. As a result, the
Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant employee
turnover. There can be no assurance that Synopsys can retain its key managerial
and technical employees or that it can attract, assimilate or retain other
highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. None of
Synopsys' employees is represented by a labor union. Synopsys has not
experienced any work stoppages and considers its relations with its employees to
be good.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

        Synopsys' principal offices are located in four adjacent buildings in
Mountain View, California, which together provide approximately 400,000 square
feet of available space. This space is leased through February 2003. Within one
half mile of these buildings, in Sunnyvale, California, Synopsys occupies
approximately 200,000 square feet of space in two adjacent buildings, which is
under lease through 2007, and approximately 70,000 square feet of space in a
third building, which is under lease until April 2002.

        To meet the Company's foreseeable expansion needs, Synopsys has acquired
seven acres between its Sunnyvale and Mountain View campuses and twenty-four
acres of undeveloped land in San Jose, California. In November 1998, Synopsys
acquired an additional nine acres of undeveloped land in San Jose for $9.5
million.

        The Company leases approximately 67,000 square feet of space in
Beaverton, Oregon for administrative, marketing, research and development and
support activities. This facility is leased through March 2002.

        The Company currently leases 21 other domestic sales offices throughout
the United States, as well as three remote engineering locations. Synopsys
currently leases international sales and service offices in Canada, Finland,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, the People's
Republic of China, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. The
Company also leases a research and development facility in India.

        The Company believes that its existing facilities are adequate for its
current needs and that additional space will be available as needed on
commercially acceptable terms.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        There are no material legal proceedings pending against the Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        No matters were submitted for a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Report.








EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

        The executive officers of the Company and their ages, as of September
30, 1998, are as follows:




        Dr. Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and currently serves as Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Since the inception of
Synopsys in December 1986 he has held a variety of positions including Senior
Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. From 1986
to 1992 Dr. de Geus served as Chairman of the Board. He served as President from
1992 to 1998. Dr. de Geus has served as Chief Executive Officer since January
1994 and has held the additional title of Chairman of the Board since February
1998. He has served as a Director since 1986. From 1982 to 1986, Dr. de Geus was
employed by General Electric Corporation, where he was the Manager of the
Advanced Computer-Aided Engineering Group. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from
the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D.
in electrical engineering from Southern Methodist University.

        Dr. Chi-Foon Chan joined Synopsys as Vice President of Application
Engineering & Services in May 1990. Since April 1997 he has served as Chief
Operating Officer and since February 1998 he has held the additional title of
President. Dr. Chan also became a Director of the Company in February 1998. From
September 1996 to February 1998 he served as Executive Vice President, Office of
the President. From February 1994 until April 1997 he served as Senior Vice
President, Design Tools Group and from October 1996 until April 1997 as Acting
Senior Vice President, Design Reuse Group. Additionally, he has held the titles
of Vice President, Engineering and General Manager, DesignWare Operations and
Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Field Organization. From March 1987 to May 1990,
Dr. Chan was employed by NEC Electronics, where his last position was General
Manager, Microprocessor Division. From 1977 to 1987, Dr. Chan held a number of
senior engineering positions at Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds an M.S. and
Ph.D. in computer engineering from Case Western Reserve University.

        Dr. William W. Lattin is an Executive Vice President of Synopsys and has
been a Director of Synopsys since July 1995. Dr. Lattin joined Synopsys in
February 1994 in connection with Synopsys' merger with Logic Modeling
Corporation (LMC). He has served as Executive Vice President since July 1995.
From October 1994 to July 1995 he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate
Marketing, and from February 1994 until October 1994 as Senior Vice President,
Logic Modeling Group. From December 1992 to February 1994, Dr. Lattin served as
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of LMC, and from May 1992 to
December 1992 he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
LMC. From 1986 to 1992, Dr. Lattin served as Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Logic Automation Inc., a predecessor of
LMC. Dr. Lattin holds a B.S.E.E. and an M.S.E.E. from the University of
California at Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Arizona State
University. Dr. Lattin is a Director of RadiSys Corporation, a supplier of
embedded computers, as well as a Director of Easy Street Online Services, an
internet service provider and a Trustee of the Oregon Graduate Institute.






        David P. Burow joined Synopsys in connection with the Company's merger
with Viewlogic in December 1997 and currently serves as Senior Vice President,
High Level Verification Group. He served as Sr. Vice President, Simulation Tools
Group from December 1997 to August 1998. Mr. Burow had served as Vice President
of Viewlogic's ASIC Group since October 1996. He joined Viewlogic in August 1995
as Vice President of the High Level Design Group after serving in a number of
key management positions from October 1991 through August 1995 at Silicon
Architects, which was acquired by Synopsys in May 1995. Preceding Silicon
Architects, Mr. Burow held other management positions within the EDA and
semiconductor industries, including President of CrossCheck, a test company;
General Manager of the Analog division at Dazix; and President of Simucad, Inc.,
a simulation company. Mr. Burow holds a B.S. in Engineering from Purdue
University and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.

        Dr. Raul Camposano joined Synopsys in January 1994 and currently serves
as Senior Vice President, General Manager of the Design Tools Group and Chief
Technical Officer. From January 1997 to December 1997 he served as Senior Vice
President and General Manager, Design Tools Group. From May 1996 until January
1997 he served as Vice President, Engineering, Design Tools Group. From January
1996 until May 1996 he served as General Manager and Senior Director, Design
Planning Group, and from January 1994 until January 1996 as Director of
Engineering, Design Environment Group. Prior to joining Synopsys, Dr. Camposano
concurrently served as the Design Technology Director for the German National
Research Center for Computer Science and as Professor of Computer Science at the
University of Paderborn, Germany. Between 1986 and 1991, Dr. Camposano led the
project on high-level synthesis at the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center. Active
in the EDA professional community, he also serves on various technical program
committees and editorial boards worldwide and has published over 70 articles and
three books on electronic design automation. Dr. Camposano holds a B.S.E.E. from
the University of Chile, and a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of
Karlsruhe.

        Ernst W. Hirt joined Synopsys in November 1997 and serves as Senior Vice
President, Human Resources and Facilities. Mr. Hirt was Vice President of Human
Resources at VLSI Technology, Inc. from March 1984 until he joined Synopsys. He
has also worked in high level Human Resources positions at Intel, Siemens,
Honeywell and General Electric. Mr. Hirt holds a Masters Degree in Economics
from the University of Cincinnati.

        Gary A. Larsen, Senior Vice President and General Manager, EPIC
Technology Group, joined Synopsys nearly two years ago when EPIC Design
Technology (EPIC) merged with Synopsys. Prior to his current position, from July
1997 to March 1998, he was the Senior Vice President and Co-General Manager of
the EPIC Technology Group. From February 1997, the time of the Synopsys/EPIC
merger, to July 1997, he was Vice President, Marketing of the EPIC Technology
Group. From August 1994 to February 1997, Mr. Larsen held the position of Vice
President, Worldwide Sales of EPIC. Prior to that he was Vice President of the
ASIC Solutions Group at Cadence where he held a variety of managerial positions
from 1984 to 1994. Mr. Larsen holds a B.A. in Economics from Stanford
University.

        Paul Lippe joined Synopsys in October 1992 and currently serves as
Senior Vice President, Business and Market Development (since May 1997) and as
Corporate Secretary (since 1992). From November 1996 until May 1997 he served as
Senior Vice President, Business Development and Legal, and from January 1995
until November 1996 as Vice President, Business Development and Legal. Prior to
1992, Mr. Lippe was employed by Solbourne Computer as Vice President, Corporate
Development, General Counsel and Secretary, and also served as Chairman of the
Colorado Air Quality Control Commission. Mr. Lippe holds a B.A. from Yale
College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.

        Dr. Edward Ross joined Synopsys in July 1998 as Senior Vice President
and General Manager of the Professional Services Group. Prior to joining
Synopsys, Dr. Ross served as President of Technology and Manufacturing at Cirrus
Logic since 1995, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Power
Integrations, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Dr. Ross holds a B.S. in electrical
engineering from Drexel University and an M.S., M.A., and Ph.D., also in
electrical engineering, from Princeton University.






        Robert Russo joined Synopsys in April 1993 and currently serves as
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services. From June 1997 to April
1998 he served as Senior Vice President, Sales and Services for the Americas and
Europe. From April 1993 until June 1997 Mr. Russo served as Vice President,
North America Sales. Prior to joining Synopsys Mr. Russo held senior-level
management positions in sales and marketing with Cray Research, Stardent
Computers and Votan. Mr. Russo holds degrees in mechanical and aeronautical
engineering from New York Institute of Technology.

        Faysal Sohail serves as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic
Planning. He previously served as Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Design Architects Group from January 1997 to September 1998. From June 1996 to
January 1997 he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Design Reuse
Group. Mr. Sohail is one of the founders of Silicon Architects, acquired by
Synopsys in 1995. Prior to the acquisition, he was Director of Marketing for
Silicon Architects. Prior to founding Silicon Architects, Mr. Sohail held
various managerial positions in development and marketing at Actel from 1986 to
1990 and LSI Logic from 1985 to 1986. Mr. Sohail holds a B.S. in computer
engineering from the University of Illinois.

        David Sugishita joined Synopsys in June 1997 and currently serves as
Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer. From
1995 to 1997 he served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration
and Chief Financial Officer for Actel, and from 1994 to 1995 Mr. Sugishita was
Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer for Micro Component Technology. From 1991 to 1994, he was Vice
President and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for Applied
Materials. From 1982 to 1991 he served as Vice President of Finance,
Semiconductor Group for National Semiconductor. He holds a B.S. in finance from
San Jose State University and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University. Mr.
Sugishita currently serves as a Director for Micro Component Technology, as well
as being active in the community by serving on two school boards.

        There are no family relationships among any executive officers of the
Company.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        The information required by this item is set forth on page 46 of the
Synopsys 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Information required by Item 201 of Regulation S-K is set forth on page
1 of the Synopsys 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

        In November 1998, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Everest Design Automation, Inc. (Everest), pursuant to a merger of a newly
formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company with and into Everest in exchange
for 1.4 million shares of the Company's common stock and the assumption of
options to purchase (after conversion) 100,000 shares of the Company's common
stock. Such shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 as
amended (the 1933 Act) in reliance upon the exemptions provided by Section 4(2)
of the 1933 Act and/or Regulation D promulgated thereunder as a transaction by
an issuer not involving a public offering.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

        The information required by this item is set forth on pages 14 through
25 of the Synopsys 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.







ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK.

        Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth in Synopsys' 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders under
the captions "Interest Rate Risk" and "Foreign Currency Risk" in Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and
"Foreign Exchange Hedging" in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The consolidated financial statements required by this item are included
on pages 27 through 46 of the Synopsys 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and
are incorporated herein by reference. With the exception of the aforementioned
information and the information incorporated in Items 5, 6 and 7, the Synopsys
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. The report of Synopsys' Independent Auditors on
Synopsys' consolidated financial statements is included on page 26 of the
Synopsys 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by
reference. The report of Synopsys' Independent Auditors on the consolidated
financial statement schedule required by this item is included in Exhibit 23
hereto.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information with respect to Directors is included under the caption
"Proposal One --Election of Directors" in Synopsys' Notice of Annual Meeting and
Proxy Statement for Synopsys' annual meeting of stockholders to be held on March
1, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement") and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information with respect to Executive Officers is included under the heading
"Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I hereof after Item 4.

        Information regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is included under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" under the caption "Additional Information" in the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The information required by this item is included under the heading
"Executive Compensation" under the caption "Proposal One -- Election of
Directors" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

        The information required by this item is included under the heading
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" under the
caption "Proposal One --Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The information required by this item is included under the caption
"Proposal One --Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:







1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The following documents are included in the Synopsys 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders and incorporated by reference in Item 8:





2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

        The following schedule of the Company is included herein:

        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves (Schedule II)

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the amounts
are immaterial or the required information is presented in the consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.

The following documents are included in Exhibit 23 hereto:

Exhibit 23.1   Report on Financial Statement Schedule of Synopsys, Inc.
Exhibit 23.2   Report of Deloitte and Touche LLP, Independent Auditors
Exhibit 23.3   Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Independent Auditors
Exhibit 23.4   Consent of Deloitte and Touche LLP, Independent Auditors

3. EXHIBITS

        See Item 14(c) below. The following compensatory plans are required to
be filed as exhibits. Certain of such plans have been incorporated by reference
from prior filings, as indicated under Item 14(c):

Exhibit 99.1 --  1992 Stock Option Plan as restated and amended
Exhibit 99.2 --  Employee Stock Purchase Program, as restated and amended
Exhibit 99.3 --  International Employee Stock Purchase Program, as restated and 
                 amended
Exhibit 99.4 --  Synopsys deferred compensation plan dated September 30, 1996
Exhibit 99.5 --  1994 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, as restated and
                 amended
Exhibit 99.6 --  Form of Executive Employment Agreement dated October 1, 1997
Exhibit 99.7 --  Schedule of Executive Employment Agreements
Exhibit 99.8 --  1998 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

        Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 16, 1998 for the purpose of filing
the Company's press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and
fiscal year ended September 30, 1998, including condensed consolidated
statements of income and balance sheets.






(c) Exhibits









- ---------------

(1) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45138) which became
effective February 24, 1992

(2) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1992

(3) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1993

(4) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1995

(5) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 1995

(6) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1996

(7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
S-8, filed on May 3, 1996

(8) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (File No. 333-21129) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997

(9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-19807) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 1997

(10) Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the form of prospectus contained in
the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-39713) of Synopsys, Inc. as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 1997

(11) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29(a) in the Company's quarterly
report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-19807) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 13, 1998

(12) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29(a) in the Company's quarterly
report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-19807) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 13, 1998

(13) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit with the same number filed with the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1997 (File no. 000-198007)

(14) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 in the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-50947) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on April 24, 1998




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                              SYNOPSYS, INC.


                              By /s/ AART J. DE GEUS
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 Aart J. de Geus
                                 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
                                 of the Board of Directors
                                 (Principal Executive Officer)


                              By /s/ DAVID SUGISHITA
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 David Sugishita
                                 Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations,
                                 and Chief Financial Officer
                                 (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)



Date: December 23, 1998




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

        KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Aart J. de Geus and David Sugishita, and
each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments (including
post-effective amendments) to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith,
as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:







                                   SCHEDULE II

                                 SYNOPSYS, INC.
                              --------------------

                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (in thousands)
















- --------------------

(1) Includes $830 and $1,576 charged to other income in fiscal 1997 and 1996,
    respectively.

(2) Fiscal 1998 includes a $2,049 reduction due to the sale of Viewlogic
    Systems, Inc. Other amounts are translation and other adjustments.

(3) Accounts written off, net of recoveries.













- ---------------

(1) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-45138) which became
effective February 24, 1992

(2) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1992

(3) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1993

(4) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1995

(5) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 1995

(6) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit of the same number filed with the
Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 1996

(7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
S-8, filed on May 3, 1996

(8) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit to the Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (File No. 333-21129) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997

(9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-19807) of Synopsys, Inc. as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 1997

(10) Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the form of prospectus contained in
the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-39713) of Synopsys, Inc. as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 1997

(11) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29(a) in the Company's quarterly
report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-19807) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 13, 1998

(12) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29(a) in the Company's quarterly
report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-19807) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 13, 1998

(13) Incorporated by reference to an exhibit with the same number filed with the
Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1997 (File no. 000-198007)

(14) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 in the Company's Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-50947) as filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on April 24, 1998

