
10-K


                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, D.C.  20549
                               FORM 10-K

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 31, 1995
                                   
Commission file number 0-4769

                      DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION

        (Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

     KENTUCKY                                61-0502302
     (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)               Identification
Number)

                        104 Woodmont Boulevard
                               Suite 500
                      Nashville, Tennessee 37205
          (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (615) 783-

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                   Name of Exchange on
          Title of Class           which Registered
          Common Stock             New York Stock Exchange
     
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No    

     Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  ]

     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant as of April 14, 1995 is $1,730,024,868
based upon the last reported sale price on such date by the New
York Stock Exchange.  

     The number of shares of common stock outstanding on April 14,
1995, was 67,365,900.

                  Documents Incorporated by Reference

Document                      Where Incorporated in Form of 10-K
Portions of the Registrant's  Page III
 Proxy Statement Relating to
 the Annual Meeting of
 Stockholders to be Held
 on June 5, 1995.


                      PART I
                   
Item 1.   Business

General

The following text contains references to years 1996, 1995, 1994
and 1993 which represent fiscal years ended January 31, 1996,
January 31, 1995, January 31, 1994 and January 31, 1993, respectively.

Dollar General Corporation (the "Company") was organized in 1939 as
J. L. Turner and Son, Inc. under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.  In 1968, the Company changed its name to Dollar General
Corporation.  Today, the Company seeks profitable growth by
providing value in hardlines and softlines merchandise to low-,
middle- and fixed-income families.  The Company sells this general
merchandise at retail through a chain of 2,059 small Company-owned
stores(as of January 31, 1995) in 24 states.  The Company-owned
stores, located predominantly in small towns in the midwestern and
southeastern United States, operate under the name "Dollar General
Stores."

The Company's mission is "SERVING OTHERS!  Serving Our
Customers...with greatest everyday value.  Serving Our
Shareholders...with superior return on investment.  Serving Our
Employees...as partners in total development."  In order to carry
out its mission, the Company has developed a strategy which
includes the following principal elements:

               LOW-, MIDDLE- AND FIXED-INCOME CUSTOMERS.  The
          Company seeks to serve the basic merchandise needs of
          low-, middle- and fixed-income consumers.

               EVERYDAY LOW PRICES.  The Company's strategy is to
          offer quality merchandise at everyday low prices.  The
          Company emphasizes even-dollar price points and believes
          its prices are generally below those of its competitors. 
          The majority of products in Dollar General Stores are
          priced at $10 or less, with the most expensive item
          generally priced at $35.

               FOCUSED ASSORTMENT OF MERCHANDISE.  The Company is
          committed to offering a focused assortment of quality,
          basic merchandise in a number of core categories. The
          Company offers hardlines, including health and beauty
          aids, cleaning supplies, housewares, stationery and
          seasonal goods.  The Company also markets the basics in
          softlines, including apparel for the family, shoes and
          domestics.  The Company strives at all times to be "in
          stock" in basic merchandise in its core categories.

               LOW OPERATING COSTS.  The Company maintains strict
          overhead cost controls and seeks to locate stores in
          neighborhoods where store rental and operating costs are
          low.

The Company's business is seasonal in nature.  Due to the holiday
season, the fourth quarter usually reflects significantly higher
net sales and net income than other quarters.  The first quarter is
usually the least profitable due largely to the traditionally slow
after-Christmas sales period.


Merchandise

The merchandise sales mix of the Company has shifted incrementally
to hardlines sales by 2% over the past three years.  The increase
in hardlines' sales has occurred in part because of a determined
commitment to keep hardlines in stock, an increased emphasis on
private label ("DG Signature") products, and an expanded selection
of brand-name merchandise.  The following table shows an
approximate percentage of 1995, 1994, and 1993 Dollar General Store
sales by product category.


Dollar General Stores offer quality, basic merchandise at everyday
low prices.  The Company believes that its merchandising strategy
generates frequent repeat customer traffic.  The Company is able to
offer everyday low prices to its customers in large part because
its buying staff negotiates low purchase prices.  The Company
purchases its merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers, with no
supplier accounting for more than 2.0% of the Company's purchases
during 1995.

The Company buys principally quality first-run hardlines and
softlines and supplements its inventory with manufacturers'
overruns, closeouts and irregulars which sell at a discount from
regular retail prices.  These three types of merchandise are
purchased by the Company from manufacturers on a regular basis. 
During 1995, approximately 5% of the Company's purchases of
softlines were manufacturers' overruns, closeouts or irregular
merchandise.  In addition, approximately 8% of the Company's
hardlines purchases were closeout merchandise.  Approximately 20%
of the Company's softlines merchandise and 40% of the hardlines
merchandise in 1995 versus 25% and 45% in 1994, respectively
consisted of brand-name merchandise.  Although the total percentage
of brand-name merchandise is down from 1994, the Company has
expanded the selection of such merchandise in order to offer the
customer a broader assortment of brand-named goods.  Because the
Company offers quality, basic merchandise, it believes its risk of
inventory obsolescence is low.  The Company reviews its inventory
to identify aged merchandise and sells it at marked-down prices to
remove it from inventory.

The Company's policy is to provide everyday low prices.  The
Company emphasizes even-dollar pricing of its merchandise, most of
which is priced at $1 and in increments of $1, with the most
expensive item generally priced at $35.  The Company believes even-
dollar pricing more easily demonstrates value to the customer.  In
addition, the Company believes even-dollar pricing disciplines its
buyers to continually negotiate purchase prices that conform to a
limited number of retail price points. 

The Company's stores regularly receive merchandise shipments from
Company distribution centers in Scottsville, Kentucky; Homerville,
Georgia; and Ardmore, Oklahoma and limited shipments directly from
suppliers.

The Dollar General Store

The typical Dollar General Store has approximately 6,200 square
feet of selling space and is operated by a manager, an assistant
manager and two or more sales clerks.  In  1995, the Company
benefited from average fixed rental costs of $3.03 per average
square foot of selling space.  Approximately 78% of the Dollar
General Stores are situated in communities with populations of
25,000 or less.  As of January 31, 1995, 1,341 stores were located
in strip shopping centers, 399 were in downtown store buildings,
and 319 were freestanding.  Store sites have

been relatively easy to find, and the Company does not anticipate
difficulty in finding suitable locations in the future.  The
Company's policy is to negotiate low-cost, short-term leases,
usually three years, with multiple renewal options when available. 
These leases allow closing of unsatisfactory locations at minimal
cost to the Company.

The Company opened 259 net new stores in 1995, and expects to open
a net of 280 to 300 stores in 1996.  The Company's store growth is
summarized by the following table:



In addition to opening new Dollar General Stores, the Company's
management is continually working to improve the performance of the
existing stores.  The Company continually reviews and modifies when
necessary its internal accounting and auditing measures to control
inventory levels and to reduce inventory shrinkage.  The retail
shrinkage-to-sales ratio for 1995 was 2.6%, compared with 2.7% for
1994 and 2.4% in 1993.  The Company's management continues to seek
methods to reduce inventory shrink further.  As a part of this
effort, the Company expanded in 1995 its incentive compensation
program to included all store personnel.  The payment of incentive
compensation is based, in part, on inventory shrinkage results.

Same-store sales (i.e., those stores that were opened before the
beginning of the prior fiscal year and that have remained opened
throughout both the prior and current fiscal years) showed a 13.5%
increase in 1995, a 12.7% increase in 1994, and a 15.5% increase in
1993.  The average Dollar General "same-store" generated annual
sales of $754,000 in 1995, as compared to $663,000 in 1994.  In
addition, at January 31, 1995, the Company served as wholesaler for
11 retail stores operating under the Dollar General name but owned
by others.  Revenues from sales to these retail stores amounted to
less than 0.25% of the Company's gross revenue in 1995.

Employees

At January 31, 1995, the Company and its subsidiaries employed
approximately 18,000 full and part time employees including
regional managers, district managers, store managers, clerks, and
distribution center and office personnel compared to approximately
17,300 at January 31, 1994.  None of the Company's employees are
represented by a union.

Competition

The business in which the Company is engaged is highly competitive. 
The Company competes with discount stores which also sell
popularly-priced merchandise and with all types of retailers,
including department stores, variety stores, mail order chains and
specialty stores.  Some of the largest retail merchandising
companies in the nation have stores in some of the areas where the
Company operates.  Management believes that it competes primarily
by offering quality, basic merchandise at a consistently low
everyday cash price.  Dollar General Stores operate on a cash basis
and do not accept credit sales.

Executive Officers of the Company

The names, ages and positions with the Company of its executive
officers as of April 1, 1995, are as follows:



All executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Directors.  Messrs. Turner, Carpenter, Ennis, and Stelmach
have been employed by the Company as executive officers for more
than the past five years.  The following is a brief summary of the
business experience of the executive officers:
      
Mr. Turner joined the Company in 1965 and was elected President and
Chief Executive Officer in 1977.  Mr. Turner has served as Chairman
of the Board since January, 1989.

Mr. Carpenter joined the Company in 1981 as Vice President--
Administration and General Counsel.  From 1987 to 1993, Mr.
Carpenter served as Vice President--Administration, Chief Counsel
and Corporate Secretary.  Mr. Carpenter was named Chief
Administrative Officer in 1993.

Mr. Carter joined the company as Vice President--Development in
October 1994.  Prior to that he held several senior management
positions at Fred's Inc. including Executive Vice President from
1993 to 1994, Senior Vice President of Operations from 1989 to
1992, and Senior Vice President of Administration and Distribution
from 1987 to 1989.  


Mr. Ennis joined the Company as Vice President--Merchandising in
February 1988 and was named Vice President Merchandising Operations
in 1993.  From April 1986 to February 1988, Mr. Ennis served as
Regional Merchandise Manager for McCrory/T. G. & Y. and as Regional
Vice President, from June 1985 to April 1986.  

Mr. Fellers became Vice President--Distribution in March 1991.  He
joined the Company in September 1989 as Director of Distribution. 
From 1986 to September 1989, Mr. Fellers was Facility Manager of a
major distribution complex of McCrory Stores in Clinton, South
Carolina.  

Mr. Garner joined the Company in his current capacity--Chief
Financial Officer--in December, 1992.  Prior to joining the
Company, he served as Treasurer of Vulcan Materials Company from
August, 1982 to November, 1992. 

Mr. Hartshorn joined the Company as Vice President--Operations in
January 1992 and was named Vice President Merchandising Operations
in 1993.  Prior to that he was Director--Store Operations for
McCrory Stores/T. G. & Y.  During his career with McCrory/T. G. &
Y., he held positions in store management, as well as district and
regional field management.  He served with McCrory/T. G. & Y. from
1967 until joining the Company in 1992.

Mr. Humphrys became Vice President--Operations Support effective
March 1993.  Prior to that he was Vice President--Merchandise
Development from March 1992.  He has worked for the Company since
1971 and has held a variety of positions in
merchandising.       

Mr. Jensen joined the Company in his current capacity--Vice
President Management Information Services--in April, 1994.  Prior
to joining the Company, he served as Vice President of Management
Information Systems for OW Office Warehouse, Inc., from 1991 until
1994.  Prior to that he was Director of MIS for K's Merchandise
Mart from 1990 to 1991, a Management Consultant for Retail
Management Consulting from 1987 to 1990, and Consultant and Vice
President of MIS for Wickes Companies, Inc. from 1985 to 1987. 

Mr. Northcutt was named Vice President--Merchandising Operations in
1994.  From February 1992  to 1994 he served as Vice President--
Human Resources.  He joined the Company in May, 1988 as Director of
Training and was subsequently promoted to Director of Human
Resources.

Mr. Stelmach joined the Company in June 1989 as Vice President
Merchandising/Operations and was named Executive Vice President,
Operations in 1993.  Prior to that he was President and Chief
Operating Officer of Fred's Stores/Baddour, Inc. where he held
various senior management positions since 1986.  


Item 2. Properties

As of January 31, 1995, the Company operated 2,059 retail stores
located in states as follows:



Virtually all of the Company's stores are on leased premises.  The
individual store leases vary as to their respective terms, rental
provisions and expiration dates.  In 1995, the Company's store
rental expense was $43,709,000, or $3.75 per average square foot of
selling space.  Leases for 1,482 locations contain options to renew
for additional terms ranging from one to five years.  It is the
Company's policy to negotiate short-term leases so that it can
adjust quickly to shifts in population and business centers. 

The Company owns a distribution complex and administrative offices
in Scottsville, Kentucky.  The Company's total warehouse area in
Scottsville, Kentucky is approximately 590,000 square feet.  The
Company owns distribution centers in Homerville, Georgia and
Ardmore, Oklahoma.  The Ardmore facility began operation in January
1995.  The Homerville and Ardmore facilities measure approximately
500,000 and 510,000 square feet, respectively.

The Company also maintains executive offices of approximately
21,000 square feet of leased space in Nashville, Tennessee.  The
Company's five-year lease runs to September 1996, and has a five-
year renewal option.

Item 3.      Legal Proceedings

There are no material pending legal proceedings to which the
Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or to which any of
its property is subject.

Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to shareholders during the fourth quarter
ended January 31, 1995.

                                PART II

Item 5.      Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
             Security Holder Matters                 
 
The range of the high and low closing prices of the Company's
common stock for each quarter during the two most recent fiscal
years, as reported on the Nasdaq National Market System, is shown
in the table below.  Prices have been restated to reflect a five-
for-four common stock split distributed March 6, 1995, rounded to
the nearest one-eighth.  On February 1, 1995, the Company's common
stock was listed and began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol "DG."  



The approximate number of stockholders of record of the Company's
common stock as of April 14, 1995 was 3,200.  Under the Company's
credit facilities, the Company is limited from paying dividends per
annum in excess of 50% of its reported net income.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
         FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY (Dollars in thousands except per
         share amounts and operating data)

(a)  Based on common and common equivalent shares before adjustment
for March 6, 1995 five-for-four common stock split.
(b)  Based on common and common equivalent shares as adjusted to
give retroactive effect to the March 6, 1995 five-for-four common
     stock split.                               
(c)  As adjusted to give retroactive effect to the March 6, 1995
five-for-four common stock split.


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial      
Condition and Results of Operations

The following text contains references to years 1996, 1995, 1994
and 1993 which represent fiscal years ending or ended January 31,
1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

General

During 1995, Dollar General achieved its fourth consecutive year of
double digit same-store sales growth, record sales and record net
income.  This record performance is principally the result of
customers' favorable response to better merchandise selection and
to the Company's commitment to everyday low pricing; accelerated
new-store development; aggressive overhead cost control; and
increased use of cost-effective information technology.  In 1995,
the Company reinforced its accelerated growth plan by increasing
the rate of store expansion, constructing a third distribution
center and continuing to introduce appropriate information
technology, all without a significant increase in the Company's
debt position.

The Company increased in 1995 the rate of its store expansion to
its highest level ever, ending the year with 2,059 stores.  The
Company opened 302 new stores in 1995 compared with 251 new stores
in 1994.  The 1995 new stores added 2,051,000 square feet to the
Company's total sales space, an increase of 19% over 1994's year-
end total sales space.  Average annual square footage increased
18.7% to 12,726,000 square feet. In 1995, new and closed stores
averaged 6,600 and 5,800 square feet per store, respectively,
compared with 1994's total chain average of 6,000 square feet per
store.  The five states in which the greatest number of new Dollar
General Stores were opened in 1995 were Texas (86) North Carolina
(21), Ohio (21), South Carolina (17) and Alabama (15).  In 1996,
the Company expects to open approximately 330-350 stores and close
approximately 50 stores with Texas again anticipated to be the
state with the most new store openings.  In 1995, the Company also
remodeled or relocated 297 stores compared with 277 in 1994. 
During the last three years, the Company has opened, remodeled or
relocated 1,489 stores.

In the first quarter of 1995, the Company began building its third
distribution center.  The initial size of this facility, which is
located in Ardmore, Oklahoma, totals 510,000 square feet.  The
existing site work, however, will support the expansion of the
facility to a total of 1,050,000 square feet.  The distribution
center includes radio frequency merchandise locating equipment to
accelerate inventory storage and retrieval.  The distribution
center's carton sortation system is capable of sorting 12,000
cartons per hour.  The initial configuration of the Ardmore
distribution center can serve approximately 1,000 stores.  Based on
current average-store sales volume and relevant distribution
parameters, this new distribution center, when expanded to
1,050,000 square feet, could serve approximately 1,900 stores.  The
first phase of the distribution center was nearing completion at
the end of the fourth quarter of 1995 at a cost of $23.3 million
including $1.6 million for a new warehouse management system.  The
Ardmore distribution center is expected to be in full operation
serving 750 stores by the middle of the second quarter of 1996. 
The addition of this third distribution center should substantially
eliminate the distribution inefficiencies encountered during the
fourth quarter of 1995 when the Company utilized three warehouses
operated by third parties.  The complexities associated with
coordinating the third-party warehouses with the Company's
distribution centers during the Company's highest-volume quarter
resulted in inefficient merchandise distribution, higher than
expected distribution labor and freight costs and, in management's
opinion, lost sales.

During the first half of 1995, the Company equipped every store
with Symbol hand-held bar code scanners to enable store personnel
to more quickly and accurately receive and order merchandise and to
report store payroll data.  This technological improvement in store
operations together with the introduction in 1994 of Omron
electronic cash registers has enhanced productivity.  This enhanced
productivity during the last half of 1995 contributed in part to
the reduction of the Company's overhead-to-sales ratio to 20.7% in
1995 from 21.7% in 1994.  The scanners' electronic transmission of
merchandise orders will permit more frequent deliveries in the
future.


Consistent with its everyday low pricing strategy, the Company
eliminated its newspaper, radio and television advertising in 1995. 
As in 1994, the Company distributed four solo direct-mail circulars
on or about the first of April, August, November and December. 
Three circulars will be distributed in 1996 on or about the first
of May, August and December.  Management believes that the
elimination of an advertising circular results in only a temporary
reduction in same-store sales growth.  The savings from not
printing and distributing the fourth circular will be partially
offset by higher postage rates and higher newsprint costs.

On August 22, 1994, the Company exchanged 1,715,742 shares of
Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock for the 8,578,710
shares of Dollar General common stock owned by CTS, Inc., a
personal holding company controlled by members of the Turner
family, the founders of Dollar General.  The Series A Convertible
Junior Preferred Stock was authorized by the Board of Directors out
of the authorized but unissued preferred stock approved by the
Company's stockholders in 1992.  The exchange, negotiated and
recommended by a special committee of the Company's Board of
Directors, came in response to a request from CTS, Inc. to consider
a transaction to meet estate planning needs of the Turner family. 
The Series A convertible Junior Preferred Stock is (i)convertible
into common stock pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Restated Articles of Incorporation and (ii) is voted with the
common stock on all matters presented to the holders of common
stock.  The Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock is not
convertible at the option of the holder until August 22, 1996;
however, under certain circumstances the preferred stock may be
converted into common stock prior to such date.  In the three years
following August 22, 1996, the conversion ratio increases from 90%
of the initial exchange ratio of five (5) shares of common stock
for each share of Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock
converted (adjusted for all intervening stock splits or
adjustments) to 100% of the initial exchange ratio (as adjusted). 
Additionally, the Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock is
not transferrable by the holders thereof. Management believes that
the stockholders benefit from the resulting stabilization of this
large block of common shares and from the reduced cash dividend,
which is non-cumulative, paid to the preferred stockholders.  

On February 1, 1995, the Company's common stock was listed and
began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DG." 
Previously, the Company's common stock was traded on the Nasdaq
National Market System.  Management believes that the New York
Stock Exchange will offer the Company's shareholders greater
trading liquidity, potentially lower price volatility and reduced
transaction costs.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth certain items in the consolidated
statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net sales for
the periods indicated.




Net Sales - Net sales for 1995 totaled $1,448.6 million, an
increase of 27.9%, or $315.6 million more than the 1994 level of
$1,133.0 million.  The increase was the result of sales from 259
net new stores opened during the year and same-store sales
increasing 13.5%.  The Company defines same stores as those stores
that were opened before the beginning of the prior fiscal year and
that have remained open throughout both the prior and current
fiscal years.  Management believes the same-store sales increase is
primarily the result of improved store operation and merchandise
presentation, better basic merchandise in-stock positions in the
stores, a program of price point consolidation that involved
selective markdowns and key product price reductions.  These
product price reductions were made primarily in apparel goods.

The sales mix during 1995 again shifted slightly in favor of
hardlines which comprised 65.6% of sales compared with 64.7% in
1994.  Despite hardlines percentage of sales increasing in 1995,
the Company has no target sales mix.  However, the softlines price
reductions, planned new store layout changes, improved item
selection and continued focus on basic apparel may maintain or
possibly increase the proportion of softlines sold.  Reversing the
trend of the last three years, the realized gross margin of
softlines exceeded that of hardlines by 0.8%.  During 1996, the
Company plans to continue store layout changes in a number of
stores which are intended to provide better sales-floor space
allocation and merchandise presentation.

Net sales for 1994 equaled $1,133.0 million, up $212.3 million, or
23.1%, from 1993 sales of $920.7 million.  The increase resulted
from the net addition of 183 stores during 1994 and  12.7% increase
in same-store sales.

Gross profit - Gross profit for 1995 was $420.7 million, compared
with $326.0 million and $267.1 million for 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 29.0% in
1995 compared with 28.8% in 1994.  This 0.2% increase was
principally the result of lower markdowns, an increased LIFO credit
and higher markups on purchases which more than offset the effect
of lower markups on beginning inventories and reduced purchase
discounts.  

Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 28.8% in 1994 compared
with 29.0% in 1993.  This decrease of 0.2% resulted principally
from higher distribution expenses, increased markdowns, and higher
inventory shrinkage.  

Selling, general, and administrative expenses - Selling, general
and administrative expenses for 1995 were $299.6 million or 20.7%
of sales, compared with $245.8 million, or 21.7% of sales in 1994. 
Total expenses increased 21.9% principally as a result of opening
and operating 259 net new stores.  The 1995 operating expense-to-
sales ratio is the lowest in the last ten years.  This lower
operating expense ratio resulted primarily from improved self-
insurance reserves, supplies, advertising, health insurance, and
utility expense ratios.  These improvements were partially offset
by higher depreciation caused mainly by the increased number of
stores in operation, higher than expected distribution labor and
freight costs due to the operation of third-party warehouses and
higher incentive compensation expense as a result of the expansion
of the incentive compensation program to include all store
personnel.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $245.8 million in
1994, or 21.7% of sales, compared with $206.2 million in 1993, or
22.4% of sales.  Salary, rent, and advertising expenses in 1994 all
declined as a percentage of sales as a result of tight control of
overhead and significant sales increases for the year.  These
decreases more than offset increases in depreciation and supplies. 

Interest expense - In 1995, interest expense increased 27.7% to
$2.8 million from $2.2 million in the prior year.  This increase
was attributable to higher interest rates and higher average short-
term borrowings during the year.  Daily average total debt
outstanding equaled $57.6 million in 1995 versus $41.4 million in
1994.  Interest expense declined 17.4% to $2.2 million in 1994 from
$2.7 million in 1993.  The 1994 decrease resulted from lower
interest rates and the resolution of a state income tax issue for
which the Company had been accruing interest.

Provision for taxes on income - The effective income tax rates for
1995, 1994 and 1993 were 37.8%, 37.8%, and 38.9%, respectively. 
The decrease in the 1994 rate resulted primarily from the
resolution of certain income tax issues and changes
 

in state income tax apportionment rates.  As a result of the
December 31, 1994 expiration of Targeted Jobs Tax Credits program,
the Company anticipates an increase in its effective tax rate to
38.5% for 1996.

Return on equity and assets - The ratio of net earnings to average
shareholders' equity was 26.1% in 1995 as compared with 22.6% and
20.9% in 1994 and 1993, respectively.  Return on average assets
increased to 15.7% in 1995 from 13.6% in 1994 and 12.8% in 1993. 
These improvements resulted from higher earnings.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Working capital - Working capital increased to $201.2 from $166.8
million in 1994, an increase of 20.6%.  The year-end current ratio
for 1995 equaled 2.0 compared with 2.1 for 1994 as a result of
proportionately larger increases in short-term borrowings and
accrued expenses, and a decrease in cash.



Cash flows from operating activities - Net cash provided by
operations increased $7.1 million, or 19.5%, to $43.3 million in
1995.  The $96.1 million increase in cash used to purchase
merchandise inventories during 1995 was partially offset by the
trade accounts payable increase of $30.6 million and the accrued
expenses increase of $13.1 million.  The higher level of inventory
was the result of adding 259 net new stores, inventory held in the
Ardmore, Oklahoma distribution center which had just commenced
operation at year end, increased import merchandise in transit and
better in stock positions at all stores.  Trade accounts payable
increased as a result of greater inventory purchases.  Accrued
expenses increased primarily because of larger accruals for both
self-insurance reserves and incentive compensation.

Net cash provided by operations equaled $36.2 million in 1994. 
Inventories rose by $43.2 million in 1994 principally as a result
of opening 183 net new stores, increasing the level of in-transit
import merchandise and improving the stores' in-stock position. 
The 1994 increase in accrued expenses resulted principally from
higher self-insurance reserves and incentive compensation accruals.

Cash flows from investing activities - Capital expenditures in 1995
totaled $65.8 million compared with $35.0 million in 1994. 
Distribution-related expenditures totaled $28.4 million in 1995
primarily as a result of the construction of the Ardmore, Oklahoma
distribution center which equaled $23.3 million.  Also during 1995,
the Company opened 302 new stores and remodeled or relocated 297
stores at a cost of $25.9 million compared with $20.8 million in
1994.

Capital expenditures during 1994 totaled $35.0 million compared
with $24.7 million in 1993.  Expenditures for new, relocated and
remodeled stores increased to $20.8 million from $12.4 million in
1993.  In addition, the Company spent $4.8 million to install Omron
electronic cash registers in all stores, $2.5 million for store
fixtures, $1.8 million for delivery trailers and $1.4 million for
office expansion and remodeling.

Capital expenditures during 1996 are estimated to be $55 to $65
million.  This will include approximately $31 million for new,
relocated and remodeled stores, with the balance to be spent on
information technology and distribution and transportation needs. 
The Company expects that its capital expenditure requirements will 
be met through  internally generated  funds supplemented by


short-term borrowings.  Capital expenditures in the last three
years are summarized in the following table (amounts in thousands
except number of stores):



Cash flows from financing activities - Total debt (including
current maturities and short-term borrowings) was $35.8 million in
1995, $25.0 million in 1994, and $18.3 million in 1993.  Long-term
debt at January 31, 1995 was $4.8 million, a decrease of $0.9
million from 1994.  The ratio of total debt (including current
maturities and short-term borrowings) to equity increased slightly
to 11.1% in 1995 from 10.4% in 1994.

Average daily use of short-term debt increased 51.1% to $51.5
million in 1995. The primary reason is a 37% increase in inventory
as a result of opening 259 net new stores, the initial stocking of
the new Ardmore, Oklahoma distribution center and the continued
growth in purchasing import merchandise which is financed before
receipt.  The construction of the new distribution center in
Ardmore, Oklahoma also impacted daily borrowings, especially during
the last half of the year when construction of the facility was at
its peak.

Because of the large impact of seasonal buying (e.g., Christmas and
back-to-school purchases), the Company's working capital
requirements vary significantly during the year.  These working
capital requirements were financed by short-term borrowings under
the Company's $65 million revolving credit/term loan agreement and
$95 million of short-term bank lines of credit at year end 1995. 

Seasonal working capital requirements will continue to be met
through cash flow provided by operating activities supplemented by
the revolving credit/term loan facility, which the Company
anticipates will be increased during 1996, and credit lines
mentioned above. 



  Stock transactions - Common stock issued during 1995 totaled
13,445,000 shares valued at $6.7 million.  In 1994, 18,856,000
shares valued at $9.4 million were issued.  All common stock issued
in both years was related to declared stock splits and the exercise
of stock options.  Shares of treasury stock were reissued

 
in transactions with the employee stock ownership plan, the
employee stock incentive plan and the outside directors' stock
option plan.  In 1995, the Company issued 1,715,742 shares of
Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock from the authorized but
unissued preferred stock approved by the stockholders in 1992 to
shareholders of CTS, Inc. in exchange for the 8,578,710 shares of
Dollar General common stock held by CTS, Inc., a personal holding
company controlled by members of the Turner family, the founders of
Dollar General. 

Effects of inflation and changing prices - The Company believes
that inflation had a limited impact on its overall operations
during 1995, 1994 and 1993.  In particular, the effect of inflation
on cost of goods sold has been minimal as reflected by the small 
decline in LIFO reserves in 1995, 1994 and 1993.


Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
                     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                       January 31, 1995 and 1994
            (Dollars in thousands except per share amounts)


   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
            (Dollars in thousands except per share amounts)


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                          
(Dollars in thousands)             



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

                                   
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
(Dollars in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Accounting Policies:
The Company sells general merchandise on a retail basis through
company-owned stores. Its significant accounting policies follow:

Basis of presentation - The following notes contain references to
years 1995, 1994 and 1993 which represent fiscal years ended
January 31, 1995, January 31, 1994 and January 31, 1993.  The
consolidated financial statements include all subsidiaries. 
Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.  

Cash and cash equivalents - Cash and cash equivalents include
highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months
or less.

Inventories - Inventories are stated at cost, using the retail
last-in, first- out (LIFO) method which is not in excess of market. 
The excess of current cost over LIFO cost was $22.2 million, $27.0
million and $28.3 million at January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
respectively.  The LIFO reserves decreased by $4.8 million in 1995,
$1.3 million in 1994 and $0.7 million in 1993.

Preopening costs - Preopening costs for new stores are expensed as
incurred.

Property and equipment - Property and equipment are recorded at
cost.  The Company provides for depreciation of buildings and
equipment on a straight line basis over the following estimated
useful lives:  buildings, 25 to 39 years; furniture, fixtures and
equipment, 5 to 10 years.  Depreciation expense was $17.1 million,
$11.6 million, and $8.1 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.

Insurance claims provisions - The Company retains a portion of the
risk for its workers' compensation, employee health insurance,
general liability, property, and automobile coverages. 
Accordingly, provisions are made for the Company's actuarially
determined estimates of future claim costs for such risks.  To the
extent that subsequent claim costs vary from those estimates,
current earnings are charged or credited.

Net income per common and common equivalent share - Net income per
common and common equivalent share is based on the weighted average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during each year,
after giving effect to the assumed exercise of all dilutive stock
options using the treasury stock method and the treatment of
convertible preferred stock shares as common stock equivalents. 
Net income per common and common equivalent shares is also
presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income on
an adjusted basis, which gives retroactive effect to a five-for-
four stock split declared February 6, 1995 for shareholders of
record on February 23, 1995, and paid on March 6, 1995.

2.  Cash and Short-Term Borrowings:
The cash management system provides for daily investment of
available balances and the funding of outstanding checks when
presented for payment.

Outstanding but unpresented checks totaling $48.3 million and $36.3
million at January 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively, have been
included in accounts payable.  Upon presentation for payment, they
will be funded through available cash balances or the revolving
credit/term loan agreement.

The Company had lines of credit with banks totaling $95.0 million
at January 31, 1995, and $35.0 million at January 31, 1994.  The
lines are available for general corporate purposes and are subject
to periodic review by the lending institutions which may increase
or decrease the amounts available.  There were no borrowings
outstanding under these lines at January 31, 1995 and 1994. 
Additionally, the Company had a $145.0 million facility at January
31, 1995 and a $85.0 million facility at January 31, 1994 available
for the issuance of letters of credit.  At January 31, 1995 and
1994, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $111.0
million and $69.9 million, respectively.

The Company also has a $65.0 million revolving credit/term loan
agreement to be used for seasonal working capital requirements
which expires in September 1995.  Borrowings under this facility
were $29.6 million and $18.0 million at January


31, 1995, and 1994, respectively. Interest rates on amounts
borrowed under this agreement can float with the prime commercial
lending rate or can be fixed not to exceed the New York certificate
of deposit rate plus 0.7%, the Adjusted Eurodollar rate plus 0.45%,
or the Banker's Acceptance rate plus 0.45%, all for periods of up
to six months.  The weighted average interest rates were 6.9% and
3.9% at January 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

3. Accrued Expenses:
Accrued expenses consist of the following:



4.  Income Taxes:
The provision for taxes consists of the following:



Deferred tax expense (credit) is recognized for the future tax
consequences of temporary differences between the amounts reported
in the Company's financial statements and the tax basis of its
assets and liabilities.  Primary differences giving rise to the
Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:




Reconciliation of the federal statutory rate and the effective
income tax rate follows:



5.Long-Term Debt:
Long-term debt consists of the following:



Certain loan agreements contain restrictive covenants which, among
other things, require the Company to maintain minimum amounts of
tangible net worth and working capital and restrict capital
expenditures, repurchases of capital stock and additional
borrowings.

Approximate maturities on long-term obligations in the years ending
January 31, 1996, through 2000 are (in millions): $1.4; $1.5; $1.5;
$0.8 and $0.8.

6.Commitments:
At January 31, 1995, the Company and certain subsidiaries were
committed for retail store space under noncancelable operating
lease agreements, requiring minimum annual rental payments of (in
millions):  1996, $35.0; 1997, $27.4; 1998, $17.6; 1999, $8.8;
2000, $2.8 and $0.1 in later years.  Most leases include renewal
options for periods ranging from two to five years, and provisions
for contingent rentals based upon a percentage of defined sales
volume.

Rent expense under all operating store leases was as follows:




7.Employee Benefits:
The Company has two noncontributory defined contribution retirement
plans covering substantially all employees.  Expense for these
plans was approximately $3.5 million, $2.6 million and $1.6 million
in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The Company funds all
benefit-plan costs as accrued.

8.Capital Stock:
The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of common
stock and preferred stock.  On February 6, 1995, the Company's
Board of Directors authorized for distribution on March 6, 1995, a
five-for-four common stock split to shareholders of record on
February 23, 1995.

On August 22, 1994, the Company exchanged 1,715,742 shares of
Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock for the 8,578,710
shares of Dollar General common stock owned by CTS, Inc., a
personal holding company controlled by members of the Turner
family, the founders of Dollar General.  The Series A Convertible
Junior Preferred Stock was authorized by the Board of Directors out
of the authorized but unissued preferred stock approved by the
Company's stockholders in 1992.  The exchange, negotiated and
recommended by a special committee of the Company's Board of
Directors, came in response to a request from CTS, Inc. to consider
a transaction to meet estate planning needs of the Turner family. 
The Series A convertible Junior Preferred Stock is (i)convertible
into common stock pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Restated Articles of Incorporation and (ii) is voted with the
common stock on all matters presented to the holders of common
stock.  The Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock is not
convertible at the option of the holder until August 22, 1996;
however, under certain circumstances the preferred stock may be
converted into common stock prior to such date.  In the three years
following August 22, 1996, the conversion ratio increases from 90%
of the initial exchange ratio of five (5) shares of common stock
for each share of Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock
converted (adjusted for all intervening stock splits or
adjustments) to 100% of the initial exchange ratio (as adjusted). 
Additionally, the Series A Convertible Junior Preferred Stock is
not transferrable by the holders thereof. 

9.  Stock Option Plans:
The Company has stock option plans under which options to purchase
common stock may be granted to officers, directors and key
employees. Plan activity (as adjusted for the March 6, 1995 five-
for-four common stock split) is summarized below:
At January 31, 1995 and 1994, options for 1,129,958 and 794,235
shares were exercisable.  At January 31, 1995 and 1994, shares
available for granting of stock options under the Company's stock
option plans were 908,749 and 3,077,765 shares, respectively.  All
unexercised options expire not later than the year  2005.


At January 31, 1995 and 1994, options for 1,129,958 and 794,235
shares were exercisable.  At January 31, 1995 and 1994, shares
available for granting of stock options under the Company's stock
option plans were 908,749 and 3,077,765 shares, respectively.  All
unexercised options expire not later than the year 2005.


10.  Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited):
The following is selected unaudited quarterly financial data for
the fiscal years ended January 31, 1995 and 1994.  Amounts are in
thousands except per share data.



(a)Based on common and common equivalent shares before adjustment
for March 6, 1995, five-for-four common stock split.
(b)Based on common and common equivalent shares as adjusted to give
retroactive effect to the March 6, 1995, five-for-four common stock
split.

Cost of goods sold was determined in the first, second and third
quarters utilizing estimates of inventory shrinkage, inflation and
markdowns.  Cost of goods sold for the fourth quarter includes an
adjustment of these estimates based upon actual results.  Such
adjustments decreased fourth quarter cost of goods sold by $1.4
million in 1995 and $0.8 million in 1994.  In addition, selling,
general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter of 1994
were increased by $1.5 million referable to incentive bonuses and
contingent rentals which were estimated during the first three
quarters.

11.  Subsequent Event
The Company's Board of Directors authorized on February 6, 1995, a
five-for-four common stock split for shareholders of record on
February 23, 1995, which was paid March 6, 1995.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

Dollar General Corporation 
Scottsville, Kentucky

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated balance sheet of Dollar General
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of January 31, 1995, and the
related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and
cash flows for the year then ended, and have issued our report
thereon dated March 6, 1995.

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that
caused us to believe that the Company was not in compliance with
any of the terms, covenants, provisions, or conditions of
paragraphs 8(b), 8(c), 9(e), or 9(j) of the Guaranty Agreement
dated December 1, 1985 with Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N.A.
insofar as they relate to accounting or auditing matters.  However,
it should be noted that our audit was not directed primarily toward
obtaining knowledge of such noncompliance.

This report is intended solely for the information and use of the
Board of Directors and management of Dollar General Corporation and
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N.A. and should not be used for
any other purpose.



COOPERS & LYBRAND, L.L.P.

Louisville, Kentucky
March 6, 1995


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

Inapplicable.

                               PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding directors is incorporated herein by reference
from the information contained on pages 3 through 7 and page 29,
under the caption, "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934," of the Company's Proxy Statement relating to
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 5, 1995. 
Information regarding the Company's executive officers is contained
herein at Part I, pursuant to General Instruction G(3).

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information regarding executive compensation is incorporated herein
by reference from the information under the captions "Executive
Compensation" and "Election of Directors - Compensation of
Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 5, 1995.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

This information is incorporated herein by reference from the
information under the captions "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership by Officers and
Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 5, 1995.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

This information is incorporated herein by reference from the
information under the caption "Transactions with Management and
Others" of the Company's Proxy Statement relating to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 5, 1995.


PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a)      (1)Consolidated Financial Statements:

         The following Financial Statements are incorporated herein
         by reference from Part II, Item 8 of this report:

         Consolidated Balance Sheets, January 31, 1995 and 1994

         Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
             January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
             January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
         years ended January 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         Report of Independent Accountants

All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
are not required under the related instructions, are inapplicable
or the information is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and therefore, have been omitted.

(3)      Exhibits:


3   (a)       Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended
              (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1993)
3   (b)       Bylaws as amended February 1, 1993 (incorporated by
              reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended January 31, 1993)
4             Articles V, VII and X of the Registrant's Articles
              of Incorporation (included in Exhibit 3 (a))
10  (a)       Loan Agreement dated August 19, 1992, as amended,
              by and among Dollar General Corporation, Dolgencorp,
              Inc. and NationsBank of North Carolina, N.A.  
              (incorporated herein by reference to the Annual    
              Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended      
              January 31, 1993
10   (b)      Amendments to Loan Agreement dated December 23, 1993
              and October 31, 1994


10  (c)       Exchange Agreement dated August 22, 1994, by and
              among Dollar General Corporation, Dolgencorp, Inc.
              and stockholders of C.T.S., Inc. (incorporated by
              reference to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
              8-K dated August 22, 1994, Exhibit 10.1)
10  (d)       Registration Rights Agreement dated August 22, 1994
              by and among Dollar General Corporation, Turner
              Children Trust dated January 21, 1980, Cal Turner,
              Jr., James Stephen Turner, Laura Jo Douglas and
              Elizabeth Turner Campbell (incorporated by reference
              to the Registrant's current Report on Form 8-K dated
              August 22, 1994, Exhibit 10.2)

MANAGEMENT CONTRACT OR COMPENSATORY PLANS

10  (e)       Dollar General Corporation 1988 Outside Directors'
              Stock Option Plan, as amended, (incorporated herein
              by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
              Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
              held June 13, 1989)
10  (f)       Dollar General Corporation 1989 Employee Stock
              Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated herein by
              reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
              Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
              held June 13, 1989)
10  (g)       1993 Employee Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated
              herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive
              Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of          
              Stockholders held June 7, 1993)
10  (h)       1993 Outside Directors' Stock Option Plan          
              (incorporated herein by reference to the           
              Registrant's definitive Proxy  Statement for the   
              Annual Meeting of Stockholders held June 7, 1993)
10  (i)       1995 Employee Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated
              herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive
              Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of          
              Stockholders to be held June 5, 1995)
10  (j)       1995 Outside Directors'Stock Option Plan           
              (incorporated herein by reference to the           
              Registrant's definitive Proxy  Statement           
              for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
              June 5, 1995)
11            Statement re: Computation of Earnings Per Share
13            Annual Report to Stockholders
22            Subsidiaries of the Registrant
23            Consent of Independent Accountants  

(b) No report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company during the last
    quarter of fiscal 1995.

SIGNATURES
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                                   DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION

Date:  April 28, 1995    By:  /s/Cal Turner, Jr                        
Cal Turner, Jr.,President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.




Name
Title
Date


/s/Cal Turner, Jr.      
   CAL TURNER, JR.
Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief
Executive Officer (Principal
Executive Officer)
April 28,


/s/C. Kent Garner       
   C. KENT GARNER
Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer (Principal
Financial and Accounting
Officer)
April 28,



/s/Cal Turner           
   CAL TURNER


Director

April 28,


/s/Wallace N. Rasmussen 
   WALLACE N. RASMUSSEN

Director
April 28,


/s/John B. Holland      
   JOHN B. HOLLAND

Director
April 28,


/s/James D. Cockman     
   JAMES D. COCKMAN

Director
April 28,


/s/William S. Wire, II  
   WILLIAM S. WIRE, II

Director
April 28,


/s/James L. Clayton     
   JAMES L. CLAYTON

Director
April 28,


/S/Reginald D. Dickson
REGINALD D. DICKSON
Director
April 28,



/s/David M. Wilds       
   DAVID M. WILDS


Director

April 28,



INDEX TO EXHIBITS


3   (a)       Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended
              (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1993)
3   (b)       Bylaws as amended February 1, 1993 (incorporated by
              reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended January 31, 1993)
4             Articles V, VII and X of the Registrant's Articles
              of Incorporation (included in Exhibit 3 (a))
10  (a)       Loan Agreement dated August 19, 1992, as amended,
              by and among Dollar General Corporation, Dolgencorp,
              Inc. and NationsBank of North Carolina, N.A.  
              (incorporated herein by reference to the Annual    
              Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended      
              January 31, 1993
10   (b)      Amendments to Loan Agreement dated December 23, 1993
              and October 31, 1994
10  (c)       Exchange Agreement dated August 22, 1994, by and
              among Dollar General Corporation, Dolgencorp, Inc.
              and stockholders of C.T.S., Inc. (incorporated by
              reference to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
              8-K dated August 22, 1994, Exhibit 10.1)
10  (d)       Registration Rights Agreement dated August 22, 1994
              by and among Dollar General Corporation, Turner
              Children Trust dated January 21, 1980, Cal Turner,
              Jr., James Stephen Turner, Laura Jo Douglas and
              Elizabeth Turner Campbell (incorporated by reference
              to the Registrant's current Report on Form 8-K dated
              August 22, 1994, Exhibit 10.2)

MANAGEMENT CONTRACT OR COMPENSATORY PLANS

10  (e)       Dollar General Corporation 1988 Outside Directors'
              Stock Option Plan, as amended, (incorporated herein
              by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
              Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
              held June 13, 1989)
10  (f)       Dollar General Corporation 1989 Employee Stock
              Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated herein by
              reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
              Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
              held June 13, 1989)
10  (g)       1993 Employee Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated
              herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive
              Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of          
              Stockholders held June 7, 1993)
10  (h)       1993 Outside Directors' Stock Option Plan          
              (incorporated herein by reference to the           
              Registrant's definitive Proxy  Statement for the   
              Annual Meeting of Stockholders held June 7, 1993)
10  (i)       1995 Employee Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated
              herein by reference to the Registrant's definitive
              Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of          
              Stockholders to be held June 5, 1995)
10  (j)       1995 Outside Directors'Stock Option Plan           
              (incorporated herein by reference to the           
              Registrant's definitive Proxy  Statement           
              for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
              June 5, 1995)
11            Statement re: Computation of Earnings Per Share
13            Annual Report to Stockholders
22            Subsidiaries of the Registrant
23            Consent of Independent Accountants


