
10-K405
FORM 10-K



================================================================================

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 [Fee Required]
     For fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 [No Fee Required]

Commission file number 1-8400.

                               AMR CORPORATION
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                       75-1825172
- - -----------------------------------         ------------------------------------
 (State or other jurisdiction               (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 of incorporation or organization)
                                       
      4333 Amon Carter Blvd.      
         Fort Worth, Texas                                76155
- - ---------------------------------------     ------------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices                 (Zip Code)

                                       
 Registrant's telephone number, including area code        (817) 963-1234
                                                   -----------------------------
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                          


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     NONE
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               (Title of Class)


 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
 required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
 registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
 such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X    No        .
                                                     -------    -------

 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
 of Regulation S-K (Section  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
 and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in
 definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
 III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

 The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
 registrant as of March 18, 1996, was approximately $6,985,304,690.  As of
 March 18, 1996, 76,761,590 shares of the registrant's common stock were
 outstanding.


                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from
 the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 15,
 1996.

================================================================================

                                    PART I
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) was incorporated in October 1982.  AMR's
principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934.
For financial reporting purposes, AMR's operations fall within three major
lines of business:  the Airline Group, The SABRE Group and the Management
Services Group.

AIRLINE GROUP

The Airline Group consists primarily of American's Passenger and Cargo
divisions, as well as AMR Eagle, Inc. and AMR Leasing Corporation, which are
subsidiaries of AMR.

AMERICAN'S PASSENGER DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled passenger
airlines in the world.  At the end of 1995, American provided scheduled jet
service to more than 160 destinations, primarily throughout North America, the
Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and the Pacific.

AMERICAN'S CARGO DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers
in the world.  The Cargo Division provides a full range of freight and mail
services to shippers throughout the airline's system.  In addition, through
cooperative agreements with other carriers, it has the ability to transport
shipments to virtually any country in the world.

AMR EAGLE, INC. owns the four regional airlines which operate as "American
Eagle" -- Flagship Airlines, Inc., Simmons Airlines, Inc., Executive Airlines,
Inc. and Wings West Airlines, Inc.  The American Eagle carriers provide
connecting turboprop service from seven of American's high-traffic cities to
smaller markets throughout the United States, Canada, the Bahamas and the
Caribbean.

AMR LEASING CORPORATION is a financing subsidiary which leases regional
aircraft to subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.

THE SABRE GROUP

AMR formed The SABRE Group in 1993 to capitalize on the synergies of combining
its information technology businesses under common management.  The SABRE Group
consists primarily of four business units -- SABRE Travel Information Network
(STIN), SABRE Computer Services (SCS), SABRE Decision Technologies (SDT) and
SABRE Interactive.

STIN markets SABRE -- one of the largest privately owned, real-time computer
systems in the world -- which provides travel distribution and information
services to nearly 30,000 travel agencies in 74 countries on six continents.

SCS manages and maintains AMR's technology infrastructure.  This includes the
planning, installation and operation of AMR's data centers, as well as
technology and architectural planning for AMR units and for external customers.
SCS also provides voice and data communication services to AMR, but is
currently in negotiations with a third party to outsource this function.

SDT provides decision support systems, application software packages, systems
development and consulting services to other AMR units and to external
companies in the transportation, travel and other industries worldwide.

SABRE INTERACTIVE is a distribution strategy division formed by The SABRE Group
in 1995 to develop opportunities for consumer-direct travel distribution via
personal computer, CD-ROM, interactive television, cable television and other
media.







MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP

The Management Services Group consists of four AMR subsidiaries -- AMR Services
Corporation, Americas Ground Services, Inc. (AGS), AMR Investment Services,
Inc. and Airline Management Services, Inc. (AMS).

AMR SERVICES CORPORATION has six operating divisions:  Airline Services, AMR
Combs, AMR Distribution Systems, TeleService Resources (TSR), Data Management
Services (DMS) and AMR Training Group.  The Airline Services division's main
lines of business include airline passenger, ramp and cargo handling, cabin
service and an array of other air transportation-related services for carriers
around the world.  AMR Combs is a premier corporate aviation services network
of 13 facilities in major business centers in the United States and Mexico.  It
also is involved in a number of other related businesses, including parts and
aircraft sales and operation of one of the world's largest executive charter
services.  AMR Distribution Systems serves the logistics marketplace and
specializes in contract warehousing, trucking and multi-modal freight
forwarding services.  TSR provides comprehensive telemarketing and reservation
services for a wide range of clients.  DMS provides data capture and document
management services to American and to companies in the insurance, financial
services and transportation industries.  AMR Training Group provides a wide
variety of training services and operates the American Airlines Training &
Conference Center, which hosts a multitude of AMR training activities, and
markets its capabilities to other companies.

AGS provides airline ground and cabin service handling at 11 locations in eight
countries in the Caribbean and Central and South America.

AMR INVESTMENT SERVICES, INC. serves as an investment advisor to AMR and other
institutional investors.  It also manages the American AAdvantage Funds, which
have both institutional shareholders, including pension funds and bank and
trust companies, and individual shareholders.  As of December 31, 1995, AMR
Investment Services was responsible for management of approximately $13.7
billion in assets, including direct management of approximately $4.5 billion in
short-term investments.

AMS was formed in 1994 to manage the Company's service contracts with other
airlines such as the agreement to provide a variety of management, technical
and administrative services to Canadian Airlines International, Ltd. which the
Company signed in 1994.

Additional information regarding business segments is included in Management's
Discussion and Analysis on pages 15 through 27 and in Note 14 to the
consolidated financial statements.






ROUTES AND COMPETITION

AIR TRANSPORTATION   Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke
systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of
their service.  American operates four hubs:  Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago
O'Hare, Miami, and San Juan, Puerto Rico.  In 1995, American implemented
schedule reductions which ended the airline's hub operations at Raleigh/Durham
and Nashville.  Delta Air Lines and United Airlines have hub operations at
American's Dallas/Fort Worth and Chicago O'Hare hubs, respectively.

      The American Eagle carriers increase the number of markets the Airline
Group serves by providing connections to American at its hubs and certain other
major airports.  The American Eagle carriers -- Simmons Airlines, Inc.,
Flagship Airlines, Inc., Wings West Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc.
- - -- serve smaller markets through Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, Nashville,
San Juan, Los Angeles and New York John F. Kennedy International Airport.
American's competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional
carriers which provide service at their major hubs.

         In addition to its extensive domestic service, American provides
service to and from cities in various other countries, across the Atlantic and
Pacific, and between the U.S. and the Caribbean, and Central and South America.
American's operating revenues from foreign operations were approximately $4.7
billion in 1995, $4.3 billion in 1994 and $3.9 billion in 1993.  Additional
information about the Company's foreign operations is included in Note 13 to
the consolidated financial statements.

      Service over almost all of the Airline Group's routes is highly
competitive.  Currently, any carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of
Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any
two points within the U.S. and its possessions.  On most of its non-stop
routes, the Airline Group competes with at least one, and usually more than
one, major domestic airline including:  America West Airlines, Continental
Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Trans World
Airlines, United Airlines, and USAir.  Competition is even greater between
cities that require a connection, for example, Portland, Oregon to Tampa,
Florida, where eight airlines compete via the respective hubs of each carrier.
The Airline Group also competes with national, regional, all-cargo, and charter
carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground transportation.

      On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected by competition from
other airlines, some of which have cost structures significantly lower than
American's and can therefore operate profitably at lower fare levels.
Approximately 40 percent of American's bookings are impacted by competition
from lower-cost carriers.  American and its principal competitors use inventory
management systems that permit them to vary the number of discount seats
offered on each flight in an effort to maximize revenues, yet still be price
competitive with lower-cost carriers.

      Competition in many international markets is subject to extensive
government regulation.  In these markets, American competes with
foreign-investor owned carriers, state-owned airlines and U.S. carriers that
have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service
between the U.S. and various overseas locations.  American's operating
authority in these markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S.
and the respective countries, and in some cases, fares and schedules require
the approval of the DOT and the relevant foreign governments.  Because
international air transportation is governed by bilateral or other agreements
between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries involved, changes in U.S.
or foreign government aviation policy could result in the alteration or
termination of such agreements, diminish the value of such route authorities,
or otherwise affect American's international operations.  Bilateral agreements
between the U.S. and various foreign countries served by American are subject
to frequent renegotiation.

      The major domestic carriers have some advantage over foreign competitors
in their ability to generate traffic from their extensive domestic route
systems.  In many cases, however, U.S. carriers are limited in their rights to
carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries.  Some
of American's foreign competitors are owned and subsidized by foreign
governments.  To improve their access to each others' markets, various U.S. and
foreign carriers - - including American -- have made substantial equity
investments in, or established marketing relationships with, other carriers.
American has well-developed code sharing programs with Canadian Airlines
International, Qantas Airways, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Gulf
Air, and British Midland.  In the coming years, the Company expects to develop
these programs further and to evaluate new alliances with other international
carriers.






      The Airline Group believes that it has several advantages relative to its
competition.  Its fleet is young, efficient and quiet.  It has a comprehensive
domestic and international route structure, anchored by efficient hubs, which
permit it to take full advantage of whatever traffic growth occurs.  The
Company believes American's AAdvantage frequent flyer program, which is the
largest program in the industry, and its superior service also give it a
competitive advantage.

COMPUTER RESERVATION SYSTEMS   The complexity of the various schedules and
fares offered by air carriers has fostered the development of electronic
distribution systems.  Travel agents and other subscribers access travel
information and book airline, hotel and car rental reservations and issue
airline tickets using these systems.  American developed the SABRE computer
reservation system (CRS), which is one of the largest CRSs in the world.
Competition among the CRS vendors is strong.  Services similar to those offered
through SABRE are offered by several air carriers and other companies in the
United States and abroad.

      The SABRE CRS has several advantages relative to its competition.  SABRE
ranks first in market share among travel agents in the U.S.  The SABRE CRS is
furthering its expansion into international markets and continues to be in the
forefront of technological innovation in the CRS industry.

REGULATION

GENERAL   The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (Act) and various other statutes
amending the Act eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and
freight transportation.  However, the DOT and the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air
carriers under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended.  The DOT maintains
jurisdiction over international route authorities and certain consumer
protection matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage
liability, and computer reservations systems.  The DOT issued certain rules
governing the CRS industry which became effective on December 7, 1992, and
expire on December 31, 1997.

      The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing
personnel, aircraft and security standards.  In addition, the FAA has
implemented a number of requirements that the Airline Group is incorporating
into its maintenance program.  These matters relate to, among other things,
inspection and maintenance of aging aircraft, corrosion control, collision
avoidance and windshear detection.  Based on its current implementation
schedule, the Airline Group expects to be in compliance with the applicable
requirements within the required time periods.

      The U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline antitrust
matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the
transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air
transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests
in the National Mediation Board certain regulatory powers with respect to
disputes between airlines and labor unions arising under collective bargaining
agreements.

FARES   Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without
governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by substantial price
competition.  The DOT maintains authority over international fares, rates and
charges.  International fares and rates are also subject to the jurisdiction of
the governments of the foreign countries which American serves.  While air
carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate
tariffs, many international markets are characterized by substantial
commissions, overrides, and discounts to travel agents, brokers and
wholesalers.

      Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on
the Airline Group's financial results because the Airline Group is generally
required to match competitors' fares to maintain passenger traffic.  During
recent years, a number of new low-cost airlines have entered the domestic
market and several major airlines have begun to implement efforts to lower
their cost structures.  Further fare reductions, domestic and international,
may occur in the future.  If fare reductions are not offset by increases in
passenger traffic or changes in the mix of traffic that improves yields, the
Airline Group's operating results will be negatively impacted.






AIRPORT ACCESS   In 1968, the FAA issued a rule designating New York John F.
Kennedy, New York LaGuardia, Washington National, Chicago O'Hare and Newark
airports as high density traffic airports.  Newark was subsequently removed
from the high density airport classification.  The rule adopted hourly take-off
and landing slot allocations for each of these airports.  Currently, the FAA
permits the purchasing, selling, leasing and trading of these slots by airlines
and others, subject to certain restrictions.  Certain foreign airports,
including London Heathrow, a major European destination for American, also have
slot allocations.

      The Airline Group currently has sufficient slot authorizations to operate
its existing flights and has generally been able to obtain slots to expand its
operations and change its schedules.  There is no assurance, however, that the
Airline Group will be able to obtain slots for these purposes in the future,
because, among other factors, slot allocations are subject to changes in
government policies.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   The Company is subject to various laws and government
regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in
the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact
on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the
Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act,
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act).  The Company is
also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have
been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company's
operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been
delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes.  Many
state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and
health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements.
As a part of its continuing safety, health and environmental program, the
Company has maintained compliance with such requirements without any material
adverse effect on its business.

      For purposes of noise standards, jet aircraft are rated by categories or
"stages."  The ANCA requires the phase- out by December 31, 1999, of Stage II
aircraft operations, subject to certain exceptions.  Under final regulations
issued by the FAA in 1991, air carriers are required to reduce, by modification
or retirement, the number of Stage II aircraft in their fleets 25 percent by
December 31, 1994; 50 percent by December 31, 1996; 75 percent by December 31,
1998, and 100 percent by December 31, 1999.  Alternatively, a carrier may
satisfy the regulations by operating a fleet that is at least 55 percent, 65
percent, 75 percent, and 100 percent Stage III by the dates set forth in the
preceding sentence, respectively.  At December 31, 1995, approximately 89
percent of American's active fleet was Stage III, the quietest and most fuel
efficient rating category.

      The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems
to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere
unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air
transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft
noise reduction programs, including the imposition of night-time curfews.  The
ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on Stage III
aircraft first effective after October 1990, and establishes a regulatory
notice and review process for local restrictions on Stage II aircraft first
proposed after October 1990.  While American has had sufficient scheduling
flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, American's
operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become
more restrictive or widespread.

      American has been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) with respect to the following Superfund Sites:  Operating
Industries, Inc., California; Cannons, New Hampshire; Byron Barrel and Drum,
New York; Palmer PSC, Massachusetts; Frontier Chemical, New York and Duffy
Brothers, Massachusetts.  American has settled the Cannons, Byron Barrel and
Drum, Palmer PSC and Frontier Chemical matters, and all that remains to
complete these matters are administrative tasks.  American has signed a partial
consent decree with respect to Operating Industries, Inc.  With respect to the
Operating Industries, Inc., Palmer PSC, Frontier Chemical and Duffy Brothers
sites, American is one of several PRPs named at each site.  American's alleged
waste disposal volumes are minor compared to the other PRPs.

      American, along with most other tenants at Boston Logan International
Airport, has been notified under the Massachusetts State Superfund statute of a
claim for contribution by the Massachusetts Port Authority






(Massport).  Massport has claimed that American is responsible for past and
future remediation costs at the airport.  American is vigorously defending
against Massport's claim.

      American, along with most other tenants at the San Francisco
International Airport, has been ordered by the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board to engage in various studies of potential environmental
contamination at the airport and to undertake remedial measures, if necessary.

      The Miami International Airport Authority is currently remediating
various environmental conditions at the Miami International Airport (Airport)
and funding the remediation costs through landing fee revenues.  Some of the
costs of the remediation effort may be borne by carriers currently operating at
the Airport, including American, through increased landing fees since certain of
the potentially responsible parties are no longer in business. The future
increase in landing fees may be material but cannot be reasonably estimated due
to various factors, including the unknown extent of the remedial actions that
may be required, the proportion of the cost that will ultimately be recovered
from the responsible parties, and uncertainties regarding the environmental
agencies that will ultimately supervise the remedial activities and the nature
of that supervision.

      AMR Combs Memphis, an AMR Services subsidiary, has been named a PRP at an
EPA Superfund Site in West Memphis, Arkansas.  AMR Combs Memphis' alleged
involvement in the site is minor relative to the other PRPs.

      Flagship Airlines, Inc., an AMR Eagle subsidiary, has been notified of
its potential liability under New York law at an inactive hazardous waste site
in Poughkeepsie, New York.

      AMR does not expect these matters, individually or collectively, to have
a significant impact on its financial position or liquidity.

LABOR

The airline business is labor intensive.  Approximately 81 percent of AMR's
employees work in the Airline Group.  Wages, salaries and benefits represented
approximately 36 percent of AMR's consolidated operating expenses for the year
ended December 31, 1995.  To improve its competitive position, American has
undertaken various steps to reduce its unit labor costs, including workforce
reductions.

      The majority of American's employees are represented by labor unions and
covered by collective bargaining agreements.  American's relations with such
labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act.  Under this act, the
collective bargaining agreements among American and these organizations do not
expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party
wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other
party before the contract becomes amendable.  After receipt of such notice, the
parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached,
either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a
federal mediator.  If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may
determine, at any time, that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared,
the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties.  Either party may decline
to submit to arbitration.  If arbitration is rejected, a 30-day "cooling-off"
period commences, following which the labor organization may strike and the
airline may resort to "self-help," including the imposition of its proposed
amendments and the hiring of replacement workers.

      In October 1995, a panel of arbitrators issued a binding arbitration
award that resolved the remaining open issues in the labor contract between
American and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA).  The
arbitration award included a one-time early retirement program, for which AMR
recorded a charge in the fourth quarter.  American's collective bargaining
agreement with the APFA becomes amendable on November 1, 1998.

      In 1995, American reached agreements with the members of the Transport
Workers Union (TWU) on their labor contracts. The new contracts include a
one-time early retirement program, for which AMR recorded a charge in the
fourth quarter.  American's collective bargaining agreement with the TWU
becomes amendable on March 1, 2001.

      American's collective bargaining agreement with the Allied Pilots
Association (APA) became amendable on August 31, 1994.  In January 1996, the
APA filed a petition with the NMB to appoint a federal mediator.  A



mediator has been appointed, and initial meetings have been held between the
APA and the NMB mediator and between American and the NMB mediator.  Joint
meetings began in March 1996.

      A majority of the workforces at the four AMR Eagle carriers is
represented by labor unions and covered by a number of different collective
bargaining agreements.  Certain of these agreements are currently in
negotiation.  A 1995 decision by the NMB provides that the four AMR Eagle
carriers are to be treated as a single carrier for the limited purpose of labor
relations, which will result in all employees within each specific job class or
craft being represented by a single union for collective bargaining purposes.
This decision does not affect the current collective bargaining agreements or
the corporate status of the four carriers -- each continues to be a separate
company with its own government operating certificates.

FUEL

The Airline Group's operations are significantly affected by the availability
and price of jet fuel.  American's fuel costs and consumption for the years
1991 through 1995 were:



      Based upon American's 1995 fuel consumption, a one-cent rise in the
average annual price-per-gallon of jet fuel would increase American's monthly
fuel costs by approximately $2.3 million, not considering the offsetting effect
of American's fuel cost hedging program.

      The impact of fuel price changes on the Company's competitors is
dependent upon various factors, including their hedging strategies.  However,
lower fuel prices may be offset by increased price competition and lower
revenues for all air carriers.  Conversely, there can be no assurance that
American will be able to pass fuel cost increases on to its customers by
increasing fares in the future.

      Most of American's fuel is purchased pursuant to contracts which, by
their terms, may be terminated upon short notice.  While American does not
anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, dependency on foreign
imports of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet
fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the
future availability of jet fuel.  If there were major reductions in the
availability of jet fuel, American's business would be adversely affected.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM

American established the AAdvantage frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to
develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued
patronage.  AAdvantage members earn mileage credits for flights on American,
American Eagle and certain other participating airlines, or by utilizing
services of other program participants, including hotels, car rental companies
and bank credit card issuers.  American sells mileage credits to the other
companies participating in the program.  American reserves the right to change
the AAdvantage program rules, regulations, travel awards and special offers at
any time without notice.  American may initiate changes impacting, for example,
participant affiliations, rules for earning mileage credit, mileage levels and
awards, blackout dates and limited seating for travel awards, and the features
of special offers.  American reserves the right to end the AAdvantage program
with six months notice.

      Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel
on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, or for other travel
industry awards.  Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the
member may request an award certificate from American.  Award certificates may
be redeemed up to one



year after issuance.  Most travel awards are subject to blackout dates and
capacity controlled seating.  All miles earned after July 1989 must be redeemed
within three years or they expire.

      American accounts for its frequent flyer obligation on an accrual basis
using the incremental cost method.  American's frequent flyer liability is
accrued each time a member accumulates sufficient mileage in his or her account
to claim the lowest level of free travel award (25,000 miles) and such award is
expected to be used for free travel.  American includes fuel, food, and
reservations/ticketing costs, but not a contribution to overhead or profit, in
the calculation of incremental cost.  The cost for fuel is estimated based on
total fuel consumption tracked by various categories of markets, with an amount
allocated to each passenger.  Food costs are tracked by market category, with
an amount allocated to each passenger.  Reservation/ticketing costs are based
on the total number of passengers, including those traveling on free awards,
divided into American's total expense for these costs.  American defers a
portion of revenues from the sale of mileage credits to companies participating
in the AAdvantage program and recognizes such revenues over a period
approximating the period during which the mileage credits are used.

      At December 31, 1995 and 1994, American estimated that approximately 4.7
million and 4.5 million free travel awards, respectively, were eligible for
redemption.  At December 31, 1995 and 1994, American estimated that
approximately 4.0 million and 3.6 million free travel awards, respectively,
were expected to be redeemed for free travel.  In making this estimate,
American has excluded mileage in inactive accounts, mileage related to accounts
that have not yet reached the lowest level of free travel award, and mileage in
active accounts that have reached the lowest level of free travel award but
which is not expected to ever be redeemed for free travel.  The liability for
the program mileage that has reached the lowest level of free travel award and
is expected to be redeemed for free travel and deferred revenues for mileage
sold to others participating in the program was $370 million and $329 million,
representing 7.9 percent and 6.9 percent of AMR's total current liabilities, at
December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      The number of free travel awards used for travel on American during the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, was approximately 2,204,000,
2,198,000, and 2,163,000, respectively, representing 8.4 percent, 8.5 percent
and 9.5 percent of total revenue passenger miles for each period, respectively.
American believes displacement of revenue passengers is insignificant given
American's load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory,
and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to revenue passenger miles.

OTHER MATTERS

SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS   The Airline Group's results of operations for
any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year,
since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.
Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable
operating results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the
first and fourth quarters.

      The results of operations in the air transportation business have also
significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic
conditions.  In addition, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor
actions and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern.  Unaudited
quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 1995, is
included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

      No material part of the business of AMR and its subsidiaries is dependent
upon a single customer or very few customers.  Consequently, the loss of the
Company's largest few customers would not have a materially adverse effect upon
AMR.

INSURANCE   American carries insurance for public liability, passenger
liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft, in
amounts which, in the opinion of management, are adequate.

OTHER GOVERNMENT MATTERS   In time of war or during an unlimited national
emergency or civil defense emergency, American and other major air carriers may
be required to provide airlift services to the Military Airlift Command under
the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program.






ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES

FLIGHT EQUIPMENT

Owned and leased aircraft operated by AMR's subsidiaries at December 31, 1995,
included:



      For information concerning the estimated useful lives and residual values
for owned aircraft, lease terms and amortization relating to aircraft under
capital leases, and acquisitions of aircraft, see Notes 1, 3 and 4 to the
consolidated financial statements.  See Management's Discussion and Analysis
for discussion of the retirement of certain aircraft from the fleet.

      In April 1995, American announced an agreement to sell 12 of its
McDonnell Douglas MD-11 aircraft to Federal Express Corporation (FedEx), with
delivery of the aircraft between 1996 and 1999.  In addition, American has the
option to sell its remaining seven MD-11 aircraft to FedEx with deliveries
between 2000 and 2002.



      Lease expirations for leased aircraft operated by AMR's subsidiaries and
included in the preceding table as of December 31, 1995, were:




      The table excludes leases for 15 Boeing 767-300 Extended Range aircraft
which can be canceled with 30 days' notice during the initial 10-year lease
term.  At the end of that term in 1998, the leases can be renewed for periods
ranging from 10 to 12 years.  The table also excludes leases for 10 Saab 340A
aircraft, 10 Saab 340B aircraft, seven Saab 340B Plus aircraft, eight ATR 42
aircraft, and three Super ATR aircraft which can be canceled with six months or
less notice within certain restrictions.

      Substantially all of the Airline Group's aircraft leases include an
option to purchase the aircraft or to extend the lease term, or both, with the
purchase price or renewal rental to be based essentially on the market value of
the aircraft at the end of the term of the lease or at a predetermined fixed
rate.

GROUND PROPERTIES

American leases, or has built as leasehold improvements on leased property,
most of its airport and terminal facilities; certain corporate office,
maintenance and training facilities in Fort Worth, Texas; its principal
overhaul and maintenance base and computer facility at Tulsa International
Airport, Tulsa, Oklahoma; its regional reservation offices; and local ticket
and administration offices throughout the system.  American has entered into
agreements with the Tulsa Municipal Airport Trust; the Alliance Airport
Authority, Fort Worth, Texas; and the Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago O'Hare,
Raleigh/Durham, Nashville, San Juan, New York, and Los Angeles airport
authorities to provide funds for constructing, improving and modifying
facilities and acquiring equipment which are or will be leased to American.
American also utilizes public airports for its flight operations under lease or
use arrangements with the municipalities or governmental agencies owning or
controlling them and leases certain other ground equipment for use at its
facilities.

      For information concerning the estimated lives and residual values for
owned ground properties, lease terms and amortization relating to ground
properties under capital leases, and acquisitions of ground properties, see
Notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.



ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In January, 1985, American announced a new fare category, the "Ultimate
SuperSaver," a discount, advance purchase fare that carried a 25 percent
penalty upon cancellation.  On December 30, 1985, a class action lawsuit was
filed in Circuit Court, Cook County, Illinois entitled Johnson vs. American
Airlines, Inc.  The Johnson plaintiffs allege that the 10 percent federal
excise transportation tax should be excluded from the "fare" upon which the 25
percent penalty is assessed.  The case has not been certified as a class
action.  Summary judgment has been granted for American and the matter is
currently on appeal.  American believes the matter is without merit and is
vigorously defending the lawsuit.

         American has been sued in two class action cases that have been
consolidated in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, in connection with
certain changes made to American's AAdvantage frequent flyer program in May,
1988.  (Wolens, et al v. American Airlines, Inc., No. 88 CH 7554, and Tucker v.
American Airlines, Inc., No. 89 CH 199.)  In both cases, the plaintiffs seek to
represent all persons who joined the AAdvantage program before May 1988.
Currently, the plaintiffs allege that, on that date, American implemented
changes that limited the number of seats available to participants traveling on
certain awards and established blackout dates during which no AAdvantage seats
would be available for certain awards and that these changes breached
American's contracts with AAdvantage members.  Plaintiffs seek money damages
for such alleged breach and attorneys' fees.  Previously the plaintiffs also
alleged violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business
Practice Act (Consumer Fraud Act) and sought punitive damages, attorneys' fees
and injunctive relief preventing American from making changes to the AAdvantage
program.  American originally moved to dismiss all of the claims asserting that
they were preempted by the Federal Aviation Act and barred by the Commerce
Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

         Initially, the trial court denied American's preemption motions, but
certified its decision for interlocutory appeal.  In December 1990, the
Illinois Appellate Court held that plaintiffs' claims for an injunction are
preempted by the Federal Aviation Act, but that plaintiffs' claims for money
damages could proceed.  On March 12, 1992, the Illinois Supreme Court affirmed
the decision of the Appellate Court.  American sought a writ of certiorari from
the U.S. Supreme Court; and on October 5, 1992, the Court vacated the decision
of the Illinois Supreme Court and remanded the cases for reconsideration in
light of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Morales v. TWA, et al, which
interpreted the preemption provisions of the Federal Aviation Act very broadly.
On December 16, 1993, the Illinois Supreme Court rendered its decision on
remand, holding that plaintiffs' claims seeking an injunction are preempted,
but that identical claims for compensatory and punitive damages are not
preempted.  On February 8, 1994, American filed a petition for a writ of
certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court.  The Illinois Supreme Court granted
American's motion to stay the state court proceeding pending disposition of
American's petition in the U.S. Supreme Court.  The matter was argued before
the U.S.  Supreme Court on November 1, 1994, and on January 18, 1995, the U.S.
Supreme Court issued its opinion ending a portion of the suit against American.
The U.S. Supreme Court held that a) plaintiffs' claim for violation of the
Illinois Consumer Fraud Act is preempted by federal law -- entirely ending that
part of the case and eliminating plaintiffs' claim for punitive damages; and b)
certain breach of contract claims are not preempted by federal law.

         The Court did not determine, however, whether the contract claims
asserted by the plaintiffs are preempted, and therefore, remanded the case to
the state court for further proceedings.  Subsequently, plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint seeking damages solely for a breach of contract claim.  In
the event that the plaintiffs' breach of contract claim is eventually permitted
to proceed in the state court, American intends to vigorously defend the case.

         In December, 1993, American announced that the number of miles
required to claim a certain travel award under American's AAdvantage frequent
flyer program would be increased effective February 1, 1995.  On February 1,
1995 a class action lawsuit entitled Gutterman vs. American Airlines, Inc. was
filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois.  The Gutterman plaintiffs
claim that this increase in mileage level violated the terms and conditions of
the agreement between American and AAdvantage members.  On February 9, 1995, a
virtually identical class action lawsuit entitled Benway vs. American Airlines,
Inc. was filed in District Court, Dallas County, Texas.  After limited
discovery and prior to class certification, a summary judgment dismissing the
Benway case was entered by the Dallas County Court in July 1995.  On March 11,
1996, American's motion to dismiss the Gutterman lawsuit was denied, although
American's motion for summary judgment is still pending.






No class has been certified in the Gutterman lawsuit and to date no discovery
has been undertaken.  American believes the Gutterman complaint is without
merit and is vigorously defending the lawsuit.

         On February 10, 1995, American capped travel agency commissions for
one-way and round trip domestic tickets at $25 and $50, respectively.
Immediately thereafter, numerous travel agencies, and two travel agency trade
association groups, filed class action lawsuits against American and other
major air carriers (Continental, Delta, Northwest, United, USAir and TWA) that
had independently imposed similar limits on travel agency commissions.  The
suits were transferred to the United States District Court for the District of
Minnesota, and consolidated as a multi-district litigation captioned In Re:
Airline Travel Agency Commission Antitrust Litigation.  The plaintiffs assert
that the airline defendants conspired to reduce travel agency commissions and
to monopolize air travel in violation of sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act.
The case has been certified as a class action on behalf of approximately 40,000
domestic travel agencies and two travel agency trade associations.  In June
1995 after extensive, expedited discovery, the travel agents moved for a
preliminary injunction to enjoin the commission caps, and the defendants
simultaneously moved for summary judgment.  On August 31, 1995, the District
Court denied both motions.  Pre-trial activities against the defendants,
including American, are continuing.  American is vigorously defending the
lawsuit.


ITEM 4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during
the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of AMR as of December 31, 1995, were:

 Robert L. Crandall         Mr. Crandall was elected  Chairman and Chief
                            Executive Officer of AMR  and American in March
                            1985.  He has been  President of AMR since its
                            formation in 1982 and  served as President of
                            American from 1980 to March 1995.  Age 60.

 Donald J. Carty            Mr.  Carty was elected President of  American in
                            March 1995 and  Executive Vice President of AMR in
                            October 1989.   Except for two  years service as
                            President of Canadian  Pacific Air between March
                            1985  and March  1987, he has  been with  the
                            Company in  various finance  and planning positions
                            since 1978.  Age 49.


 Gerard J. Arpey            Mr. Arpey  was elected Chief Financial  Officer in
                            March  1995 and Senior Vice  President in April
                            1992.   Prior to  that, he served  as Vice
                            President  of American since  October 1989.  Age
                            37.

 Anne H. McNamara           Mrs. McNamara was elected Senior Vice President and
                            General Counsel in June 1988.  She  had served  as
                            Vice President  - Personnel Resources  of American
                            from  January 1988 through May 1988.   She was
                            elected Corporate Secretary  of AMR in  1982 and
                            American  in 1979 and held those positions through
                            1987.  Age 48.

 Charles D. MarLett         Mr.  MarLett was elected  Corporate Secretary in
                            January 1988.   He joined   American as an attorney
                            in June 1984.  Age 41.

      There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the
Company named above.

      There have been no events under any bankruptcy act, no criminal
proceedings, and no judgments or injunctions material to the evaluation of the
ability and integrity of any director or executive officer during the past five
years.






                                    PART II

- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS


The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol
AMR).
The approximate number of record holders of the Company's common stock at March
18, 1996, was 15,935.

      The range of closing market prices for AMR's common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange was:



      No cash dividends on common stock were declared for any period during
1995 or 1994.  Payment of dividends is subject to the restrictions described in
Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

 (in millions, except per share amounts)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(1)      Operating income (loss) for 1995 and 1994 includes restructuring costs
         of $533 million and $278 million, respectively.

(2)      Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation
         for the twelve months ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the
         preferred stock exchange is included in Note 5 to the consolidated
         financial statements.

No dividends were declared on common shares during any of the periods above.

Effective January 1, 1992, AMR adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other
Than Pensions," and No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."

Information on the comparability of results is included in Management's
Discussion and Analysis and the notes to the consolidated financial statements.



ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
             FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

AMR was incorporated in October 1982.  AMR's principal subsidiary, American
Airlines, Inc., was founded in 1934.  For financial reporting purposes, AMR's
operations fall within three major lines of business:  the Airline Group, The
SABRE Group and the Management Services Group.

AIRLINE GROUP

The Airline Group consists primarily of American's Passenger and Cargo
divisions, as well as AMR Eagle, Inc. and AMR Leasing Corporation, which are
subsidiaries of AMR.

AMERICAN'S PASSENGER DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled passenger
airlines in the world.  At the end of 1995, American provided scheduled jet
service to more than 160 destinations, primarily throughout North America, the
Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and the Pacific.

AMERICAN'S CARGO DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers
in the world.  The Cargo Division provides a full range of freight and mail
services to shippers throughout the airline's system.  In addition, through
cooperative agreements with other carriers, it has the ability to transport
shipments to virtually any country in the world.

AMR EAGLE, INC. owns the four regional airlines which operate as "American
Eagle" -- Flagship Airlines, Inc., Simmons Airlines, Inc., Executive Airlines,
Inc. and Wings West Airlines, Inc.  The American Eagle carriers provide
connecting turboprop service from seven of American's high-traffic cities to
smaller markets throughout the United States, Canada, the Bahamas and the
Caribbean.

AMR LEASING CORPORATION is a financing subsidiary which leases regional
aircraft to subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.

THE SABRE GROUP

AMR formed The SABRE Group in 1993 to capitalize on the synergies of combining
its information technology businesses under common management.  The SABRE Group
consists primarily of four business units -- SABRE Travel Information Network
(STIN), SABRE Computer Services (SCS), SABRE Decision Technologies (SDT) and
SABRE Interactive.

STIN markets SABRE -- one of the largest privately owned, real-time computer
systems in the world -- which provides travel distribution and information
services to nearly 30,000 travel agencies in 74 countries on six continents.

SCS manages and maintains AMR's technology infrastructure.  This includes the
planning, installation and operation of AMR's data centers, as well as
technology and architectural planning for AMR units and for external customers.
SCS also provides voice and data communication services to AMR, but is
currently in negotiations with a third party to outsource this function.

SDT provides decision support systems, application software packages, systems
development and consulting services to other AMR units and to external
companies in the transportation, travel and other industries worldwide.

SABRE INTERACTIVE is a distribution strategy division formed by The SABRE Group
in 1995 to develop opportunities for consumer-direct travel distribution via
personal computer, CD-ROM, interactive television, cable television and other
media.

MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP

The Management Services Group consists of four AMR subsidiaries -- AMR Services
Corporation, Americas Ground Services, Inc. (AGS), AMR Investment Services,
Inc. and Airline Management Services, Inc. (AMS).






AMR SERVICES CORPORATION has six operating divisions:  Airline Services, AMR
Combs, AMR Distribution Systems, TeleService Resources (TSR), Data Management
Services (DMS) and AMR Training Group.  The Airline Services division's main
lines of business include airline passenger, ramp and cargo handling, cabin
service and an array of other air transportation-related services for carriers
around the world.  AMR Combs is a premier corporate aviation services network
of 13 facilities in major business centers in the United States and Mexico.  It
also is involved in a number of other related businesses, including parts and
aircraft sales and operation of one of the world's largest executive charter
services.  AMR Distribution Systems serves the logistics marketplace and
specializes in contract warehousing, trucking and multi-modal freight
forwarding services.  TSR provides comprehensive telemarketing and reservation
services for a wide range of clients.  DMS provides data capture and document
management services to American and to companies in the insurance, financial
services and transportation industries.  AMR Training Group provides a wide
variety of training services and operates the American Airlines Training &
Conference Center, which hosts a multitude of AMR training activities, and
markets its capabilities to other companies.

AGS provides airline ground and cabin service handling at 11 locations in eight
countries in the Caribbean and Central and South America.

AMR INVESTMENT SERVICES, INC. serves as an investment advisor to AMR and other
institutional investors.  It also manages the American AAdvantage Funds, which
have both institutional shareholders, including pension funds and bank and
trust companies, and individual shareholders.  As of December 31, 1995, AMR
Investment Services was responsible for management of approximately $13.7
billion in assets, including direct management of approximately $4.5 billion in
short-term investments.

AMS was formed in 1994 to manage the Company's service contracts with other
airlines such as the agreement to provide a variety of management, technical
and administrative services to Canadian Airlines International, Ltd. which the
Company signed in 1994.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY   AMR's net income in 1995 was $167 million ($2.11 per common share,
primary and fully diluted, after preferred dividends).  During the fourth
quarter of 1995, AMR recorded a charge of $533 million ($334 million after tax)
related to the cost of future pension and other postretirement benefits for
voluntary early retirement programs offered in conjunction with recently
renegotiated labor contracts covering members of the Transport Workers Union
(TWU) and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA), as well as
provisions for the writedown of certain McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aircraft and
the planned retirement of certain turboprop aircraft, and other restructuring
activities.  Before the special charge, net earnings were $501 million.  In
addition to the restructuring charge, the Company's 1995 earnings include a
charge of $41 million ($26 million after tax) related to the loss of an
aircraft operated by American.  The expiration of the airline industry's fuel
tax exemption increased the Company's costs by approximately $22 million before
tax.  The Company's results were adversely affected by the disruption of
American Eagle operations at the Chicago and Raleigh/Durham hubs in the first
half of 1995 in response to the FAA's temporary restrictions on the operation
of ATR aircraft in known or forecast icing conditions.  In addition, in April
1995, a hailstorm at American's Dallas/Fort Worth hub temporarily disabled
approximately 10 percent of American's fleet and approximately nine percent of
AMR Eagle's fleet, forcing the carriers to temporarily reduce scheduled
service.  The combined impact of the Eagle fleet disruption and the hailstorm
on 1995 net income was approximately $40 million after tax.

      AMR's net income in 1994 was $228 million ($2.26 per common share,
primary and fully diluted, after preferred dividends but before an adjustment
to additional paid-in capital for an exchange of debentures for preferred
stock).  During the fourth quarter of 1994, AMR recorded a charge of $278
million ($174 million after tax) related to the cost of future pension and
other postretirement benefits for agent and management/support staff voluntary
early retirement programs, severance and other restructuring activities.
Before the special charge, net earnings were $402 million.  In addition to the
restructuring charge, the Company's 1994 earnings include a charge of $25
million ($16 million after tax) related to the loss of two regional aircraft
operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.  The Company's results were also
adversely affected by the disruption of American Eagle operations at the
Chicago and Raleigh/Durham hubs referenced above.






      In response to the increasing competitive emphasis on lower costs and
lower fares, in 1993 the Company began implementing a new strategic framework,
known as the Transition Plan.  The Plan has three parts, each intended to
improve the Company's results.  First, make the core airline business bigger
and stronger where economically justified.  Second, and conversely, shrink the
airline where it cannot compete profitably.  Third, encourage and support the
growth of the profitable information and management services businesses.

      The Company's improved results reflect progress on each of these three
tenets, as well as strong economies in most of the markets it serves,
relatively low jet fuel prices, and a healthier pricing environment which is
attributable in part to more modest industry capacity growth.

      American continued its effort to find the most productive use for each of
its aircraft. During 1995, the Company made major changes to both its jet and
turboprop schedules.  American reallocated resources to longer flights and
reduced its short-haul flying, thus improving plane miles per jet aircraft by
more than four percent.  To improve the mix of traffic, American increased
frequency in major markets while simultaneously ending hub operations at
Raleigh/Durham and Nashville and reducing or eliminating jet service in 72 city
pairs. On the international front, American increased the scope of its service
to Latin America and the United Kingdom, and took advantage of the new U.S.  -
Canadian bilateral agreement to open service on several new Canadian routes and
expand its code-sharing program with Canadian Airlines International (CAI).

      To reduce interest expense, the Company repurchased and retired prior to
maturity $378 million in face value of long-term debt, net of sinking fund
balances.  In addition, $616 million in outstanding principal of certain debt
and lease obligations was refinanced during 1995.  These transactions resulted
in an extraordinary loss of $45 million ($29 million after tax) in 1995.

      The Company's non-airline businesses continued their strong performances.
The SABRE Group posted pre-tax earnings of $371 million, a 15.6 percent
increase from 1994.  As a result of its increased domestic booking share and
the steady pace of international growth, The SABRE Group's revenues were up
11.0 percent from 1994, and its operating margin was approximately 23.5
percent.

      The Management Services Group's pre-tax earnings were $68 million, a 30.8
percent increase from 1994, due primarily to increased revenues for Airline
Management Services, which was formed in 1994 to manage the Company's service
contracts with other airlines, including CAI.






BUSINESS SEGMENTS   The following sections provide a discussion of AMR's
results by reporting segment.  Additional segment information is included in
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.

AIRLINE GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




REVENUES

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Airline Group revenues of $15.5 billion in 1995 were up
$606 million, 4.1 percent, versus 1994.  American's passenger revenues
increased 4.0 percent, $509 million.  The increase in passenger revenues
resulted primarily from a 4.1 percent increase in passenger traffic, partially
offset by a 0.1 percent decrease in passenger yield (the average amount one
passenger pays to fly one mile) from 12.97 to 12.96 cents.  American's average
stage length increased approximately 8.2 percent from 1994 to 1995, which
contributed to the decrease in passenger yield since per mile fares for longer
trips tend to be lower than for shorter trips.  For the year, domestic yield
decreased 0.9 percent and Latin American yields decreased 4.2 percent; yield
increased 8.1 percent in Europe and 8.2 percent in the Pacific.  In 1995,
American derived 69.4 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic
operations and 30.6 percent from international operations.

      American's domestic traffic increased 1.7 percent, to 71.2 billion
revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while domestic capacity, as measured by
available seat miles (ASMs), decreased 1.3 percent.  International traffic grew
9.8 percent, to 31.7 billion RPMs on capacity growth of 9.6 percent.  The
increase in international traffic was led by a 13.4 percent increase in Latin
America on capacity growth of 12.4 percent, and a 7.4 percent increase in
Europe on capacity growth of 7.9 percent.

      The AMR Eagle carriers' passenger revenues decreased by 1.9 percent or
$15 million.  Traffic on the AMR Eagle carriers increased 0.2 percent, to 2.5
billion RPMs, while capacity grew 2.5 percent.  Passenger yield decreased 2.1
percent, in part due to the carriers' increased stage length as they entered
longer-haul markets.  In the first quarter of 1995, AMR Eagle redeployed its
fleet of ATR aircraft in response to the FAA's temporary restrictions on the
operation of ATR aircraft in known or forecast icing conditions.  The fleet
disruption adversely impacted AMR Eagle's results in the first and second
quarters of 1995.  As of June 30, 1995, the Eagle aircraft had returned to
their original locations.

      Other revenues, consisting of contract maintenance and ground handling
services, fees for passenger services such as certain ticketing charges, and
miscellaneous other revenues, increased 16.5 percent, $101 million, primarily
as a result of an increase in contract maintenance and airport ground services
performed by American for other airlines.  The remaining portion of the
increase is attributable to the growth in passenger traffic.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Airline Group revenues of $14.9 billion in 1994 were up
$110 million, 0.7 percent, versus 1993.  American's passenger revenues
decreased 0.6 percent, $74 million.  The decline in passenger revenues resulted
primarily from a 2.3 percent decrease in passenger yield from 13.28 to 12.97
cents, partially offset by a 1.8 percent increase in passenger traffic.  Yields
were driven lower by competitive fare discounting and the greater presence of
low-fare competitors in certain domestic markets.  In addition, from 1993 to
1994, American's average stage length increased approximately 6.4 percent,
contributing to the decline in passenger yields.  For the year, domestic yield
decreased 4.0 percent, while yield increased 2.6 percent in Latin America and
4.5 percent in Europe.  In 1994, American derived 71.5 percent of its passenger
revenues from domestic operations and 28.5 percent from international
operations.

      American's domestic traffic increased 0.4 percent, to 70.0 billion RPMs,
while domestic capacity decreased 6.0 percent.  International traffic grew 5.2
percent, to 28.9 billion RPMs, on a capacity reduction of 2.7 percent.  The
increase in international traffic was led by a 9.7 percent increase in Latin
America on capacity growth of 1.1 percent, and a 1.6 percent increase in Europe
on a capacity reduction of 6.9 percent.  Traffic suffered in 1993 from
American's inability to carry passengers during the flight attendants' strike
in November 1993 and the adverse effect of the strike on passenger demand in
the following month.  Traffic in 1994 reflects the negative impact of the FAA's
ban on flying ATR aircraft in known or forecast icing conditions which was in
effect from December 9, 1994 through January 11, 1995.  The restrictions
resulted in the temporary suspension of American Eagle ATR service at Chicago
and the Company's decision to end American Eagle service at Raleigh/Durham.

      Despite the effect of the ATR restrictions, the AMR Eagle carriers'
passenger revenues increased 11.1 percent, $79 million.  Traffic on the AMR
Eagle carriers increased 17.0 percent, to 2.5 billion RPMs, while capacity grew
14.6 percent.  Passenger yield decreased 5.0 percent, in part due to the
carriers' increased stage length as they entered longer-haul markets.






      Other revenues, consisting of fees for excess baggage and other passenger
services, tour marketing, contract maintenance and miscellaneous other
revenues, increased 15.4 percent, $82 million, primarily as a result of
increased passenger traffic, additional contract maintenance work and leasing
of excess aircraft.

EXPENSES

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Airline Group operating expenses in 1995 included
restructuring charges of $533 million, related to the cost of future pension
and other postretirement benefits for voluntary early retirement programs
offered in conjunction with recently renegotiated labor contracts covering
members of the TWU and the APFA, as well as provisions for the writedown of
certain DC-10 aircraft and the planned retirement of certain turboprop
aircraft, and other restructuring activities.  Airline Group operating expenses
in 1994 included restructuring charges of $272 million, primarily resulting
from the cost of future pension and other postretirement benefits related to
agent and management voluntary early retirement programs.  Excluding the
restructuring costs, the Airline Group's operating expenses increased 2.8
percent, $395 million.  American's capacity increased 1.7 percent, to 155.3
billion ASMs.  American's Passenger Division cost per ASM, excluding
restructuring costs, increased 1.1 percent to 8.43 cents.

      Despite a 1.0 percent decrease in the average number of equivalent
employees, wages, salaries and benefits expense rose 3.2 percent, $159 million.
The increase was due primarily to contractual wage rate and seniority increases
that are built into the Company's labor contracts and an increase in the
provision for profit sharing.

      Fuel expense increased 0.6 percent, $9 million, due to the October 1995
expiration of the fuel tax exemption for the airline industry.  The expiration
of the exemption resulted in additional fuel expense of $22 million for 1995.
Absent the fuel tax, fuel expense would have decreased $13 million due
primarily to lower jet fuel prices.

      Commissions to agents decreased 3.1 percent, $42 million, due principally
to a reduction in average rates paid to agents attributable primarily to the
change in commission structure implemented in February 1995, partially offset
by commissions on increased passenger revenues.

      Other operating expenses, consisting of aircraft rentals, other rentals
and landing fees, food service costs, maintenance expenses and miscellaneous
operating expenses, increased 5.0 percent, $256 million.  Maintenance materials
and repairs expense increased 11.7 percent, $66 million, primarily due to
reduced expense in 1994 as a result of warranty recoveries as well as certain
engine and airframe service checks that became due for the first time in 1995.
Miscellaneous operating expenses (including data processing services, booking
fees, crew travel expenses, credit card fees, advertising and communications
costs) increased by 7.4 percent or $176 million, primarily due to costs
associated with increased contract maintenance work that American performed for
other airlines.  In addition, the Airline Group recognized approximately $19
million in foreign currency exchange losses attributable to unfavorable
exchange rates, primarily in Latin America.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Airline Group operating expenses in 1994 included
restructuring charges of $272 million, primarily resulting from the cost of
future pension and other postretirement benefits related to agent and
management voluntary early retirement programs.  Excluding the restructuring
costs, the Airline Group's operating expenses decreased 2.8 percent, $402
million.  American's capacity decreased 5.1 percent, due primarily to the
retirement of 41 older aircraft, partially offset by the addition of 22 new
aircraft.  Because capacity decreased more rapidly than expenses, American's
Passenger Division cost per ASM, excluding restructuring costs, increased 1.1
percent, to 8.34 cents.

      Despite a 4.1 percent decrease in the average number of equivalent
employees, wages, salaries and benefits expense rose 1.8 percent, $86 million.
The increase was due primarily to contractual and other wage and salary
adjustments for existing employees, variable compensation under the Company's
various profit sharing plans, and rising pension and other postretirement
benefits costs.

      Aircraft fuel expense decreased 13.9 percent, $261 million, due to an 8.4
percent decrease in American's average price per gallon and a 6.8 percent
decrease in gallons consumed by American.  American's average price per gallon
decreased from $0.62 per gallon in 1993 to $0.57 per gallon in 1994.  American
consumed an






average of 228 million gallons of jet fuel each month.  A one-cent increase in
fuel prices costs approximately $2.3 million per month, not considering the
offsetting effect of the Company's fuel price hedging program.

      Commissions to agents decreased 7.8 percent, $113 million, due to a lower
percentage of passenger revenues subject to commissions and a change in
classification of certain international commissions.

      Other operating expenses, consisting of aircraft rentals, other rentals
and landing fees, food service costs, maintenance expenses and miscellaneous
operating expenses, decreased 2.1 percent, $109 million.  Aircraft rentals
decreased 6.5 percent, $48 million, primarily due to the expiration of
operating leases during 1994 on 19 Boeing 727, 19 Jetstream 32 and five Shorts
360 aircraft.  Other rentals and landing fees decreased 1.5 percent, $12
million, due primarily to reduced landing fees expense resulting from
American's capacity reductions, partially offset by higher fee rates charged by
airports.  Food service costs decreased 4.2 percent, $29 million, due to a 1.8
percent decline in passengers boarded and aggressive cost reduction strategies,
including changes in meal scheduling policies, renegotiation of contracts and
increased use of vendor-prepared products.  Maintenance materials and repairs
expense decreased 13.7 percent, $90 million.  American's maintenance costs were
lower as a result of retiring older aircraft from the fleet, increased warranty
recoveries, and operational efficiencies gained by reducing the number of
maintenance locations and other initiatives.  Offsetting the decrease for
American, growth of the American Eagle operations generated an increase in its
maintenance materials and repairs costs.  Miscellaneous operating expenses
(including data processing services, booking fees, crew travel expenses, credit
card fees, advertising and communications costs) increased 3.0 percent, $70
million, primarily due to increased booking fees.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
Other Income (Expense) consists of interest income and expense, interest
capitalized and miscellaneous - net.

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, increased
11.9 percent, $72 million, due primarily to the issuance of $1.02 billion of
convertible debentures in exchange for 2.04 million preferred shares in late
1994, and the effect of rising short-term interest rates on floating rate debt
and interest rate swap agreements, partially offset by reductions due to the
repurchase and retirement of debt.  Interest income increased $22 million due
primarily to higher average rates and also higher investment balances.

      Miscellaneous - net for 1995 includes a $41 million charge related to the
loss of an aircraft operated by American.  Miscellaneous - net for 1994
includes a $25 million charge related to the loss of two regional aircraft
operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Interest expense, net of interest income, increased 1.6
percent, $9 million.  Interest expense was higher due to the effect of rising
interest rates on floating rate obligations, partially offset by the
repurchases and retirement of long-term debt, and savings generated by interest
rate swap transactions.  Interest capitalized decreased 56.0 percent, $28
million, primarily as a result of the decrease in the average balance during
the year of purchase deposits for flight equipment.

      Miscellaneous - net for 1994 includes a $25 million charge related to the
loss of two regional aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.
Miscellaneous - net for 1993 includes a $125 million charge related to the
retirement of certain DC-10 aircraft.






THE SABRE GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


REVENUES

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Revenues for The SABRE Group increased 11.0 percent,
$161 million, primarily due to increased booking volumes as a result of
international expansion in Europe, Latin America and Asia, booking fee price
increases and revenue generated from AMR's services agreement with Canadian
Airlines International (CAI).

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Revenues for The SABRE Group increased 12.4 percent,
$161 million.  Booking fee revenues increased due to growth in booking volumes,
increased average fees per booking collected from participating vendors and the
introduction of premium-priced products.  Revenues of the AMR Training &
Consulting Group, which began operations in the first quarter of 1993,
increased $29 million.  Other revenues rose as a result of increased license
fee revenues and systems development sales.

EXPENSES
1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 13.6 percent,
$54 million, due primarily to a 4.2 percent increase in the average number of
equivalent employees, annual salary increases and an increase in the provisions
for incentive compensation.  Other operating expenses increased 17.0 percent,
$82 million, due to increases in various employee-related costs of $29 million,
primarily contract programmers, and increases in communications costs,
subscriber incentives and other services purchased.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 5.6 percent, $21
million, due primarily to a 7.5 percent increase in the average number of
equivalent employees and increased provisions for incentive compensation.
Rentals increased 14.3 percent, $7 million, due to additional leased data
processing equipment and facilities costs.  Other operating expenses increased
5.9 percent, $27 million, primarily due to expansion in international markets
including Europe and Mexico.  The SABRE Group's 1994 operating expenses also
include $6 million in costs associated with restructuring activities.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
Other Income (Expense) for 1993 includes a provision of $71 million for losses
associated with a reservation system project and resolution of related
litigation.






MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


REVENUES

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Revenues for the Management Services Group increased
3.1 percent, $16 million.  Revenues for Airline Management Services, which was
formed in 1994 to manage the Company's service contracts with other airlines
including CAI, increased $25 million.  This increase was partially offset by a
decrease in AMR Services' revenues of 2.1 percent, $10 million, primarily due
to the impact of the sale of AMR Combs' Learjet Service Centers in the first
quarter of 1995, more than offsetting substantial revenue growth within AMR
Services' other lines of business.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Revenues for the Management Services Group increased
23.0 percent, $97 million.  AMR Services' revenues increased 15.1 percent, $62
million, primarily as a result of strong domestic fuel and deicing service
sales, the acquisition of an additional domestic fixed-base operator in
November 1993 and the expansion of international operations.  Revenues of
Americas Ground Services, which began operations in the second quarter of 1993,
increased $17 million.

EXPENSES

1995 COMPARED TO 1994   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 6.9 percent, $16
million, due primarily to a 6.5 percent increase in the average number of
equivalent employees.  Other operating expenses decreased 10.7 percent, $24
million, due primarily to the effect of the sale of AMR Combs' Learjet Service
Centers, offset by increased expenses due to the business growth of AMR
Services' other lines of business.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 36.7 percent,
$62 million, due primarily to an increase in the average number of equivalent
employees and wage and salary adjustments for existing employees.  Other
operating expenses increased 13.6 percent, $27 million, due primarily to the
expansion of AMR Services and Americas Ground Services.






INFLATION

Adjustment of historical cost data to reflect the impact of general inflation
and specific price changes would worsen AMR's operating results, principally
because of the increased depreciation and amortization resulting from the
replacement, at current cost, of equipment and property with assets that have
the same service potential.  However, because AMR's monetary liabilities exceed
monetary assets, the worsened operating results would be partially offset by a
decrease in the real value of the net amounts owed.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Operating activities provided net cash of $2.2 billion in 1995, $1.6 billion in
1994 and $1.4 billion in 1993.  The $576 million increase from 1994 to 1995
resulted from an increase in net income before non-cash restructuring charges
and provisions for losses of approximately $210 million combined with the
timing of cash payments near year-end.  Capital expenditures in 1995 totaled
$928 million, compared to $1.1 billion in 1994 and $2.1 billion in 1993, and
included the acquisition of six Boeing 757-200s and four Boeing 767-300
Extended Range aircraft by American and the acquisition of five Super ATR
turboprop aircraft by AMR Leasing.  In addition to the purchase of new aircraft
by American, sixteen Boeing 727 aircraft, eight formerly recorded as capital
leased assets, and eight formerly under operating leases, were purchased upon
the expiration of their lease terms.  These capital expenditures, as well as
the expansion of certain airport facilities, were funded primarily with
internally generated cash.

CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

FIRM DELIVERIES   At December 31, 1995, AMR had firm orders and payments
remaining of approximately $100 million for four Boeing 757-200 aircraft, all
of which are to be delivered in 1996.

OTHER   The Company also has authorized capital expenditures in 1996 of
approximately $350 million for aircraft modifications, computer equipment,
renovations of, and additions to, airport and office facilities and various
other equipment and assets.

      AMR intends to finance its capital asset acquisitions through the use of
internally generated funds.  At March 1, 1996, no borrowings were outstanding
under American's credit facility and approximately $1.0 billion was available
under the facility.

      AMR continually reviews its need for additional aircraft and ground
properties and makes investments based on return-on-investment analyses and
both short-term and long-term profitability forecasts.

AIRCRAFT OPTIONS   In addition to aircraft on firm order at December 31, 1995,
American has 80 jet aircraft available on option - five McDonnell Douglas
MD-11s and 75 Fokker 100s.  The Company also has 62 turboprop aircraft
available on option - 42 Super ATRs, 10 Saab 2000s and 10 ATR 42s.

OTHER INFORMATION

WORKING CAPITAL   AMR (principally American Airlines) historically operates
with a working capital deficit as do most other airline companies.  The
existence of such a deficit has not in the past impaired the Company's ability
to meet its obligations as they become due and is not expected to do so in the
future.

DEFERRED TAX ASSETS   As of December 31, 1995, the Company had deferred tax
assets aggregating approximately $2.7 billion, including approximately $443
million of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.  The Company believes
substantially all the deferred tax assets will be realized through reversal of
existing taxable temporary differences.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   Subsidiaries of AMR have been notified of potential
liability with regard to several environmental cleanup sites.  At sites where
remedial litigation has commenced, potential liability is joint and several.
AMR's alleged volumetric contributions at the sites are minimal.  AMR does not
expect these matters, individually or collectively, to have a significant
impact on its financial position or liquidity.  Additional information is
included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.






DISCOUNT RATE   Due to the decrease in interest rates during 1995, the discount
rate used to determine the Company's pension obligations as of December 31,
1995 and the related expense for 1996 has been decreased.  The Company expects
the increase in 1996 pension expense as a result of the change in the discount
rate to be more than offset by the impact of appreciation in the market value
of pension plan assets experienced during 1995.

OUTLOOK FOR 1996

AMR's improved financial performance in 1995 reflects the positive effects of
the Transition Plan the Company began implementing in the early 1990s.  The
core tenets of the plan are to strengthen the airline wherever possible, to
withdraw from markets in which the airline cannot compete effectively, and to
grow AMR's profitable non-airline businesses.

AIRLINE GROUP   For the Airline Group, improved performance was driven in part
by the strong economy, low jet fuel prices and a more stable pricing
environment attributable to the modest level of industry capacity growth.

      AMR continued its effort to find the most productive use for each of its
aircraft.  During 1995, the Company made major changes to both its jet and
turboprop schedules.  Resources were reallocated to longer flights and
short-haul flying was reduced.  The result was an increase in plane miles per
jet aircraft of more than four percent.

      Another 1995 initiative was to increase the number of flights between
major business centers such as New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Dallas/Fort
Worth.  In many business markets, American now offers a dozen or more flights
per day.  Conversely, the airline reduced its operations in Raleigh/Durham and
Nashville, where, despite its best efforts, American had been unable to earn a
satisfactory return.  Jet service was also eliminated from 29 other city pairs.
In many cases, jet service was replaced with turboprop service from American
Eagle, American's regional airline affiliate.

      On the international front, American increased the scope of its service
to Latin America and the United Kingdom, and took advantage of the new U.S. -
Canadian bilateral agreement to open service on several new Canadian routes.

      Alliances with foreign carriers have become an increasingly prominent
part of American's international endeavors.  The new aviation accord with
Canada cleared the way for a wide-ranging code-sharing agreement with Canadian
Airlines.  Implemented in phases, this arrangement is one of the industry's
largest, and has already generated a great deal of revenue for both airlines.

      Sustaining American's strong revenue performance is critically important
to AMR because the airline's costs remain uncompetitively high.  Fortunately,
American did make some progress on the cost front in 1995.  The airline
substantially reduced distribution expenses by capping travel agency
commissions at $50 per round-trip for domestic travel, developed new ways to
lower food costs, and cut costs in many other areas as it sought to trim
expenses without sacrificing quality.

      Cost initiatives in 1995 also included initial work on a ticketless
travel product which, when combined with devices to speed aircraft boarding,
will streamline and facilitate customers' airport experience.  The Company
expects this program, which American will begin implementing in mid-1996, to
allow airport employees to spend less time making computer entries and more
time serving customers.

      Despite these efforts, American will not have the fully-competitive cost
structure it needs until it solves its labor cost problem.  In this area, as
well, the airline made some progress in 1995.  First, the Company negotiated a
new six-year agreement with the Transport Workers Union, which is expected to
save approximately $65 million in 1996, with additional savings in the years
beyond.

      Second, further progress was made on the restructuring of American's
airport staffing which began in 1994.  American has now outsourced all
passenger handling functions at nearly 30 of its smaller stations and many of
its






less specialized customer service functions at most other cities.  These
efforts are expected to ultimately save approximately $80 million annually when
steady state is achieved.

      Third, the Company completed its "Reinventing Headquarters" program.
This effort is expected to reduce annual headquarters costs by $75 million in
total, about $40 million of which was realized in 1995.

      Finally, the long-running arbitration with American's flight attendant
union -- the Association of Professional Flight Attendants -- reached its
conclusion in October.  Although the arbitrators' decision provided pay
increases for flight attendants, it also gave the Company the right to
implement the most significant productivity improvements it was seeking.

      These labor developments saved the airline some money in 1995, and will
help more in 1996 and in the years beyond.  However, until it makes further
progress, particularly with the union that represents American's pilots -- the
Allied Pilots Association (APA) -- the airline will be unable to reduce its
costs to a fully competitive level.  Despite American's deteriorating cost
position versus many of its major competitors, the airline has been unable to
make substantive progress to date with the APA on this issue.

      As long as the airline's cost structure prevents it from earning a
satisfactory return on new aircraft investments, it will not make sense for
American to purchase additional aircraft.

      With no immediate plans to grow its fleet, American has developed an
alternative plan to cover the capacity of the 12 McDonnell Douglas MD-11s it
agreed to sell to Federal Express in 1995.  Delivery of the MD-11s began in
early 1996 and will continue through 1999.  As the MD-11s are delivered to
Federal Express, American will replace them by reconfiguring some of the Airbus
A300s now flying in the Caribbean for use on its shorter trans-Atlantic routes.

      The A300s, in turn, will be replaced by Boeing 727s the airline had
previously planned to retire in 1995.  This approach will allow American to
simultaneously complete the Federal Express transaction and sustain both its
European and Caribbean route structures without acquiring new aircraft.

      Overall, the 1996 outlook for the Airline Group is favorable.  On the
revenue side, many of 1995's favorable trends are expected to continue.
Overall industry capacity is expected to grow only modestly and, assuming the
U.S.  economy remains reasonably healthy, demand should keep pace.

      However, the pressure to reduce costs will continue.  The Airline Group
should see some progress in 1996, due in part to the fact that both the
American and American Eagle schedules should be much more stable in 1996 than
they were in 1995.  Also, American's introduction of its version of electronic
ticketing, coupled with an aggressive program of airport automation will, in
the latter part of 1996 and in the years beyond, enable the airline to further
increase the productivity of its agent workforce while simultaneously saving
money in its internal operations.

      The Airline Group will also have the benefit in 1996 of the full-year
effect of the numerous changes made in 1995, which will favorably affect food
and beverage costs, distribution expenses and a host of individually smaller
items.

      Taken together, the 1995 initiatives and those identified for 1996 are
expected to generate non-labor expense savings, and by improving the
productivity of most work groups, will impact, to some degree, labor costs as
well.

      Given the inherent volatility of fuel prices, anticipating the impact of
fuel expense in 1996 is very difficult.  Compounding this is the 4.3 cents per
gallon fuel tax on commercial aviation jet fuel for use in domestic operations,
which the airline was exempt from until October 1, 1995.  On this date, the
exemption expired and the resulting tax is scheduled to continue, although fuel
tax exemption legislation is pending.  American estimates the resulting annual
increase in fuel taxes will be approximately $80 million.

      Finally, during 1996, management will continue its efforts to persuade
the leadership of the APA that change is a prerequisite to a successful future
for American Airlines.






THE SABRE GROUP   The third objective of the Transition Plan is to grow the
Company's profitable non-airline businesses, and AMR was able to do so in 1995.
The SABRE Group, the largest of AMR's non-airline enterprises, continued to
compete successfully in the travel distribution and information technology
industries and recorded both improved earnings and strong margins in 1995.

      One of the primary goals of The SABRE Group is to ensure that SABRE
remains the premier global provider of travel distribution information
services.  Throughout the year, SABRE made important progress in a number of
international markets, continuing its expansion in Canada, Europe, Mexico,
Latin America and India and forming joint ventures with Japan Airlines' AXESS
Information Network as well as the Civil Aviation Administration of China.

      While SABRE's international growth is impressive, the travel distribution
industry is changing at an accelerating rate -- and The SABRE Group is changing
with it.  During 1995, the group came under increasing competitive pressure, as
new distribution channels and innovative technology began to divert attention
and resources away from more traditional travel distribution channels.  The
SABRE Group is moving quickly to preserve its industry-leading position.

      During 1995, the group announced a number of product enhancements and new
products designed to sustain its position as a leading distributor of travel
and travel-related products.  Additionally, SABRE Interactive, a new business
unit within The SABRE Group, was formed to help meet the challenges and
opportunities posed by the rapid development of, and growing public interest
in, consumer-direct travel distribution.

      Sustaining The SABRE Group's leadership position in the years to come
will require, in the short term, a significant amount of investment spending,
which will be reflected in the group's 1996 results.  Nonetheless, The SABRE
Group's record of profitable growth should continue.

      AMR plans to more fully develop and market its distinct information
technology expertise through The SABRE Group and continues to investigate
opportunities for further enhancing the value of its information technology
businesses.  In furtherance of these opportunities, AMR is taking preliminary
steps, such as obtaining certain consents, that will allow it to proceed
expeditiously should it decide that a reorganization of The SABRE Group into
one or more subsidiaries of AMR is desirable.  This reorganization, if
concluded, may involve the transfer to AMR, by means of a dividend, of
American's STIN, SCS, SDS and SABRE Interactive divisions.  A final decision to
proceed with a reorganization has not been made, however, and AMR could
determine that conducting the business activities of The SABRE Group within the
current corporate structure continues to be in the best interests of AMR's
shareholders.

MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP   The Management Services Group, whose activities are
various and diverse, is expected to have continued success in 1996.  Similar to
the Airline Group, the Management Services Group is expected to benefit from a
year of relative stability.

BALANCE SHEET OUTLOOK   In addition to making progress in each of its business
segments,  AMR also made some significant strides towards a stronger balance
sheet in 1995.  Since airline earnings, while improved, remain insufficient to
justify the purchase of new aircraft, AMR has opted to use much of its cash
flow to reduce the Company's outstanding debt.  Scheduled and early debt
retirement reduced AMR's debt and capital lease obligations by more than $1
billion in 1995, creating a healthier balance sheet and reducing future
interest expense.

      American has no immediate plans to acquire either growth or replacement
aircraft, and thus AMR's capital spending in 1996 is expected to total only
about $900 million.  The Company expects to generate surplus cash again in
1996.  The Company continues to evaluate uses for its surplus cash, which will
likely include the retirement or refinancing of debt and other fixed
obligations, as well as the repurchase, in the open market or otherwise, of a
significant amount of debt in excess of scheduled 1996 repayments.  The total
amount and type of debt retired, refinanced and repurchased will depend on
market conditions, American's cash position and other considerations during the
year.



ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS











REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
AMR Corporation


      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AMR
Corporation as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995.  Our audits also included
the financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 14(a).  These
financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AMR
Corporation at December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

      As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements,
effective January 1, 1995, the Company changed its method of accounting for the
impairment of long-lived assets to conform with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121.




                                        ERNST & YOUNG LLP


2121 San Jacinto
Dallas, Texas  75201
January 15, 1996






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 (in millions, except per share amounts)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Continued on next page.



AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
 (in millions, except per share amounts)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




- - ----------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 (in millions)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 (in millions, except shares and par value)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 (in millions)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.



AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 (in millions, except shares and per share amounts)
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.    SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company), its principal subsidiary,
American Airlines, Inc. (American), and its other wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.  Certain
amounts from prior years have been reclassified to conform with the 1995
presentation.

USE OF ESTIMATES   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

INVENTORIES   Spare parts, materials and supplies relating to flight equipment
are carried at average cost and are expensed when used in operations.
Allowances for obsolescence are provided, over the estimated useful life of the
related aircraft and engines, for spare parts expected to be on hand at the
date aircraft are retired from service.  These allowances are based on
management estimates, which are subject to change.

EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY   The provision for depreciation of operating equipment
and property is computed on the straight-line method applied to each unit of
property, except that spare assemblies are depreciated on a group basis.  The
depreciable lives and residual values used for the principal depreciable asset
classifications are:



   (1)   In 1991, American changed the estimated useful lives of its Boeing
         727-200 aircraft and engines from a common retirement date of December
         31, 1994, to projected retirement dates by aircraft, which results in
         an average depreciable life of approximately 21 years.
   (2)   Approximate common retirement date.

      Equipment and property under capital leases are amortized over the term
of the leases and such amortization is included in depreciation and
amortization.  Lease terms vary but are generally 10 to 25 years for aircraft
and 7 to 40 years for other leased equipment and property.

MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR COSTS   Maintenance and repair costs for owned and
leased flight equipment are charged to operating expense as incurred, except
engine overhaul costs incurred by AMR's regional carriers, which are accrued on
the basis of hours flown.






1.    SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

INTANGIBLE ASSETS   The Company continually evaluates intangible assets to
determine whether current events and circumstances warrant adjustment of the
carrying values or amortization periods.

      Route acquisition costs and airport operating and gate lease rights
represent the purchase price attributable to route authorities, airport
take-off and landing slots and airport gate leasehold rights acquired, and are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 to 40 years.

PASSENGER REVENUES   Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a
component of air traffic liability.  Revenue derived from ticket sales is
recognized at the time transportation is provided.  However, due to various
factors, including the complex pricing structure and interline agreements
throughout the industry, certain amounts are recognized in revenue using
estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount
of revenue to be recognized.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

ADVERTISING COSTS   The Company expenses the costs of advertising as incurred.
Advertising expense was $192 million, $201 million and $202 million for the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM   The estimated incremental cost of providing free
travel awards is accrued when such award levels are reached.  American sells
mileage credits to companies participating in its frequent flyer program.  A
portion of the revenue from the sale of mileage credits is deferred and
recognized over a period approximating the period during which the mileage
credits are used.

INCOME TAXES   AMR and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated federal
income tax return.  Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the financial reporting carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and the income tax amounts.

DEFERRED GAINS   Gains on the sale and leaseback of equipment and property are
deferred and amortized over the terms of the related leases as a reduction of
rent expense.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   Short-term investments, without regard to remaining
maturity at acquisition, are not considered as cash equivalents for purposes of
the statement of cash flows.

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE   Earnings (loss) per share computations are
based upon the earnings (loss) applicable to common shares and the average
number of shares of common stock outstanding and dilutive common stock
equivalents (stock options, warrants and deferred stock) outstanding.  The
convertible subordinated debentures and the convertible preferred stock are not
common stock equivalents.  The number of shares used in the computations of
primary and fully diluted earnings (loss) per common share for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, was 76.8 million, 76.2 million and 76.0
million, respectively.

      Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation for
the year ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the preferred stock
exchange is included in Note 5.

STOCK OPTIONS   The Company accounts for officer and key employee stock option
grants in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related
Interpretations.  Under APB 25, no compensation expense is recognized for stock
option grants if the exercise price of the Company's stock option grants is at
or above the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant.






2.    INVESTMENTS

      Short-term investments consisted of (in millions):


      Short-term investments at December 31, 1995, by contractual maturity
included (in millions):



      In addition, the Company has an investment in the cumulative mandatorily
redeemable convertible preferred stock of Canadian Airlines International.
This investment is recorded at its estimated fair value of $55 million and $137
million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The unrealized loss on
this investment was $137 million and $53 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.

      All investments were classified as available-for-sale and stated at fair
value.  Net unrealized gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, are reflected
as an adjustment to stockholders' equity.

3.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

      The Company has on order four Boeing 757-200 jet aircraft scheduled for
delivery in 1996.  Remaining payments for these aircraft and related equipment
will be approximately $100 million in 1996.  In addition to these commitments
for aircraft, the Company has authorized expenditures of approximately $850
million for aircraft modifications, renovations of, and additions to, airport
and office facilities and various other equipment and assets.  AMR expects to
spend approximately $350 million of this amount in 1996.

      In April 1995, American announced an agreement to sell 12 of its
McDonnell Douglas MD-11 aircraft to Federal Express Corporation (FedEx), with
delivery of the aircraft between 1996 and 1999.  In addition, American has the
option to sell its remaining seven MD-11 aircraft to FedEx with deliveries
between 2000 and 2002. The carrying value of the 12 aircraft American has
committed to sell was approximately $837 million as of December 31, 1995.
Included in depreciation expense are charges related to these aircraft which
totaled approximately $23 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.

      AMR and American have included an event risk covenant in approximately
$330 million of debentures and approximately $2.9 billion of lease agreements.
The covenant permits the holders of such instruments to receive a higher rate
of return (between 50 and 700 basis points above the stated rate) if a
designated event, as defined, should occur and the credit rating of the
debentures or the debt obligations underlying the lease agreements is
downgraded below certain levels.



3.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)

      Special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain
municipalities, primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities
which are leased by American.  In certain cases, the bond issue proceeds were
loaned to American and are included in long-term debt.  Certain bonds have
rates that are periodically reset and are remarketed by various agents.  In
certain circumstances, American may be required to purchase up to $437 million
of the special facility revenue bonds prior to maturity, in which case American
has the right to resell the bonds or to use the bonds to offset its lease or
debt obligations.  American may borrow the purchase price of these bonds under
standby letter-of- credit agreements. At American's option, these letters of
credit are secured by funds held by bond trustees and by approximately $429
million of short-term investments.

      The Miami International Airport Authority is currently remediating
various environmental conditions at the Miami International Airport (Airport)
and funding the remediation costs through landing fee revenues.  Some of the 
costs of the remdiation effort may be borne by carriers currently operating at 
the Airport, including American, through increased landing fees since certain 
of the potentially responsible parties are no longer in business. The future 
increase in landing fees may be material but cannot be reasonably estimated 
due to various factors, including the unknown extent of the remedial actions 
that may be required, the proportion of the cost that will ultimately be 
recovered from the responsible parties, and uncertainties regarding the 
environmental agencies that will ultimately supervise the remedial activities 
and the nature of that supervision.  The ultimate resolution is not, however, 
expected to have a significant impact on the financial position or the 
liquidity of AMR.

      American's collective bargaining agreement with the Allied Pilots
Association (APA) became amendable on August 31, 1994.  In January 1996, the
APA filed a petition with the National Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a
federal mediator.  A mediator has been appointed, and initial meetings have
been held between the APA and the NMB mediator and between American and the NMB
mediator.  Joint meetings began in March 1996.  The outcome of these
negotiations and the impact on the Company cannot be determined at this time.

4.    LEASES

      AMR's subsidiaries lease various types of equipment and property,
including aircraft, passenger terminals, equipment and various other
facilities.  The future minimum lease payments required under capital leases,
together with the present value of net minimum lease payments, and future
minimum lease payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31,
1995, were (in millions):



   (1)   Future minimum payments required under capital leases include $205
         million and $203 million guaranteed by AMR and American, respectively,
         relating to special facility revenue bonds issued by municipalities.
   (2)   Future minimum payments required under operating leases include $6.2
         billion guaranteed by AMR relating to special facility revenue bonds
         issued by municipalities.

      At December 31, 1995, the Company had 198 jet aircraft and 109 turboprop
aircraft under operating leases, and 74 jet aircraft and 63 turboprop aircraft
under capital leases.



4.    LEASES (CONTINUED)

      The aircraft leases can generally be renewed at rates based on fair
market value at the end of the lease term for one to five years.  Most aircraft
leases have purchase options at or near the end of the lease term at fair
market value, but generally not to exceed a stated percentage of the defined
lessor's cost of the aircraft.  Of the aircraft American has under operating
leases, 15 Boeing 767-300 Extended Range aircraft are cancelable upon 30 days'
notice during the initial 10-year lease term.  At the end of that term in 1998,
the leases can be renewed for periods ranging from 10 to 12 years.

      Rent expense, excluding landing fees, was $1.3 billion for 1995, 1994 and
1993.

5.    INDEBTEDNESS

      Long-term debt (excluding amounts maturing within one year) consisted of
(in millions):



      Maturities of long-term debt (including sinking fund requirements) for
the next five years are:  1996 - $228 million; 1997 - $388 million; 1998 - $432
million; 1999 - $63 million; 2000 - $57 million.

      Certain debt is secured by aircraft, engines, equipment and other assets
having a net book value of approximately $1.3 billion.

      In November 1994, AMR issued $1.02 billion in par value of convertible
subordinated debentures in exchange for 2.04 million shares of its outstanding
convertible preferred stock with a carrying value of $1.0 billion.  Each $1,000
debenture is convertible into common stock of AMR at a conversion price of $79
per share, equivalent to 12.658 shares per $1,000 debenture.  As a result of
the exchange, the Company recorded a $171 million non-cash increase in
additional paid-in capital, representing the difference in the fair value of
the new debentures and the carrying value of the preferred shares exchanged.
While this amount did not impact net earnings for the year ended December 31,
1994, it is included in the computation of earnings per share.

      During 1995, AMR repurchased and retired prior to maturity $378 million
in face value of long-term debt, net of sinking fund balances.  Cash from
operations provided the funding for the repurchases and retirements. In
addition, $616 million in outstanding principal of certain debt and lease
obligations was refinanced during 1995.  These transactions resulted in an
extraordinary loss of $45 million ($29 million after tax) for the year ended
December 31, 1995.

      During 1993, AMR repurchased and retired prior to maturity its zero
coupon subordinated convertible notes due 2006 and certain other long-term debt
with a total carrying value of $802 million.  The repurchases and retirements
resulted in an extraordinary loss of $21 million ($14 million after tax) for
the year ended December 31, 1993.  Additional borrowings and cash from
operations provided the funding for the repurchases and retirements.






5.    INDEBTEDNESS (CONTINUED)

      American has a $1.0 billion credit facility agreement which expires in
1999.  Interest on the agreement is calculated at floating rates based upon the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).  At January 15, 1996, no borrowings were
outstanding and $1.0 billion was available under this facility.

      Certain of AMR's debt agreements contain restrictive covenants, including
a limitation on the declaration of dividends on shares of capital stock.  At
December 31, 1995, under the terms of such agreements, all of AMR's retained
earnings were available for payment of dividends.  Certain of American's debt
and credit facility agreements also contain certain restrictive covenants,
including a cash flow coverage test, a minimum net worth requirement and
limitations on indebtedness and limitations on the declaration of dividends.
Certain of these restrictions could affect AMR's ability to pay dividends.  At
December 31, 1995, under the most restrictive provisions of those agreements,
approximately $857 million of American's retained earnings were available for
payment of dividends to AMR.

6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

      As part of the Company's risk management program, AMR uses a variety of
financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fuel swaps and currency
exchange agreements.  The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes.

      NOTIONAL AMOUNTS AND CREDIT EXPOSURES OF DERIVATIVES

      The notional amounts of derivative financial instruments summarized in
the tables which follow do not represent amounts exchanged between the parties
and, therefore, are not a measure of the Company's exposure resulting from its
use of derivatives.  The amounts exchanged are calculated based on the notional
amounts and other terms of the instruments, which relate to interest rates,
exchange rates or other indices.

      The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance
by counterparties to these financial instruments, but it does not expect any of
the counterparties to fail to meet its obligations.  The credit exposure
related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of
contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date, reduced by the
effects of master netting agreements.  To manage credit risks, the Company
selects counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single
counterparty under defined guidelines, and monitors the market position of the
program and its relative market position with each counterparty.  The Company
also maintains industry-standard security agreements with the majority of its
counterparties which may require the Company or the counterparty to post
collateral if the value of these instruments falls below certain mark-to-market
thresholds.  As of December 31, 1995, no collateral was required under these
agreements, and the Company does not expect to post collateral in the near
future.

      INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

      American enters into interest rate swap contracts to effectively convert
a portion of its fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate obligations.  These
agreements involve the exchange of amounts based on a floating interest rate
for amounts based on fixed interest rates over the life of the agreement
without an exchange of the notional amount upon which the payments are based.
The differential to be paid or received as interest rates change is accrued and
recognized as an adjustment of interest expense related to the obligation.  The
related amount payable to or receivable from counterparties is included in
current liabilities or assets.  The fair values of the swap agreements are not
recognized in the financial statements.  Gains and losses on terminations of
interest rate swap agreements are deferred as an adjustment to the carrying
amount of the outstanding obligation and amortized as an adjustment to interest
expense related to the obligation over the remaining term of the original
contract life of the terminated swap agreement.  In the event of the early
extinguishment of a designated obligation, any realized or unrealized gain or
loss from the swap would be recognized in income coincident with the
extinguishment.  Because American's operating results tend to be better in
economic cycles with relatively high interest rates and its capital investments
tend to be financed with long- term fixed-rate instruments, interest rate swaps
in which American pays the floating rate and receives the fixed rate are used
to reduce the impact of economic cycles on American's net income.






6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)


      The following table indicates the notional amounts and fair values of the
Company's interest rate swap agreements (in millions):



      The fair values represent the amount the Company would receive or pay to
terminate the agreements at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      At December 31, 1995, the weighted average remaining life of the interest
rate swap agreements in effect was 3.1 years.  The weighted average floating
rates and fixed rates on the contracts outstanding were:



      Floating rates are based primarily on LIBOR and may change significantly,
affecting future cash flows.  The net impact of the interest rate swap program
on interest expense was an increase of $18 million in 1995 and a decrease of
$14 million in 1994.  The impact on the Company's weighted-average borrowing
rate for the periods presented is immaterial.

      FUEL PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT

      American enters into fuel swap contracts to protect against increases in
jet fuel prices.  Under the agreements, American receives or makes payments
based on the difference between a fixed price and a variable price for certain
fuel commodities.  Gains and losses on fuel swap agreements are recognized as a
component of fuel expense when the underlying fuel being hedged is used.  At
December 31, 1995, American had agreements with broker-dealers to exchange
payments on approximately 295 million gallons of fuel products, which
represents approximately 11 percent of its expected 1996 fuel needs.  The
Company does not expect the fuel price hedging program to have a material
effect on liquidity.  The fair value of the Company's fuel swap agreements at
December 31, 1995, representing the amount the Company would receive to
terminate the agreements, was immaterial.






6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

      FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT

      To hedge against the risk of future currency exchange rate fluctuations
on certain debt and lease obligations and related interest payable in foreign
currencies, the Company has entered into various foreign currency exchange
agreements.  Changes in the value of the agreements due to exchange rate
fluctuations are offset by changes in the value of the foreign currency
denominated debt and lease obligations translated at the current exchange rate.
Discounts or premiums are accreted or amortized as an adjustment to interest
expense over the lives of the underlying debt or lease obligations.  The
related amounts due to or from counterparties are included in other liabilities
or other assets.  The net fair values of the Company's currency exchange
agreements, representing the amount AMR would receive to terminate the
agreements, were:



      The Swiss Franc agreement carries an exchange rate of 1.63 Francs per
U.S. dollar.  The exchange rates on the Japanese Yen agreements range from
66.50 to 137.26 Yen per U.S. dollar.

      To hedge against the risk of future exchange rate fluctuations on a
portion of American's foreign cash flows, the Company entered into various
currency put option agreements during 1995 on a number of foreign currencies.
The option contracts are denominated in the same foreign currency in which the
projected foreign cash flows are expected to be denominated.  These contracts
are designated and effective as hedges of probable quarterly foreign cash flows
for various periods through September 30, 1998, which otherwise would expose
the Company to foreign currency risk.  Realized gains on the currency put
option agreements are recognized as a component of passenger revenue.  At
December 31, 1995, the notional amount related to these options totaled
approximately $743 million and the fair value, representing the amount AMR
would receive to terminate the agreements, totaled approximately $16.5 million.

      FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      The fair values of the Company's long-term debt were estimated using
quoted market prices, where available.  For long-term debt not actively traded,
fair values were estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the
Company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing
arrangements.  The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's long-term
debt, including current maturities, were (in millions):








7.    INCOME TAXES

      The significant components of the income tax provision (benefit) were (in
millions):



      The income tax provision (benefit) includes a federal income tax
provision of $133 million and $108 million for the years ended December 31,
1995 and 1994, respectively, and a federal income tax benefit of $30 million
for the year ended December 31, 1993.

      The income tax provision (benefit) differed from amounts computed at the
statutory federal income tax rate as follows (in millions):







7.    INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

      The components of AMR's deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in
millions):



      At December 31, 1995, AMR had available for federal income tax purposes
approximately $443 million of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards
available for an indefinite period, and approximately $2.1 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards for regular tax purposes which expire as follows:
2007 - $851 million; 2008 - $838 million; and 2009 - $363 million.

8.    PREFERRED STOCK

      In 1993, AMR issued 2.2 million shares of 6% Series A cumulative
convertible preferred stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.1
billion.  At the holder's option, each preferred share is convertible into
6.3492 shares of common stock at any time.  At the Company's option after
February 1, 1996, the preferred shares are redeemable at specified redemption
prices.  In 1994, AMR exchanged $1.02 billion in face value of newly issued
6.125% convertible subordinated debentures due 2024 for 2.04 million of the
preferred shares.  See Note 5 for a more detailed description of the
debentures.






9.    STOCK AWARDS AND OPTIONS

      Under the 1988 Long Term Incentive Plan (1988 Plan), as amended in 1994,
officers and key employees of AMR and its subsidiaries may be granted stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, stock
purchase rights and/or other stock-based awards.  The total number of common
shares authorized for distribution under the 1988 Plan is 7,200,000 shares.  In
the event that additional shares of the Company's common stock are issued, 7.65
percent of such newly issued shares will be allocated to the 1988 Plan,
provided that the maximum number of shares which may be allocated to the 1988
Plan may not exceed the total number of authorized shares as of December 31,
1987. The 1988 Plan will terminate no later than May 18, 1998.  Options granted
are exercisable at the market value of the stock upon grant, generally becoming
exercisable in equal annual installments over one to five years following the
date of grant and expiring 10 years from the date of grant.  Stock appreciation
rights may be granted in tandem with options awarded.  As of January 1, 1996,
all outstanding stock appreciation rights were canceled, while the underlying
stock options remain in effect.

      Stock option activity was:


   (1)   At prices ranging from $39.6875 to $66.75 in 1995; $39.6875 to
         $64.1875 in 1994; and $39.6875 to $65.75 in 1993.
   (2)   Includes 20,500 and 21,000 options canceled upon exercise of stock
         appreciation rights for 1995 and 1993, respectively.

      The aggregate purchase price of outstanding options, number of
exercisable options outstanding and stock awards available for grant were:




9.    STOCK AWARDS AND OPTIONS (CONTINUED)

      Shares of deferred stock are awarded at no cost to officers and key
employees under the 1988 Plan's Career Equity Program and will be issued upon
the individual's retirement from AMR or, in certain circumstances, will vest on
a pro rata basis.  Deferred stock activity was:


      AMR has a restricted stock incentive plan, under which officers and key
employees were awarded shares of its common stock at no cost.  At December 31,
1993, all 250,000 shares authorized for issuance in connection with the plan
had been granted.  Vesting of the shares occurs generally over a five-year
period.

      A performance share plan was implemented in 1993 under the terms of which
shares of deferred stock are awarded at no cost to officers and key employees
under the 1988 Plan.  The shares vest over a three-year performance period
based upon AMR's ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted total assets.
Performance share activity was:


      There were 21.0 million shares of AMR's common stock at December 31, 1995
reserved for the issuance of stock upon the conversion of convertible preferred
stock and convertible subordinated debentures, the exercise of options and the
issuance of restricted stock and deferred stock.






10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

      Substantially all employees of American and employees of certain other
subsidiaries are eligible to participate in pension plans.  The defined benefit
plans provide benefits for participating employees based on years of service
and average compensation for a specified period of time before retirement.
Airline pilots and flight engineers also participate in defined contribution
plans for which Company contributions are determined as a percentage of
participant compensation.

      Total costs for all pension plans were (in millions):



   (1)   In late 1995 and 1994, AMR offered early retirement programs to select
         groups of employees as part of its restructuring efforts.  In
         accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 88,
         "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined
         Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits", AMR recognized
         additional pension expense of $220 million and $154 million associated
         with these programs in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Of these amounts,
         $118 million and $120 million were for special termination benefits
         and $102 million and $34 million were for the actuarial losses
         resulting from the early retirements for 1995 and 1994, respectively.



10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

      The funded status and actuarial present value of benefit obligations of
the defined benefit plans were (in millions):



    (1)  AMR's funding policy is to make contributions equal to, or in excess
         of, the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income 
         Security Act of 1974.
        
      Plan assets consist primarily of domestic and foreign government and
corporate debt securities, marketable equity securities, and money market and
mutual fund shares, of which approximately $119 million and $141 million of
plan assets at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively, were invested in
shares of mutual funds managed by a subsidiary of AMR.

      The projected benefit obligation was calculated using weighted average
discount rates of 7.25% and 8.75% at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively;
rates of increase for compensation of 4.20% and 4.40% at December 31, 1995 and
1994, respectively; and the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table.  The weighted
average expected long-term rate of return on assets was 9.50% in 1995 and 1994,
and 10.50% in 1993.  The vested benefit obligation and plan assets at fair
value at December 31, 1995, for plans whose benefits are guaranteed by the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation were $4.1 billion and $4.5 billion,
respectively.



10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

      In addition to pension benefits, other postretirement benefits, including
certain health care and life insurance benefits, are also provided to retired
employees.  The amount of health care benefits is limited to lifetime maximums
as outlined in the plan.  Substantially all employees of American and employees
of certain other subsidiaries may become eligible for these benefits if they
satisfy eligibility requirements during their working lives.

      Certain employee groups make contributions toward funding a portion of
their retiree health care benefits during their working lives.  AMR funds
benefits as incurred and began, effective January 1993, to match employee
prefunding.

      Net other postretirement benefit cost was (in millions):



      In addition to net other postretirement benefit cost, in late 1995 and
1994, AMR offered early retirement programs to select groups of employees as
part of its restructuring efforts.  In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other than Pensions," AMR recognized additional other postretirement
benefit expense of $93 million and $71 million associated with these programs
in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Of these amounts, $26 million and $43 million
were for special termination benefits and $67 million and $28 million were for
the net actuarial losses resulting from the early retirements for 1995 and
1994, respectively.

      The funded status of the plan, reconciled to the accrued other
postretirement benefit cost recognized in AMR's balance sheet, was (in
millions):







10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

      Plan assets consist primarily of shares of a mutual fund managed by a
      subsidiary of AMR.

      For 1995 and 1994, future benefit costs were estimated assuming per
capita cost of covered medical benefits would increase at an eight and nine
percent annual rate, respectively, decreasing gradually to a four percent
annual growth rate in 2000 and thereafter.  A one percent increase in this
annual trend rate would have increased the accumulated other postretirement
benefit obligation at December 31, 1995, by approximately $128 million and 1995
other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $18 million.  The weighted
average discount rate used in estimating the accumulated other postretirement
benefit obligation was 7.25% and 8.75% at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.

11.   RESTRUCTURING COSTS

      In 1995 and 1994, the Company recorded $533 million and $278 million,
respectively, for restructuring costs which included (in millions):




      In 1995, approximately 2,100 mechanics and fleet service clerks and 300
flight attendants elected early retirement under programs offered in
conjunction with renegotiated union labor contracts, and the majority of these
employees will leave the Company's workforce during 1996.  The Company recorded
restructuring costs of $332 million in 1995 related to these early retirement
programs.  A large portion of the funding for the programs was done in 1995.
The remaining cash payments associated with these programs will be expended as
required for funding the appropriate pension and other postretirement benefit
plans in future years.






11.   RESTRUCTURING COSTS (CONTINUED)

      The aircraft portion of the 1995 restructuring costs includes a $145
million provision related to the writedown of certain McDonnell Douglas DC-10
aircraft.  Effective January 1, 1995, AMR adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," which requires impairment
losses to be recorded on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators
of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be
generated by those assets are less than the assets' carrying amount.  In 1995,
the Company evaluated its fleet operating plan with respect to the DC-10-10
fleet and, as a result, believes that the estimated future cash flows expected
to be generated by these aircraft will not be sufficient to recover their net
book value.  Management estimated the undiscounted future cash flows utilizing
models used by the Company in making fleet and scheduling decisions.  As a
result of this analysis, the Company determined that a writedown of the
DC-10-10 aircraft to the net present value of their estimated discounted future
cash flows was warranted, which resulted in a $112 million charge.  In
addition, the Company recorded a $33 million charge to reflect a diminution in
the estimated market value of certain DC-10 aircraft previously grounded by the
Company.  No cash costs have been incurred or are expected as a result of these
DC-10 writedowns.  The writedowns are expected to reduce 1996 depreciation
expense by approximately $19 million.

      Also included in the aircraft restructuring costs is a $48 million charge
related to the planned early retirement in 1996 of certain turboprop aircraft
operated by AMR's regional carriers.  The charge relates primarily to future
lease commitments on these aircraft past the dates they will be removed from
service and writedown of related inventory to its estimated fair value.  Cash
payments on the leases will occur over the remaining lease terms.

      In 1994, approximately 1,700 agents and 600 management employees elected
early retirement under programs offered to select groups of employees and left
the Company's workforce during 1995.  The Company recorded restructuring costs
of $225 million in 1994 related to these early retirement programs.  A large
portion of the funding for these programs was done in 1994.  The remaining cash
payments associated with these programs will be expended as required for
funding the appropriate pension and other postretirement benefit plans in
future years.

      The $28 million severance provision recorded in 1994 was for additional
workforce reductions affecting approximately 2,300 agent and management
personnel as a result of scheduled service reductions and improved
administrative efficiencies.  Cash outlays for severance payments in 1995
totaled approximately $22 million, with the remaining $6 million expected to
occur during 1996.

      The remaining $25 million included in the 1994 restructuring costs
represents provisions for excess leased facilities and other restructuring
activities.  Cash outlays are estimated to be approximately $18 million, of
which approximately $3 million occurred in 1995.

12.   REVENUE AND OTHER EXPENSE ITEMS

      During 1994, the Company changed its estimate of the usage patterns of
miles awarded by participating companies in American's AAdvantage frequent
flyer program.  The positive impact of the change in estimate on passenger
revenues for 1994 was $59 million.  Passenger revenues for 1993 include a $115
million positive adjustment resulting from a change in estimate relating to
certain earned passenger revenues.

      Miscellaneous - net in 1995 includes a $41 million charge related to the
loss of an aircraft operated by American.  Miscellaneous - net in 1994 includes
a $25 million charge related to the loss of two regional aircraft operated by
subsidiaries of AMR Eagle, Inc.  Miscellaneous - net in 1993 includes a
provision of $71 million for losses associated with a reservation system
project and resolution of related litigation.  Also included in 1993 is a $125
million charge related to the retirement of certain McDonnell Douglas DC-10
aircraft.






13.   FOREIGN OPERATIONS

      American conducts operations in various foreign countries.  American's
operating revenues from foreign operations were (in millions):


14.   SEGMENT INFORMATION

      AMR's operations fall within three industry segments:  the Airline Group,
The SABRE Group, and the Management Services Group.  For a description of each
of these groups, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis on pages 15 and
16.

      The following table presents selected financial data by industry segment
(in millions):





      Identifiable assets are gross assets used by a business segment,
including an allocated portion of assets used jointly by more than one business
segment.  General corporate and other assets not allocated to business segments
were $357 million, $372 million and $436 million at December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively, and consist primarily of income tax assets.






15.   SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

      Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information and non-cash activities
(in millions):



16.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

      Unaudited summarized financial data by quarter for 1995 and 1994 (in
millions, except per share amounts):


    (1)  Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation
         for the three months ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the
         preferred stock exchange is included in Note 5.
        


16.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (CONTINUED)

      Results for the fourth quarter of 1995 include $533 million in
restructuring costs, primarily representing the cost of early retirement
programs for Airline Group employees and provisions for the writedown of
certain DC-10 aircraft and the planned retirement of certain turboprop
aircraft.  Results for the fourth quarter of 1995 also include a $41 million
charge related to the loss of an aircraft operated by American.

      Results for the fourth quarter of 1994 include $278 million in
restructuring costs, primarily representing the cost of early retirement
programs and severance for Airline Group employees.  Results for the fourth
quarter of 1994 also include a $25 million charge related to the loss of two
regional aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle, Inc.  During the
second quarter of 1994, the Company changed its estimate of the usage patterns
of miles awarded by participating companies in American's AAdvantage frequent
flyer program.  The positive impact of the change in estimate on revenues for
the second, third and fourth quarters of 1994 was $35 million, $14 million, and
$10 million, respectively, as compared to the same quarters in 1993.






ITEM 9.      DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 15, 1996.  Information concerning
the executive officers is included in Part I of this report on page 12.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 15, 1996.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 15, 1996.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 15, 1996.


                                    PART IV
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   (1)        The financial statements listed in the accompanying index to
                 financial statements and schedules are filed as part of this
                 report.

      (2)        The schedules listed in the accompanying index to financial
                 statements and schedules are filed as part of this report.

      (3)        Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
                 (Where the amount of securities authorized to be issued under
                 any of AMR's long-term debt agreements does not exceed 10
                 percent of AMR's assets, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Item
                 601 of Regulation S-K, in lieu of filing such as an exhibit,
                 AMR hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a
                 copy of any agreement with respect to such long-term debt.)

             EXHIBIT

                 3(a)     Composite of the Certificate of Incorporation of AMR,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1982, file number 1-8400.

                 3(b)     Amended Bylaws of AMR, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 3(b) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1990, file number 1-8400.






                 10(a)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 12, 1979,
                          between American and the Boeing Company, relating to
                          the purchase of Boeing Model 767-323 aircraft,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)(3) to
                          American's Registration Statement No. 2-76709.

                 10(b)    Description of American's Split Dollar Insurance
                          Program, dated December 28, 1977, incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 10(c)(1) to American's
                          Registration Statement No. 2-76709.

                 10(c)    American's 1992 Incentive Compensation Plan
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,   
                          1991, file marker 1-8400.
        
                 10(d)    1979 American Airlines (AMR) Stock Option Plan, as
                          amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
                          to American's report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                          December 31, 1982, file number 1-8400.

                 10(e)    1979 American Airlines (AMR) Stock Option Plan, as
                          amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)
                          to American's report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                          December 31, 1982, file number 1-8400.

                 10(f)    Form of Stock Option Agreement for Corporate Officers
                          under the 1979 American Airlines (AMR) Stock Option
                          Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)(5)
                          to American's Registration Statement No. 2-76709.

                 10(g)    Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1974 and
                          1979 American Airlines (AMR) Stock Option Plans,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)(6) to
                          American's Registration Statement No.  2-76709.

                 10(h)    Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated April 14,
                          1973, as amended March 1, 1975, between American and
                          Robert L. Crandall, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(c)(7) to American's Registration Statement
                          No. 2-76709.

                 10(i)    Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated October 18,
                          1972, as amended March 1, 1975, between American and
                          Gene E. Overbeck, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(c)(9) to American's Registration Statement
                          No. 2-76709.

                 10(j)    Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated June 3, 1970,
                          between American and Francis H. Burr, incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 11(d) to American's Registration
                          Statement No. 2-39380.

                 10(k)    Description of informal arrangement relating to
                          deferral of payment of directors' fees, incorporated
                          by reference to Exhibit 10(c)(11) to American's
                          Registration Statement No. 2- 76709.

                 10(l)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 29, 1984,
                          between American and the McDonnell Douglas
                          Corporation, relative to the purchase of McDonnell
                          Douglas Super 80 aircraft, incorporated by reference
                          to Exhibit 10(l) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1983, file number 1-8400.

                 10(m)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 27, 1983,
                          between American and the McDonnell Douglas
                          Corporation, relative to the purchase of McDonnell
                          Douglas Super 80 aircraft, incorporated by reference
                          to Exhibit 4(a)(8) to American's Registration
                          Statement No. 2-84905.






                 10(n)    AMR Corporation Restricted Stock Incentive Plan,
                          adopted May 15, 1985, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(n) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1985, file number 1-8400.

                 10(o)    AMR Corporation Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                          Agreement, adopted February 13, 1986, incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 10(o) to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985, file
                          number 1-8400.

                 10(p)    Form of Executive's Termination Benefits Agreement
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1985, file number 1-8400.

                 10(q)    Amendment, dated June 4, 1986, to Purchase Agreement
                          in Exhibit 10(l) above, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(q) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1986, file number 1-8400.

                 10(r)    Acquisition Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1987,
                          between American and Airbus Industrie relative to the
                          lease of Airbus A300-600R aircraft, incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 10(r) to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986, file
                          number 1-8400.

                 10(s)    Acquisition Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1987,
                          between American and the Boeing Company relative to
                          the lease of Boeing 767-323ER aircraft, incorporated
                          by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986, file
                          number 1-8400.

                 10(t)    AMR Corporation 1988 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1988, file number 1-8400.

                 10(u)    Acquisition Agreement, dated as of July 21, 1988,
                          between American and the Boeing Company relative to
                          the purchase of Boeing Model 757-223 aircraft,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1988, file number 1-8400.

                 10(v)    Acquisition Agreement, dated as of February 4, 1989,
                          among American and Delta Airlines, Inc.  and others
                          relative to operation of a computerized reservations
                          system incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to
                          AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                          31, 1988, file number 1-8400.

                 10(w)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 5, 1989, between
                          American and the Boeing Company relative to the
                          purchase of Boeing 757-223 aircraft, incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 10(w) to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, file
                          number 1-8400.

                 10(x)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 9, 1989, between
                          American and Fokker Aircraft U. S. A., Inc. relative
                          to the purchase of Fokker 100 aircraft, incorporated
                          by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, file
                          number 1-8400.






                 10(y)    Agreement for Sale and Purchase, dated as of June 12,
                          1989, between AMR Leasing Corporation and SAAB
                          Aircraft of America, Inc. relative to the purchase of
                          Saab 340B aircraft, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(y) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(z)    Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1989,
                          between American and the Boeing Company relative to
                          the purchase of Boeing 767-323ER aircraft,
                          incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(aa)   Lease Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1989, between
                          AMR Leasing Corporation and British Aerospace, Inc.
                          relative to the lease of Jetstream Model 3201
                          aircraft, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa)
                          to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                          December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(bb)   Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 3, 1989,
                          between American and the McDonnell Douglas
                          Corporation relative to the purchase of MD-11
                          aircraft, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(bb)
                          to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                          December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(cc)   Amendment, dated as of August 3, 1989, to the
                          Purchase Agreement in Exhibit 10(l) above,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(dd)   Amendment, dated as of August 11, 1989, to AMR's
                          Preferred Stock Purchase Rights Agreement in Exhibit
                          10(o) above, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          10(dd) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(ee)   Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 25, 1989,
                          between American and AVSA, S. A. R. L.  relative to
                          the purchase of Airbus A300-600R aircraft,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(ff)   Amendment, dated as of November 16, 1989, to
                          Employment Agreement among AMR, American Airlines and
                          Robert L. Crandall, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(ff) to AMR's report on Form 10- K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(gg)   Directors Stock Equivalent Purchase Plan,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(gg) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(hh)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and Edward A.  Brennan,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(hh) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(ii)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and Thomas S.  Carroll,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.






                 10(jj)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and Antonio Luis Ferre,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(jj) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(kk)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and John D. Leitch,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(kk) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(ll)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and Charles H.  Pistor, Jr.,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ll) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(mm)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of January
                          31, 1990, between AMR and Edward O.  Vetter,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(mm) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(nn)   Amendment, dated as of February 1, 1990, to the
                          Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated December 19,
                          1984, between AMR and Charles H. Pistor, Jr.,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(nn) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(oo)   Management Severance Allowance, dated as of February
                          23, 1990, for levels 1-4 employees of American
                          Airlines, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          10(oo) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(pp)   Management Severance Allowance, dated as of February
                          23, 1990, for level 5 and above employees of American
                          Airlines, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          10(pp) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended December 31, 1989, file number 1-8400.

                 10(qq)   Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 25, 1990,
                          between AMR Leasing Corporation and Avions de
                          Transport Regional relative to the purchase of ATR 42
                          and Super ATR aircraft, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(qq) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1990, file number 1-8400.

                 10(rr)   Form of Stock Option Agreement for Corporate Officers
                          under the AMR 1988 Long-Term Incentive Plan,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(rr) to AMR's
                          report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                          1990, file number 1-8400.

                 10(ss)   Form of Career Equity Program Deferred Stock Award
                          Agreement under the AMR 1988 Long-Term Incentive
                          Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ss) to
                          AMR's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                          31, 1990, file number 1-8400.

                 10(tt)   Amendment, dated as of December 3, 1990, to
                          Employment Agreement among AMR, American Airlines and
                          Robert L. Crandall incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit 10(tt) to AMR's report on Form 10-K for the
                          year ended December 31, 1990, file number 1-8400.

                 10(uu)   Amendment, dated as of May 1, 1992, to Employment
                          Agreement among AMR, American Airlines and Robert L.
                          Crandall incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(uu)
                          to AMR's report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                          June 30,  1992, file number 1-8400.

                 10(vv)   Irrevocable Executive Trust Agreement, dated as of
                          May 1, 1992, between AMR and Wachovia Bank of North
                          Carolina N.A.






                 10(ww)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of December
                          23, 1992, between AMR and Howard P.  Allen.

                 10(xx)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          5, 1993, between AMR and Charles T.  Fisher, III.

                 10(yy)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          10, 1993, between AMR and Edward O.  Vetter.

                 10(zz)   Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of March 8,
                          1993, between AMR and John D. Leitch.

                 10(aaa)  Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement, dated as of
                          February 13, 1986, between AMR Corporation and First
                          Chicago Trust Company of New York.

                 10(bbb)  Form of Guaranty to Career Equity Program under the
                          AMR 1988 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

                 10(ccc)  Amendment, dated as of July 26, 1993, to Career
                          Equity Program Deferred Stock Award Agreements.

                 10(ddd)  Second Amendment, dated as of July 26, 1993, to
                          Career Equity Program Deferred Stock Award
                          Agreements.

                 10(eee)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          10, 1994, between AMR and Charles T.  Fisher, III.

                 10(fff)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          11, 1994, between AMR and Howard P.  Allen.

                 10(ggg)  American Airlines, Inc. 1995 Incentive Compensation
                          Plan for Officers and Key Employees.

                 10(hhh)  American Airlines , Inc. 1995 Employee Profit Sharing
                          Plan.

                 10(iii)  Amendment to AMR's 1988 Long-term Incentive Plan
                          dated May 18, 1994, incorporated by reference to
                          Exhibit A to AMR's definitive proxy statement with
                          respect to the annual meeting of stockholders held on
                          May 18, 1994.

                 10(jjj)  Directors Stock Incentive Plan dated May 18, 1994,
                          incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to AMR's
                          definitive proxy statement with respect to the annual
                          meeting of stockholders held on May 18, 1994.

                 10(kkk)  Performance Share Program for the years 1993 to 1995
                          under the 1988 Long-term Incentive Program.

                 10(lll)  Performance Share Program for the years 1994 to 1996
                          under the 1988 Long-term Incentive Program.






                 10(mmm)  American Airlines, Inc. Supplemental Executive
                          Retirement Program dated November 16, 1994.

                 10(nnn)  Current form of Career Equity Program Agreement.

                 10(ooo)  Performance Share Program for the years 1995 to 1997
                          under the 1988 Long-term Incentive Program.

                 10(ppp)  SABRE Group Performance Share Program for the years
                          1995 to 1997 under the 1988 Long-term Incentive
                          Program.

                 10(qqq)  American Airlines, Inc. 1996 Incentive Compensation
                          Plan for Officers and Key Employees.

                 10(rrr)  Aircraft Sales Agreement by and between American
                          Airlines, Inc. and Federal Express Corporation, dated
                          April 7, 1995.

                 10(sss)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of December
                          27, 1995, between AMR and Howard P.  Allen.

                 10(ttt)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          7, 1996, between AMR and Armando M.  Codina.

                 10(uuu)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          9, 1996, between AMR and Charles T.  Fisher, III.

                 10(vvv)  Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February
                          23, 1996, between AMR and Charles H.  Pistor, Jr.

                 11(a)    Computation of primary loss per share for the years
                          ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

                 11(b)    Computation of loss per share assuming full dilution
                          for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

                 19       The 1974 and 1979 American Airlines (AMR) Stock
                          Option plans as amended March 16, 1983, incorporated
                          by reference to Exhibit 19 to AMR's report on Form
                          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, file
                          number 1-8400.  Refer to Exhibits 10(d) and 10(e).

                 22       Significant subsidiaries of the registrant.

                 23       Consent of Independent Auditors appears on page 64
                          hereof.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K:

      None.






                                AMR CORPORATION
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
                   COVERED BY REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                  [ITEM 14(A)]




All other schedules are omitted since the required information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto, or since the required information is
either not present or not present in sufficient amounts.








                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements (Form
S-8 No. 2-68366), (Form S-8 No. 33-60725), (Form S-8 No. 33-60727), (Form S-3
No. 33-42027), (Form S-3 No. 33-46325), (Form S-3 No. 33-52121), and (Form S-4
No.  33-55191) of AMR Corporation, and in the related Prospectuses, of our
report dated January 15, 1996, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and schedules of AMR Corporation included in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 1995.



                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Dallas, Texas
March 20, 1996






                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                 (IN MILLIONS)









                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                                 (IN MILLIONS)









                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                 (IN MILLIONS)





(a) Transfer to Allowance for obsolescence of inventories.



PART I  -  EXHIBIT 11 (A) AMR CORPORATION
                COMPUTATION OF PRIMARY EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)






                                                          PART I  -  EXHIBIT 11 
                             (B) AMR CORPORATION
                   COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
                            ASSUMING FULL DILUTION
                   (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)







                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


AMR CORPORATION

 /s/ Robert L. Crandall
- - --------------------------------------------------
 Robert L. Crandall
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer)


 /s/ Gerard J. Arpey
- - --------------------------------------------------
 Gerard J. Arpey
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date: March 20, 1996

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates noted:
                                   
                           
                                   

Date: March 20, 1996






                               INDEX TO EXHIBIT

EXHIBIT                                                           
NUMBER                                 DESCRIPTION
- - -------                                -----------

       10(ooo)      Performance Share Program for the years 1995 to 1997 under
                    the 1988 Long-term Incentive Program.

       10(ppp)      SABRE Group Performance Share Program for the years 1995 to
                    1997 under the 1988 Long-term Incentive Program.

       10(qqq)      American Airlines, Inc. 1996 Incentive Compensation Plan
                    for Officers and Key Employees.

       10(rrr)      Aircraft Sales Agreement by and between American Airlines,
                    Inc. and Federal Express Corporation, dated April 7, 1995.

       10(sss)      Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of December 27,
                    1995, between AMR and Howard P. Allen.

       10(ttt)      Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February 7,
                    1996, between AMR and Armando M. Codina.

       10(uuu)      Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February 9,
                    1996, between AMR and Charles T. Fisher, III.

       10(vvv)      Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated as of February 23,
                    1996, between AMR and Charles H. Pistor, Jr.

       23           Consent of Independent Auditors appears on Page 64 hereof.

