
10-K405
FORM 10-K



================================================================================
                                      
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549
                                      
                                  FORM 10-K

[X]   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 [Fee Required] 
      For fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

[  ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 [No Fee Required]

Commission file number 1-8400.

                               AMR CORPORATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Delaware                                 75-1825172
----------------------------------------    -----------------------------------
      (State or other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    of incorporation or organization)             
                                                  
         4333 Amon Carter Blvd.                   
           Fort Worth, Texas                               76155
----------------------------------------    -----------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

 Registrant's telephone number, including area code        (817) 963-1234
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


            Title of each class             Name of exchange on which registered
----------------------------------------    ------------------------------------
Common stock, $1 par value per share                New York Stock Exchange 
5-1/4% Subordinated Debentures due 1998             New York Stock Exchange 
6-1/8% Convertible Subordinated Quarterly                                   
  Income Capital Securities due 2024                New York Stock Exchange 
6-1/4% Subordinated Debentures due 1996             New York Stock Exchange
8.10% Notes due 1998                                New York Stock Exchange
9.00% Debentures due 2016

 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:


                                     NONE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               (Title of Class)

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
 required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
 registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
 such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No    .
                                                     ---    ---

 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
 of Regulation S-K (Section  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
 and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in
 definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
 III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

 The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
 registrant as of March 1, 1995, was approximately $4,690,925,138.  As of March
 1, 1995, 75,966,399 shares of the registrant's common stock were outstanding.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


 Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from
 the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 17,
 1995.

================================================================================


                                     PART I
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) was incorporated in October 1982.  AMR's
principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc.  (American), was founded in 1934.
For financial reporting purposes, AMR's operations fall within three major
lines of business:  the Air Transportation Group (ATG), The SABRE Group and the
AMR Management Services Group.

AIR TRANSPORTATION GROUP

ATG consists primarily of American's Passenger and Cargo divisions and AMR
Eagle, Inc., a subsidiary of AMR.

AMERICAN'S PASSENGER DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled passenger
airlines in the world.  At the end of 1994, American provided scheduled jet
service to more than 170 destinations, primarily throughout North America, the
Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and the Pacific.

AMERICAN'S CARGO DIVISION is one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers
in the world.  The Cargo Division provides a full range of freight and mail
services to shippers throughout the airline's system.  In addition, through
cooperative agreements with other carriers, it has the ability to transport
shipments to virtually any country in the world.

AMR EAGLE, INC. owns the four regional airlines which operate as "American
Eagle" -- Flagship Airlines, Inc., Simmons Airlines, Inc., Executive Airlines,
Inc., and Wings West Airlines, Inc.  The American Eagle carriers provide
connecting turboprop service from seven of American's high-traffic cities to
smaller markets throughout the United States, the Bahamas and the Caribbean.

THE SABRE GROUP

AMR formed The SABRE Group in 1993 to capitalize on the synergies of combining
its information technology businesses under common management.  The SABRE Group
includes SABRE Travel Information Network (STIN), SABRE Computer Services
(SCS), SABRE Decision Technologies (SDT), and SABRE Interactive.

STIN markets SABRE -- one of the largest privately owned, real-time computer
systems in the world -- and provides travel distribution and information
services to more than 28,000 travel agencies in 74 countries on six continents.

SCS manages and maintains AMR's technology infrastructure. SCS provides
planning, installation and operation of data centers, voice and data
communications networks and hardware, as well as technology and architectural
planning to other AMR units and external customers.

SDT provides decision support systems, application software packages, systems
development and consulting services to other AMR units and to external
companies in the transportation, travel and other industries worldwide.

SABRE INTERACTIVE is a unit recently formed to investigate opportunities for
consumer distribution via personal computer, CD-ROM, interactive television,
cable and other media.






AMR MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP

The AMR Management Services Group consists of six AMR subsidiaries -- AMR
Services Corporation, AMR Leasing Corporation, Americas Ground Services, Inc.
(AGS), AMR Investment Services, Inc., AMR Training & Consulting Group, Inc.
(AMRTCG), and Airline Management Services, Inc. (AMS).

AMR SERVICES CORPORATION has several major operating divisions:  Domestic and
International Airline Services, AMR Combs and AMR Distribution Systems.  The
Airline Services divisions' main lines of business include airline ground and
cargo handling, cabin service and an array of other air transportation-related
services for carriers around the world.  AMR Combs provides corporate aviation
services through a network of 12 fixed-base operations in the United States and
Mexico.  It also is involved in a number of other related businesses, including
parts and aircraft sales and operation of the world's largest executive charter
service.  AMR Distribution Systems serves the logistics marketplace and
specializes in contract warehousing, trucking and multi-modal freight
forwarding services.

      Beginning January 1, 1995, two AMR units -- TeleService Resources (TSR)
and Data Management Services (DMS) -- which have been included in The SABRE
Group for financial reporting purposes in 1993 and 1994, became part of AMR
Services.  TSR markets and operates a hotel reservations system and provides
telemarketing and call management services.  DMS provides data and document
management services to American and to companies in the insurance, financial
services and transportation industries.

AMR LEASING CORPORATION, a financing subsidiary, leases regional aircraft to
subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.

AGS provides airline ground and cabin service handling at 11 locations in eight
countries in the Caribbean and Central and South America.  AGS was incorporated
in 1993.

AMR INVESTMENT SERVICES, INC. serves as an investment advisor to AMR and other
institutional investors.   It also manages the American AAdvantage Funds, which
have both institutional shareholders, including pension funds and bank and
trust companies, and individual shareholders.  As of December 31, 1994, AMR
Investment Services was responsible for management of approximately $11.2
billion in assets, including direct management of approximately $4.4 billion in
short-term investments.

AMRTCG provides specialized training, management and consulting services to
companies in the aviation and transportation industries worldwide.  AMRTCG was
formed in 1992.

AMS was formed in 1994 to manage the Company's service contracts with other
airlines such as the agreement to provide a variety of management, technical
and administrative services to Canadian Airlines International, Ltd. that the
Company signed in April 1994.

         In March 1995, AMR announced the results of a six-month study of the
Air Transportation Group's administrative functions.  The Company identified
$93 million in annual cost savings and began implementing organizational
changes which are expected to yield additional cost reductions.  Such
organizational changes will not materially impact the Company's business
segment financial reporting.

      Additional information regarding business segments is included in
Management's Discussion and Analysis on pages 15 through 26 and in Note 14 to
the consolidated financial statements.






ROUTES AND COMPETITION

AIR TRANSPORTATION   Service over almost all of the Air Transportation Group's
routes is highly competitive.  Currently, any carrier deemed fit by the U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger
service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions.  On most of
its routes, ATG competes with at least one, and usually more than one, major
domestic airline including:  America West Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta
Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Trans World Airlines, United
Airlines, and USAir.  ATG also competes with national, regional, all-cargo, and
charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground transportation.

      Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule
patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service.
American operates six hubs:  Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago O'Hare, Miami,
Nashville, Raleigh/Durham and San Juan, Puerto Rico.  In January 1995, American
announced schedule reductions for 1995 which will end the airline's hub
operations at Raleigh/Durham.  Delta Air Lines and United Airlines have large
hub operations at American's Dallas/Fort Worth and Chicago O'Hare hubs,
respectively.

      The American Eagle carriers increase the number of markets the Air
Transportation Group serves by providing connections to American at its hubs
and certain other major airports.  The American Eagle carriers -- Simmons
Airlines, Inc., Flagship Airlines, Inc., Wings West Airlines, Inc. and
Executive Airlines, Inc. -- serve smaller markets through Dallas/Fort Worth,
Chicago, Miami, Nashville, San Juan, Los Angeles and New York John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  American's competitors also own or have marketing
agreements with regional carriers which provide service at their major hubs.

      In addition to its extensive domestic service, American provides service
to and from cities in various other countries, primarily across North, Central
and South America and Europe.  In 1991, American added service to 20 cities in
15 countries in Latin America with the acquisition of route authorities from
Eastern Air Lines.  In 1992, American added service from several U.S. gateway
cities to London's Heathrow Airport with the acquisition of Trans World
Airlines' route authorities.  American's operating revenues from foreign
operations were approximately $4.3 billion in 1994, $3.9 billion in 1993 and
$3.7 billion in 1992.  Additional information about the Company's foreign
operations is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.

      Competition in international markets is generally subject to more
extensive government regulation than domestic markets.  In these markets,
American competes with foreign-investor owned carriers, national flag carriers
and U.S. carriers that have been granted authority to provide scheduled
passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations.
American's operating authority in these markets is subject to aviation
agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries, and in some cases,
fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and the relevant foreign
governments.  Because international air transportation is governed by bilateral
or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries
involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policy could result in
the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of such
route authorities, or otherwise affect American's international operations.
Bilateral relations between the U.S. and various foreign countries served by
American are currently being renegotiated.

      On all of its routes, the Air Transportation Group's pricing decisions
are affected by competition from other airlines, some of which have cost
structures significantly lower than American's and can therefore operate
profitably at lower fare levels.  American and its principal competitors use
inventory and yield management systems that permit them to vary the number of
discount seats offered on each flight in an effort to maximize revenues.

      The Air Transportation Group believes that it has several advantages
relative to its competition.  Its fleet is young, efficient and quiet.  It has
a comprehensive domestic and international route structure, anchored by
efficient hubs, which permit it to take full advantage of whatever traffic
growth occurs.  The Company believes American's AAdvantage frequent flyer
program, which is the largest program in the industry, and its superior service
also give it a competitive advantage.






      The major domestic carriers have some advantage over foreign competitors
in their ability to generate traffic from their extensive domestic route
systems.  In many cases, however, U.S. carriers are limited in their rights to
carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries.  Some
of American's foreign competitors are owned and subsidized by foreign
governments.  To improve their access to each others' markets, various U.S. and
foreign carriers -- including American -- have made substantial equity
investments in, or established marketing relationships with, other carriers.

COMPUTER RESERVATION SYSTEMS   The complexity of the various schedules and
fares offered by air carriers has fostered the development of electronic
distribution systems.  Travel agents and other subscribers access travel
information and book airline, hotel and car rental reservations and issue
airline tickets using these systems.  American developed the SABRE computer
reservation system (CRS), which is one of the largest CRSs in the world.
Competition among the CRS vendors is strong.  Services similar to those offered
through SABRE are offered by several air carriers and other companies in the
United States and abroad.

      The SABRE CRS has several advantages relative to its competition.  SABRE
ranks first in market share among travel agents in the U.S.  The SABRE CRS is
furthering its expansion into international markets and continues to be in the
forefront of technological innovation in the CRS industry.

REGULATION

GENERAL   The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (Act) and various other statutes
amending the Act, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and
freight transportation.  However, the DOT and the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air
carriers under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended.  The DOT maintains
jurisdiction over international route authorities and certain consumer
protection matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage
liability, and computer reservations systems.  The DOT issued certain rules
governing the CRS industry which became effective on December 7, 1992, and
expire on December 31, 1997.

      The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing
personnel, aircraft and security standards.  In addition, the FAA has
implemented a number of requirements that the Air Transportation Group is
incorporating into its maintenance program.  These matters relate to, among
other things, inspection and maintenance of aging aircraft, corrosion control,
collision avoidance and windshear detection.  Based on its current
implementation schedule, the Air Transportation Group expects to be in
compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods.

      The U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline antitrust
matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the
transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air
transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests
in the National Mediation Board certain regulatory powers with respect to
disputes between airlines and labor unions arising under collective bargaining
agreements.

FARES   Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without
governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by substantial price
competition.  The DOT maintains authority over international fares, rates and
charges.  International fares and rates are also subject to the jurisdiction of
the governments of the foreign countries which American serves.  While air
carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate
tariffs, many international markets are characterized by substantial
commissions, overrides, and discounts to travel agents, brokers and
wholesalers.

      Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on
ATG's financial results because ATG is generally required to match competitors'
fares to maintain passenger traffic.  During recent years, a number of new
low-cost airlines have entered the domestic market and several major airlines
have begun to implement efforts to lower their cost structures.  Further fare
reductions, domestic and international, may occur in the future.  If fare
reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic or changes in the
mix of traffic that improves yields, ATG's operating results will be negatively
impacted.






AIRPORT ACCESS   In 1968, the FAA issued a rule designating New York John F.
Kennedy, New York LaGuardia, Washington National, Chicago O'Hare and Newark
airports as high density traffic airports.  Newark was subsequently removed
from the high density airport classification.  The rule adopted hourly take-off
and landing slot allocations for each of these airports.  In 1993, the FAA
granted a permanent rule change allowing each commuter operator at O'Hare to
use 50 percent of its slots for jets having not more than 110 seats.
Currently, the FAA permits the purchasing, selling, leasing and trading of
these slots by airlines and others, subject to certain restrictions.  Certain
foreign airports, including London Heathrow, a major European destination for
American, also have slot allocations.

      The Air Transportation Group currently has sufficient slot authorizations
to operate its existing flights and has generally been able to obtain slots to
expand its operations and change its schedules.  There is no assurance,
however, that the Air Transportation Group will be able to obtain slots for
these purposes in the future, because, among other factors, slot allocations
are subject to changes in government policies.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   The Company is subject to various laws and government
regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in
the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact
on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the
Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act,
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act).  The Company is
also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have
been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company's
operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been
delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes.  Many
state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and
health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements.
As a part of its continuing safety, health and environmental program, the
Company has maintained compliance with such requirements without any material
adverse effect on its business.

      For purposes of noise standards, jet aircraft are rated by categories or
"stages."  The ANCA requires the phase-out by December 31, 1999, of Stage II
aircraft operations, subject to certain exceptions.  Under final regulations
issued by the FAA in 1991, air carriers are required to reduce, by modification
or retirement, the number of Stage II aircraft in their fleets 25 percent by
December 31, 1994; 50 percent by December 31, 1996; 75 percent by December 31,
1998, and 100 percent by December 31, 1999.  Alternatively, a carrier may
satisfy the regulations by operating a fleet that is at least 55 percent, 65
percent, 75 percent, and 100 percent Stage III by the dates set forth in the
preceding sentence, respectively.  At December 31, 1994, approximately 86
percent of American's active fleet was Stage III, the quietest and most fuel
efficient rating category.

      The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems
to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere
unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air
transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft
noise reduction programs, including the imposition of night-time curfews.  The
ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on Stage III
aircraft first effective after October 1990, and establishes a regulatory
notice and review process for local restrictions on Stage II aircraft first
proposed after October 1990.  While American has had sufficient scheduling
flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, American's
operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become
more restrictive or widespread.

      American has been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible
party (PRP) with respect to the following Superfund Sites:  Operating
Industries, Inc., California; Cannons, New Hampshire; Byron Barrel and Drum,
New York; Palmer PSC, Massachusetts; Frontier Chemical, New York and Duffy
Brothers, Massachusetts.  American has settled the Palmer PSC and Byron Barrel
and Drum matters, and all that remains to complete these matters are
administrative tasks.  American has signed a partial consent decree with
respect to Operating Industries, Inc.  With respect to the Operating
Industries, Inc., Palmer PSC, Frontier Chemical and Duffy Brothers sites,
American is one of several PRPs named at each site.  American's alleged waste
disposal although they are Superfund sites is minor compared to the other PRPs.

      American, along with most other tenants at Boston Logan International
Airport, has been notified under the Massachusetts State Superfund statute of a
claim for contribution by the Massachusetts Port Authority






(Massport).  Massport has claimed that American is responsible for past and
future remediation costs at the airport.  American is vigorously defending
against Massport's claim.

      American, along with most other tenants at the San Francisco
International Airport, has been ordered by the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board to engage in various studies of potential environmental
contamination at the airport and to undertake remedial measures, if necessary.

      AMR Combs Memphis, an AMR Services subsidiary, has been named a PRP at an
EPA Superfund Site in West Memphis, Arkansas.  AMR Combs Memphis' alleged
involvement in the site is minor relative to the other PRPs.

      Flagship Airlines, Inc., an AMR Eagle subsidiary, has been notified of
its potential liability under New York law at an inactive hazardous waste site
in Poughkeepsie, New York.

      AMR does not expect these matters, individually or collectively, to have
a material impact on its financial condition, operating results or cash flows.

LABOR

The airline business is labor intensive.  Approximately 82 percent of AMR's
employees work in the Air Transportation Group.  Wages, salaries and benefits
represented nearly 37 percent of AMR's consolidated operating expenses for the
year ended December 31, 1994.  To improve its competitive position, American
has undertaken various steps to reduce its unit labor costs, including
workforce reductions.

      The majority of American's employees are represented by labor unions and
covered by collective bargaining agreements.  American's relations with such
labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act.  Under this act, the
collective bargaining agreements among American and these organizations do not
expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party
wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other
party before the contract becomes amendable.  After receipt of such notice, the
parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached,
either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a
federal mediator.  If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may
determine, at any time, that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared,
the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties.  Either party may decline
to submit to arbitration.  If arbitration is rejected, a 30-day "cooling-off"
period commences, following which the labor organization may strike and the
airline may resort to "self-help," including the imposition of its proposed
amendments and the hiring of replacement workers.

      American's collective bargaining agreement with the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants became amendable on December 31, 1992.  The NMB
declared an impasse in the negotiations in September 1993, following a long
period of negotiation and mediation, and the parties entered into a 30-day
cooling off period, which ended without an agreement.  At the end of the
cooling off period, American imposed certain contract amendments as permitted
by law.  After the union staged a five-day strike against American in November
1993, the parties agreed to resolve the remaining issues through binding
arbitration.  The arbitration process is complex and will likely not be decided
for several months.  While the ultimate outcome is uncertain, the new contract
will likely result in higher unit labor costs in 1995 than in 1994.

      American's collective bargaining agreement with the Allied Pilots
Association became amendable on August 31, 1994.  American's collective
bargaining agreement with the Transport Workers Union became amendable March 1,
1995.

      A majority of the workforces at the four AMR Eagle carriers is
represented by labor unions and covered by a number of different collective
bargaining agreements.  Certain of these agreements are currently in
negotiation.  In addition, a proceeding is pending before the NMB in which the
issue is whether the four American Eagle carriers should be treated as a single
carrier for labor relations purposes.  If such a finding ultimately is made,
each unionized employee classification would have all members of all four
carriers represented for collective bargaining purposes as a single unit.  A
determination by the NMB is not likely before mid-1995.  The ultimate outcome
of this proceeding and its effect on costs is uncertain.






FUEL

The Air Transportation Group's operations are significantly affected by the
availability and price of jet fuel.  American's fuel costs and consumption for
the years 1990 through 1994 were:



      Based upon American's 1994 fuel consumption, a one-cent rise in the
average annual price-per-gallon of jet fuel would increase American's monthly
fuel costs by approximately $2.3 million, not considering the offsetting effect
of American's fuel cost hedging program.  AMR's fuel cost in 1994 decreased
13.9 percent over the prior year, primarily due to an 8.3 percent decrease in
American's average price per gallon and a 6.7 percent decrease in gallons
consumed by American.

      The impact of fuel price changes on the Company's competitors is
dependent upon various factors, including their hedging strategies.  However,
lower fuel prices may be offset by increased price competition and lower
revenues for all air carriers.  Conversely, there can be no assurance that
American will be able to pass fuel cost increases on to its customers by
increasing fares in the future.

      Most of American's fuel is purchased pursuant to contracts which, by
their terms, may be terminated upon short notice.  While American does not
anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, dependency on foreign
imports of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet
fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the
future availability of jet fuel.  If there were major reductions in the
availability of jet fuel, American's business would be adversely affected.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM

American established the AAdvantage frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to
develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued
patronage.  AAdvantage members earn mileage credits for flights on American,
American Eagle and certain other participating airlines, or by utilizing
services of other program participants, including hotels, car rental companies
and bank credit card issuers.  American sells mileage credits to the other
companies participating in the program.  American reserves the right to change
the AAdvantage program rules, regulations, travel awards and special offers at
any time.  American may initiate changes impacting, for example, participant
affiliations, rules for earning mileage credit, mileage levels and awards,
blackout dates and limited seating for travel awards, and the features of
special offers.  American reserves the right to end the AAdvantage program with
six months notice.

      Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel
on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, or for other travel
industry awards.  Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the
member may request an award certificate from American.  Award certificates may
be redeemed up to one year after issuance.  Most travel awards are subject to
blackout dates and capacity controlled seating.  All miles earned after July
1989 must be redeemed within three years or they expire.

      American accounts for its frequent flyer obligation on an accrual basis
using the incremental cost method.  American's frequent flyer liability is
accrued each time a member accumulates sufficient mileage in his or her account
to claim the lowest level of free travel award (20,000 miles prior to February
1, 1995; 25,000 miles thereafter) and such award is expected to be used for
free travel on American.  American includes fuel, food, and
reservations/ticketing costs, but not a contribution to overhead or profit, in
the calculation of incremental cost.  The cost for fuel is estimated based on
total fuel consumption tracked by various categories of markets, with an






amount allocated to each passenger.  Food costs are tracked by market category,
with an amount allocated to each passenger.  Reservation/ticketing costs are
based on the total number of passengers, including those traveling on free
awards, divided into American's total expense for these costs.  No accrual is
made for non-travel awards since the cost to American, if any, is de minimis.

      At December 31, 1994 and 1993, American estimated that approximately 4.5
million and 5.4 million free travel awards, respectively, were eligible for
redemption.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, American estimated that
approximately 3.6 million and 4.4 million free travel awards, respectively,
were expected to be redeemed for free travel on American. In making this
estimate, American has excluded mileage in inactive accounts, mileage related
to accounts that have not yet reached the lowest level of free travel award,
mileage that is not expected to ever be redeemed for free travel, and mileage
related to accounts that have reached the lowest level of free travel award but
are estimated based on historical data to be redeemed for discounts and
upgrades, free travel on participating airlines other than American, or
services other than free travel, for which American has no obligation to pay
the provider of those services.  The liability for the program mileage that has
reached the lowest level of free travel award and is expected to be redeemed
for free travel on American and deferred revenues for mileage sold to others
participating in the program was $329 million and $380 million, representing
6.7 percent and 8.6 percent of AMR's total current liabilities, at December 31,
1994 and 1993, respectively.

      The number of free travel awards used for travel on American during the
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, was approximately 2,198,000,
2,163,000, and 1,474,000, respectively, representing 8.5 percent, 9.5 percent
and 6.0 percent of total revenue passenger miles for each period, respectively.
American believes displacement of revenue passengers is insignificant given
American's load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory,
and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to revenue passenger miles.

OTHER MATTERS

SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS   The Air Transportation Group's results of
operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for
the entire year, since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more
favorable operating results for the second and third quarters of the year than
for the first and fourth quarters.

      The results of operations in the air transportation business have also
significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic
conditions.  In addition, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor
strikes and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern.  Unaudited
quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 1994, is
included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.

      No material part of the business of AMR and its subsidiaries is dependent
upon a single customer or very few customers.  Consequently, the loss of the
Company's largest few customers would not have a materially adverse effect upon
AMR.

INSURANCE   American carries insurance for public liability, passenger
liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft, in
amounts which, in the opinion of management, are adequate.

OTHER GOVERNMENT MATTERS   In time of war or during an unlimited national
emergency or civil defense emergency, American and other major air carriers may
be required to provide airlift services to the Military Airlift Command under
the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program.






ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES

FLIGHT EQUIPMENT

Owned and leased aircraft operated by AMR's subsidiaries at December 31, 1994,
included:

             

      For information concerning the estimated useful lives and residual values
for owned aircraft, lease terms and amortization relating to aircraft under
capital leases, and acquisitions of aircraft, see Notes 1, 3 and 4 to the
consolidated financial statements.  See Management's Discussion and Analysis
for discussion of the retirement of certain aircraft from the fleet.






      Lease expirations for leased aircraft operated by AMR's subsidiaries and
included in the preceding table as of December 31, 1994, were:




      The table excludes leases for 15 Boeing 767-300 Extended Range aircraft
which can be canceled with 30 days' notice during the first 10 years of the
lease term.  At the end of that term in 1998, the leases can be renewed for
periods ranging from 10 to 12 years.  The table also excludes leases for 16
Saab 340A aircraft and 10 Saab 340B aircraft which can be canceled with 90
days' notice within certain restrictions.  In addition, the leases for 8 ATR
aircraft included in the table will become cancelable in future years.

      Substantially all of the Air Transportation Group's aircraft leases
include an option to purchase the aircraft or to extend the lease term, or
both, with the purchase price or renewal rental to be based essentially on the
market value of the aircraft at the end of the term of the lease or at a
predetermined fixed rate.

GROUND PROPERTIES

American leases, or has built as leasehold improvements on leased property,
most of its airport and terminal facilities; certain corporate office,
maintenance and training facilities in Fort Worth, Texas; its principal
overhaul and maintenance base and computer facility at Tulsa International
Airport, Tulsa, Oklahoma; its regional reservation offices; and local ticket
and administration offices throughout the system.  American has entered into
agreements with the Tulsa Municipal Airport Trust; the Alliance Airport
Authority, Fort Worth, Texas; and the Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago O'Hare,
Raleigh/Durham, Nashville, San Juan, New York, and Los Angeles airport
authorities to provide funds for constructing, improving and modifying
facilities and acquiring equipment which are or will be leased to American.
American also utilizes public airports for its flight operations under lease
arrangements with the municipalities or governmental agencies owning or
controlling them and leases certain other ground equipment for use at its
facilities.

      For information concerning the estimated lives and residual values for
owned ground properties, lease terms and amortization relating to ground
properties under capital leases, and acquisitions of ground properties, see
Notes 1, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.






ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

American has been sued in two class action cases that have been consolidated in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, in connection with certain changes
made to American's AAdvantage frequent flyer program in May, 1988. (Wolens, et
al v. American Airlines, Inc., No. 88 CH 7554, and Tucker v. American Airlines,
Inc., No. 89 CH 199.)  In both cases, the plaintiffs seek to represent all
persons who joined the AAdvantage program before May 1988.  The complaints
allege that, on that date, American implemented changes that limited the number
of seats available to participants traveling on certain awards and established
holiday blackout dates during which no AAdvantage seats would be available for
certain awards.  The plaintiffs allege that these changes breached American's
contracts with AAdvantage members and were in violation of the Illinois
Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practice Act (Consumer Fraud Act).
Plaintiffs seek money damages of an unspecified sum, punitive damages, costs,
attorneys fees and an injunction preventing the Company from making any future
changes that would reduce the value of AAdvantage benefits.  American moved to
dismiss both complaints, asserting that the claims are preempted by the Federal
Aviation Act and barred by the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

         The trial court denied American's preemption motions, but certified
its decision for interlocutory appeal.  In December 1990, the Illinois
Appellate Court held that plaintiffs' claims for an injunction are preempted by
the Federal Aviation Act, but that plaintiffs' claims for money damages could
proceed.  On March 12, 1992, the Illinois Supreme Court affirmed the decision
of the Appellate Court.  American sought a writ of certiorari from the U.S.
Supreme Court; and on October 5, 1992, that Court vacated the decision of the
Illinois Supreme Court and remanded the cases for reconsideration in light of
the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Morales v. TWA, et al, which interpreted
the preemption provisions of the Federal Aviation Act very broadly.  On
December 16, 1993, the Illinois Supreme Court rendered its decision on remand,
holding that plaintiffs' claims seeking an injunction were preempted, but that
identical claims for compensatory and punitive damages were not preempted.  On
February 8, 1994, American filed petition for a writ of certiorari in the U.S.
Supreme Court.  The Illinois Supreme Court granted American's motion to stay
the state court proceeding pending disposition of American's petition in the
U.S. Supreme Court.  The matter was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on
November 1, 1994, and on January 18, 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its
opinion ending a portion of the suit against American.  The U.S. Supreme Court
held that a) plaintiffs' claim for violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act
was preempted by federal law -- entirely ending that part of the case and
eliminating plaintiffs' claim for punitive damages; and b) certain breach of
contract claims would not be preempted by federal law.  The Court did not
determine, however, whether the contract claims asserted by the plaintiffs in
Wolens were preempted, and therefore remanded the case to the state court for
further proceedings.  In the event that the plaintiffs' breach of contract
claim is eventually permitted to proceed in the state court, American intends
to vigorously defend the case.






ITEM 4.      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during
the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of AMR as of December 31, 1994, were:








      There is no family relationship (blood, marriage or adoption, not more
remote than first cousin) between any of the officers named above.

      There have been no events under any bankruptcy act, no criminal
proceedings, and no judgments or injunctions material to the evaluation of the
ability and integrity of any director or executive officer during the past five
years.


                                    PART II
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
             MATTERS


      The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
(symbol AMR).
The approximate number of record holders of the Company's common stock at March
1, 1995, was 17,160.

      The range of closing market prices for AMR's common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange was:



      No cash dividends on common stock were declared for any period during
1994 or 1993.  Payment of dividends is subject to the restrictions described in
Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.


ITEM 6.      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

 (in millions, except per share amounts)







(1)    Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation
       for the twelve months ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the 
       preferred stock exchange is included in Note 5 to the consolidated 
       financial statements.

No dividends were declared on common shares during any of the periods above.

Effective January 1, 1992, AMR adopted Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 106, "Employer's Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other
Than Pensions," and No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."

Information on the comparability of results is included in Management's
Discussion and Analysis and the notes to the consolidated financial statements.






ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
             FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY   AMR's net income in 1994 was $228 million ($2.26 per common share,
primary and fully diluted, after preferred dividends but before an adjustment
to additional paid-in capital for an exchange of debentures for preferred
stock).  During the fourth quarter of 1994, AMR recorded a charge of $278
million ($174 million after tax) related to the cost of future pension and
other postretirement benefits for agent and management/support staff voluntary
early retirement programs, severance and other restructuring activities.
Before the special charge, net earnings were $402 million.  In addition to the
restructuring charge, the Company's fourth quarter earnings include a charge of
$25 million ($16 million after tax) related to the loss of two regional
aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.  The Company's fourth quarter
results were also adversely affected by the disruption of American Eagle
operations at the Chicago and Raleigh/Durham hubs.

      AMR's net loss in 1993 was $110 million ($2.23 per common share, primary
and fully diluted).  The 1993 results reflect the negative impact of a five-day
strike in November by the union representing American's flight attendants.  The
results for 1993 also include a $125 million charge ($79 million after tax) for
the retirement of certain DC-10 aircraft, a positive $115 million adjustment to
revenues ($67 million net of related commission expense and taxes) for a change
in estimate related to certain earned passenger revenues, and a $71 million
provision ($46 million after tax) for losses associated with a reservations
system project and resolution of related litigation.  The Company's 1994
operating income was $1.0 billion compared with $690 million in 1993.

      In light of the changing competitive environment toward lower costs and
lower fares, in 1993 the Company began implementing a new strategic framework,
known as the Transition Plan.  The Plan has three parts, each intended to
improve the Company's results.  First, make the core airline business bigger
and stronger where economically justified.  Second, and conversely, shrink the
airline where it cannot compete profitably.  Third, reallocate resources and
effort to AMR's growing information and management services businesses which
are more profitable than the airline.

      The Company's improved results reflect progress on each of these three
tenets, as well as strong economies in most of the markets it serves, stringent
cost controls and relatively low fuel prices.

      In the low fare environment that has existed in recent years, the
Company's efforts to increase unit revenues have focused on garnering a larger
share of premium fare traffic.  American has added flights at its major hubs;
increased service between major business markets such as Dallas/Fort Worth,
Chicago and New York; added more first class seating on narrowbody aircraft;
expanded its successful transcontinental three-class service; and continued to
increase international service.

      During the same period, American has continued to downsize, primarily in
domestic markets.  Ninety-one older, less efficient jet aircraft have been
removed from service since the Transition Plan was introduced in 1993.
American Eagle has expanded its regional service as American has reduced
short-haul jet service.  American has trimmed service to about 30 cities and on
over 100 routes.  American and American Eagle closed their San Jose,
California, hub operations in 1993.  American Eagle service at Raleigh/Durham
was eliminated at the end of 1994, and American announced an end to its hub
operation there by the summer of 1995.  From the end of 1993 to the end of
1994, the Air Transportation Group's average equivalent workforce declined by
3,800.  In 1995, the Company plans further workforce reductions as it
restructures airport and reservations agent activities and continues to reduce
management and administrative staffing.

      Meanwhile, the Company's non-airline businesses continued their strong
performances.  Domestic fare activity and international expansion generated
increased booking fees for The SABRE Group.  In total, The SABRE Group's
revenues were up 13 percent from 1993 and its operating margin was nearly 24
percent.






BUSINESS SEGMENTS   The following sections provide a discussion of AMR's
results by reporting segment.  A description of the businesses in each
reporting segment is included on pages 1 and 2.  Additional segment information
is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.

AIR TRANSPORTATION GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)





REVENUES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Air Transportation Group revenues of $14.9 billion in
1994 were up $110 million, 0.7 percent, versus 1993.  American's passenger
revenues decreased 0.6 percent, $74 million.  The decline in passenger revenues
resulted primarily from a 2.3 percent decrease in passenger yield (the average
amount one passenger pays to fly one mile) from 13.28 to 12.97 cents, partially
offset by a 1.8 percent increase in passenger traffic.  Yields were driven
lower by competitive fare discounting and the greater presence of low-fare
competitors in certain domestic markets.  In addition, from 1993 to 1994,
American's average stage length increased approximately 6.4 percent,
contributing to the decline in passenger yields since fares on longer trips
tend to be lower than shorter trips on a per mile basis.  For the year,
domestic yield decreased 4.0 percent, while yield increased 2.6 percent in
Latin America and 4.5 percent in Europe.  In 1994, American derived 71.5
percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and 28.5 percent
from international operations.

      American's domestic traffic increased 0.4 percent, to 70.0 billion
revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while domestic capacity decreased 6.0 percent.
International traffic grew 5.2 percent, to 28.9 billion RPMs on a capacity
reduction of 2.7 percent.  The increase in international traffic was led by a
9.7 percent increase in Latin America on capacity growth of 1.1 percent, and a
1.6 percent increase in Europe on a capacity reduction of 6.9 percent.  Traffic
suffered in 1993 from American's inability to carry passengers during the
flight attendants' strike in November 1993 and the adverse effect of the strike
on passenger demand in the following month.  Traffic in 1994 reflects the
negative impact of the FAA's ban on flying ATR aircraft in known or forecasted
icing conditions which was in effect from December 9, 1994 through January 11,
1995.  The restrictions resulted in the temporary suspension of American Eagle
ATR service at Chicago and the Company's decision to end American Eagle service
at Raleigh/Durham.

      Despite the effect of the ATR restrictions, the AMR Eagle carriers'
passenger revenues increased 11.1 percent, $79 million.  Traffic on the AMR
Eagle carriers increased 17.0 percent, to 2.5 billion RPMs, while capacity grew
14.6 percent.  Passenger yield decreased 5.0 percent, in part due to the
carriers' increased stage length as they entered longer haul markets.

      Cargo revenues increased 2.2 percent, $14 million, driven by an 8.6
percent increase in American's domestic and international cargo volumes,
partially offset by decreasing yields brought about by strong price competition
resulting from excess industry capacity.

      Other revenues, consisting of fees for excess baggage and other passenger
services, tour marketing, contract maintenance and miscellaneous other
revenues, increased 17.1 percent, $91 million, primarily as a result of
increased passenger traffic, additional contract maintenance work and leasing
of excess aircraft.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Air Transportation Group revenues of $14.8 billion in
1993 were up $1.3 billion, 9.7 percent, versus 1992.  American's passenger
revenues rose 8.4 percent, $1.0 billion, primarily as a result of an 8.8
percent increase in passenger yield, offset by a 0.3 percent decline in
passenger traffic.

      American's passenger yield in 1993 increased to 13.28 cents, primarily as
a result of a very weak comparison base of 1992, when revenues were negatively
impacted by competitors' drastic discounting of domestic fares.  For the year,
domestic yield increased 13.5 percent.  International yield was mixed,
increasing 13.9 percent in the Pacific, unchanged in Latin America, and
declining 10.1 percent in Europe.  In 1993, American derived 73.8 percent of
its passenger revenues from domestic operations and 26.2 percent from
international operations.

      Although American's system capacity, as measured by available seat miles
(ASMs), increased 5.2 percent, its traffic, as measured by RPMs, decreased 0.3
percent.  The drastic fare discounting drove traffic up to record levels in
1992.  Traffic suffered in 1993 from American's inability to carry passengers
during the flight attendants' union strike in November and the adverse effect
of the strike on passenger demand during the month of December.  American's
domestic traffic decreased 3.5 percent, to 69.7 billion RPMs, while domestic
capacity grew 2.9 percent.  International traffic grew 9.1 percent, to 27.5
billion RPMs on capacity growth of 12.1 percent.  The increase in international
traffic was led by a 14.7 percent increase in Latin America on capacity growth
of 17.5 percent, and a 7.4 percent increase in Europe on capacity growth of
10.8 percent.






      Passenger revenues for the AMR Eagle carriers increased 43.6 percent,
$216 million, primarily due to the opening and expansion of regional operations
at Dallas/Fort Worth with assets acquired from Metroflight, Inc.  Traffic on
the AMR Eagle carriers increased 47.6 percent to 2.1 billion RPMs, while
capacity grew 41.6 percent to 3.8 billion ASMs.  Passenger yield decreased 2.7
percent.

      Cargo revenues increased 10.7 percent, $62 million, driven by a 22.5
percent increase in American's domestic and international cargo volumes,
partially offset by decreasing yields brought about by strong price competition
resulting from excess industry capacity.

      Other revenues, consisting of service fees, liquor revenues, duty-free
sales, tour marketing and miscellaneous other revenues, increased 5.6 percent,
$28 million, primarily as a result of increased traffic.

EXPENSES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Air Transportation Group operating expenses in 1994
included restructuring charges of $272 million, primarily resulting from the
cost of future pension and other postretirement benefits related to agent and
management voluntary early retirement programs.  Excluding the restructuring
costs, the Air Transportation Group's operating expenses decreased 2.6 percent,
$374 million.  American's capacity decreased 5.1 percent, due primarily to the
retirement of 41 older aircraft, partially offset by the addition of 22 new
aircraft.  Because capacity decreased more rapidly than expenses, American's
Passenger Division cost per ASM, excluding restructuring costs, increased by
1.1 percent, to 8.34 cents.

      Despite a 4.0 percent decrease in the average number of equivalent
employees, wages, salaries and benefits expense rose 1.8 percent, $86 million.
The increase was due primarily to contractual and other wage and salary
adjustments for existing employees, variable compensation under the Company's
various profit sharing plans, and rising pension and other postretirement
benefits costs.

      Aircraft fuel expense decreased 13.9 percent, $261 million, due to an 8.4
percent decrease in American's average price per gallon and a 6.8 percent
decrease in gallons consumed by American.  American's average price per gallon
decreased from $0.62 per gallon in 1993 to $0.57 per gallon in 1994.  American
consumed an average of 228 million gallons of jet fuel each month.  A one-cent
increase in fuel prices costs approximately $2.3 million per month, not
considering the offsetting effect of the Company's fuel price hedging program.

      Commissions to agents decreased 7.8 percent, $113 million, due to a lower
percentage of passenger revenues subject to commissions and a change in
classification of certain international commissions.

      New aircraft acquisitions and other capital spending increased
depreciation and amortization 1.6 percent, $16 million.  Capital spending in
1994 included acquisition of 17 owned jet aircraft, five capital-leased jet
aircraft and 16 owned turboprop aircraft and other capital equipment.  This
increase was partially offset by the retirement of 22 owned and capital-leased
aircraft from the fleet.

      Other operating expenses, consisting of aircraft rentals, other rentals
and landing fees, food service costs, maintenance expenses and miscellaneous
operating expenses, decreased 1.9 percent, $102 million.  Aircraft rentals
decreased 1.8 percent, $14 million, primarily due to the expiration of
operating leases during 1994 on 19 Boeing 727, 19 Jetstream 32, and five Shorts
360 aircraft, partially offset by the addition of 14 Super ATR and three Saab
340 aircraft on operating leases to subsidiaries of AMR Eagle from AMR Leasing.
Other rentals and landing fees decreased 1.5 percent, $12 million, due
primarily to reduced landing fees expense resulting from American's capacity
reductions, partially offset by higher fee rates charged by airports.  Food
service cost decreased 4.2 percent, $29 million, due to a 1.8 percent decline
in passengers boarded and aggressive cost reduction strategies, including
changes in meal scheduling policies, renegotiation of contracts and increased
use of vendor-prepared products.  Maintenance materials and repairs expense
decreased 13.7 percent, $90 million.  American's maintenance costs were lower
as a result of retiring older aircraft from the fleet, increased warranty
recoveries, and operational efficiencies gained by reducing the number of
maintenance locations and other initiatives.  Offsetting the decrease for
American, growth of the American Eagle operations generated an increase in its
maintenance materials and repairs costs.  Miscellaneous operating expenses
(including data processing services, booking fees, crew travel expenses, credit
card fees, advertising and communications costs) increased 1.8 percent, $43
million, primarily due to increased booking fees.






1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Air Transportation Group operating expenses increased
4.5 percent, $627 million.  American's capacity increased 5.2 percent, to 160.9
billion ASMs, due primarily to the addition of new aircraft.  American's
Passenger Division cost per ASM decreased 2.0 percent, to 8.25 cents.

      Wages, salaries and benefits rose 5.3 percent, $245 million, due to wage
and salary adjustments for existing employees, rising healthcare costs and a
1.7 percent increase in the average number of equivalent employees.  In
addition, during the fourth quarter, the Air Transportation Group recorded a
$13 million severance provision in conjunction with layoffs and voluntary
terminations of management/specialist and operations personnel.

      Aircraft fuel expense decreased 1.7 percent, $33 million, due to a 4.9
percent decrease in American's average price per gallon, partially offset by a
2.7 percent increase in gallons consumed by American.  American's average price
per gallon decreased from $0.65 per gallon in 1992 to $0.62 per gallon in 1993.

      Commissions to agents increased 11.3 percent, $147 million, due
principally to increased passenger revenues and increased incentives for travel
agents.

      Depreciation and amortization increased 19.9 percent, $167 million,
primarily due to the addition of 44 owned jet aircraft, 24 owned turboprop
aircraft and other capital equipment.

      Other operating expenses, consisting of aircraft rentals, other rentals
and landing fees, food service costs, maintenance expenses and miscellaneous
operating expenses, increased 2.0 percent, $101 million.  Aircraft rentals
increased 8.8 percent, $65 million, primarily due to the full-year impact of
1992 operating-leased aircraft additions and the addition of operating-leased
aircraft during 1993.  Other rentals and landing fees increased 4.4 percent,
$33 million, due primarily to increased rentals resulting from additions,
improvements and renovations to facilities owned by airport authorities and
leased to American.  Food service cost increased 0.6 percent, $4 million,
reflecting the 9.1 percent increase in international traffic, where food costs
are greater, offset by the 3.5 percent decrease in domestic traffic.
Maintenance materials and repairs expense decreased 3.5 percent, $24 million,
due principally to the retirement of older aircraft and increased operational
efficiencies.  Miscellaneous operating expenses (including crew travel
expenses, booking fees, purchased services, communications charges, credit card
fees and advertising) increased 1.0 percent, $23 million, primarily due to the
increase in capacity.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Other Income (Expense) consists of interest income and expense, interest
capitalized and miscellaneous - net.

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Interest expense, net of interest income, decreased 3.5
percent, $20 million.  Interest expense was lower due to repurchases and
retirement of long-term debt and savings generated by interest rate swap
transactions, offset in part by the effect of rising interest rates on floating
rate obligations.  Interest income increased due to a higher average investment
balances and higher interest rates.  Interest capitalized decreased 58.5
percent, $30 million, primarily as a result of the decrease in the average
balance during the year of purchase deposits for flight equipment.

      Miscellaneous - net for 1994 includes a $25 million charge related to the
loss of two regional aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.
Miscellaneous - net for 1993 includes a $125 million charge related to the
retirement of certain DC-10 aircraft.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Interest expense, net of interest income, increased
10.1 percent, $53 million, as a result of additional external financings,
offset in part by interest savings generated from declining interest rates,
interest rate swap transactions and repurchases and retirement of long-term
debt.  In addition, interest capitalized decreased 48.0 percent, $47 million,
as a result of the decrease in the average balance during the year of purchase
deposits for flight equipment and the decline in interest rates.

      Miscellaneous - net for 1993 includes a $125 million charge related to
the retirement of certain DC-10 aircraft.  Included in Miscellaneous - net for
1992 is a $14 million provision for a cash payment representing American's
share of a multi-carrier antitrust settlement and an $11 million charge
associated with the retirement of an aircraft fleet of one of the AMR Eagle
carriers.






THE SABRE GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)


REVENUES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Revenues for The SABRE Group increased 12.6 percent,
$172 million.  Booking fee revenues increased due to growth in booking volumes,
increased average fees per booking collected from participating vendors and the
introduction of premium-priced products.  Other revenues rose as a result of
increased license fee revenues and systems development sales.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Revenues for The SABRE Group increased 7.8 percent, $99
million, primarily due to increased booking fees resulting from growth in
booking volumes and average fees collected from participating vendors.

EXPENSES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 12.2 percent,
$53 million, due primarily increased incentive compensation and a 10.8 percent
increase in the average number of equivalent employees.  Depreciation and
amortization increased 4.6 percent, $8 million, as a result of acquiring new
computer equipment.  Rentals increased 15.7 percent, $8 million, due to
additional leased data processing equipment and facilities costs.  The SABRE
Group's 1994 operating expenses also include $6 million in costs associated
with restructuring activities.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 12.4 percent,
$48 million, due to wage and salary increases, a 3.8 percent increase in the
average number of equivalent employees and a $12 million severance provision
for workforce reductions associated with the formation of SABRE Decision
Technologies.  Other operating expenses increased 9.7 percent, $39 million, due
to higher incentive payments to travel agents, outsourcing services related to
product line expansion and costs associated with international expansion.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Other Income (Expense) for 1993 and 1992 includes provisions of $71 million and
$165 million, respectively, for losses associated with a reservations system
project and resolution of related litigation.






AMR MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (dollars in millions)


REVENUES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Revenues for the AMR Management Services Group
increased 18.4 percent, $83 million.  AMR Services' revenues increased 17.3
percent, $49 million, primarily as a result of strong domestic fuel and deicing
service sales, the acquisition of an additional domestic fixed-base operator in
November 1993 and the expansion of international operations.  AMR Leasing's
revenues decreased 12.9 percent, $18 million, due to the expiration of
operating leases on 19 Jetstream 32 aircraft, partially offset by the addition
of 13 Super ATR aircraft in AMR Leasing's regional aircraft fleet.  Revenues of
the AMR Training and Consulting Group, which began operations in the first
quarter of 1993, increased $29 million.  Revenues of Americas Ground Services,
which began operations in the second quarter of 1993, increased $17 million.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Revenues for the AMR Management Services Group
increased 34.5 percent, $116 million.  AMR Services' revenues increased 15.2
percent, $37 million, primarily as a result of strong domestic fuel and deicing
sales, expansion of European operations and the acquisition of an additional
domestic fixed-base operator in November.  AMR Leasing's revenues increased
73.2 percent, $59 million, with additional turboprop aircraft under rental to
subsidiaries of AMR Eagle.  In addition, Americas Ground Services ended 1993,
its first year, with more than $10 million in revenues.

EXPENSES

1994 COMPARED TO 1993   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 49.5 percent,
$54 million, due primarily to an increase in the average number of equivalent
employees and wage and salary adjustments for existing employess.  Aircraft
rentals decreased 29.3 percent, $24 million, and depreciation and amortization
increased 14.0 percent, $6 million, with the decline in operating leased
aircraft and the increase in owned aircraft in AMR Leasing's turboprop fleet,
respectively.  Other operating expenses increased 24.7 percent, $42 million,
due primarily to the expansion of AMR Services, AMR Training & Consulting Group
and Americas Ground Services.

1993 COMPARED TO 1992   Wages, salaries and benefits increased 23.9 percent,
$21 million, due primarily to a 37.5 percent increase in the average number of
equivalent employees.  Aircraft rentals increased 86.4 percent, $38 million,
and depreciation and amortization increased 30.3 percent, $10 million, with
additional operating-leased and owned aircraft in AMR Leasing's turboprop
fleet.  Other operating expenses increased 19.7 percent, $28 million, due
primarily to the expansion of AMR Services and Americas Ground Services' first
year of operations.






INFLATION

Adjustment of historical cost data to reflect the impact of general inflation
and specific price changes would worsen AMR's operating results, principally
because of the increased depreciation and amortization resulting from the
replacement, at current cost, of equipment and property with assets that have
the same service potential.  However, because AMR's monetary liabilities exceed
monetary assets, the worsened operating results would be partially offset by
the gain from the decline in purchasing power of the net amounts owed.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Operating activities provided net cash of $1.7 billion in 1994, $1.4 billion in
1993 and $843 million in 1992.  Capital expenditures in 1994 totaled $1.3
billion, compared to $2.1 billion in 1993 and $3.3 billion in 1992.  In 1994,
the Company took delivery of 17 owned jet aircraft - three Boeing 757-200s, one
Boeing 767-300ER and 13 Fokker 100s.  The Company also took delivery of 17
turboprop aircraft - 14 Super ATRs and three Saab 340Bs.

CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

FIRM DELIVERIES   At December 31, 1994, AMR had 19 aircraft on order,
aggregating approximately $650 million, for delivery in 1995 and 1996.  The
Company had firm orders for ten Boeing 757-200s, four Boeing 767-300ERs and
five Super ATRs.

      In 1995, the Company is scheduled to take delivery of ten jet aircraft --
six Boeing 757-200s and four Boeing 767-300ERs -- as well as five Super ATR
turboprop aircraft.  Total expenditures for 1995 for aircraft acquisitions and
related equipment will be approximately $500 million.

OTHER   The Company also has authorized capital expenditures in 1995 of
approximately $225 million for aircraft modifications, computer equipment,
renovations of, and additions to, airport and office facilities and various
other equipment and assets.

      AMR intends to finance its capital asset acquisitions through the use of
internally generated funds.  At March 1, 1995, no borrowings were outstanding
under American's credit facilities and approximately $1.16 billion was
available under the facilities.

      AMR continually reviews its need for additional aircraft and ground
properties and makes investments based on return-on-investment analyses and
both short-term and long-term profitability forecasts.  AMR has several ways to
adjust its plans, including terminating certain operating leases, scaling back
or canceling planned facility expansions and delaying other planned
expenditures.

AIRCRAFT OPTIONS   In addition to aircraft on firm order at December 31, 1994,
American has 97 jet aircraft available on option - nine Boeing 757-200s, three
Boeing 767-300ERs, ten McDonnell Douglas MD-11s and 75 Fokker 100s.  The
Company also has 94 turboprop aircraft available on option - 54 Super ATRs, 30
Saab 2000s and 10 ATR 42s.

OTHER INFORMATION

WORKING CAPITAL   AMR (principally American Airlines) historically operates
with a working capital deficit as do most other airline companies.  The
existence of such a deficit has not in the past impaired the Company's ability
to meet its obligations as they become due and is not expected to do so in the
future.

DEFERRED TAX ASSETS   As of December 31, 1994, the Company had deferred tax
assets aggregating approximately $2.5 billion, including approximately $348
million of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.  The Company believes
substantially all the deferred tax assets will be realized through reversal of
existing taxable temporary differences.






ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   Subsidiaries of AMR have been notified of potential
liability with regard to several environmental cleanup sites.  At sites where
remedial litigation has commenced, potential liability is joint and several.
AMR's alleged volumetric contributions at the sites are minimal.  AMR does not
expect these actions, individually or collectively, to have a material impact
on its financial condition, operating results or cash flows.

DISCOUNT RATE   Due to the increase in interest rates during 1994, the discount
rate used to determine the Company's pension obligations as of December 31,
1994 and the related expense for 1995 has been increased.  The Company expects
the decrease in 1995 pension expense as a result of the change in the discount
rate will be more than offset by the impact of depreciation in the market value
of pension plan assets experienced during 1994.

LITIGATION SETTLEMENT   During 1994, the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia approved the settlement of various class action claims
against American and certain other carriers.  Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, the carriers paid a total of approximately $50 million in cash and
jointly issued approximately $408 million in face amount of certificates for
discounts of approximately 10 percent on future air travel on any of the
carriers.  A liability has not been established for the certificate portion of
the settlement since American expects that, in the aggregate, future revenues
received upon redemption of the certificates will exceed the related cost of
providing the air travel.  American anticipates that the share of the
certificates redeemed on American may represent, but is not limited to,
American's 26 percent market share among the carriers.  The ultimate impact of
the settlement on American's revenues, operating margins or earnings is not
reasonably estimable since both the portion of certificates to be redeemed on
American and the stimulative or depressive effect of the certificate redemption
on revenues is not known.






OUTLOOK FOR 1995

During 1994, AMR continued the course of change initiated in 1993.  Following a
comprehensive review of the competitive realities of its businesses, in 1993
the Company determined it would have to change significantly to generate
sufficient earnings.  The Company recognized that the fundamental problems of
the airline -- increasing competition from low-cost, low-fare carriers, its
inability to reduce labor costs to competitive levels and the changing values
of its customers -- demanded new solutions.  As an initial response to that
need, in 1993 the Company created and began implementing a new strategic
framework known as the Transition Plan.  The plan has three parts, each
intended to improve the Company's results.  First, make the core airline
business bigger and stronger where economically justified.  Second, and
conversely, shrink the airline where it cannot compete profitably.  Third,
encourage the growth of the information and management services businesses,
which are more profitable than the airline.

      The Transition Plan recognizes the unfavorable and uncertain economics
which have characterized the core airline business in recent years,
acknowledges the airline cost problem and seeks to maximize the contribution of
the Company's more profitable businesses.  Over the long term, the Company will
continue its best efforts to reduce airline costs and to restore the airline
operations to profitability.  Based upon the success or failure of those
efforts, the Company will make ongoing determinations as to the appropriate
level of its investment in its airline operations, which may result, if the
airline cannot be run profitably, in the disposition or termination, over the
long term, of a substantial part or all of the airline operations.

AIR TRANSPORTATION GROUP   Despite the challenges faced by American, the
airline has many basic strengths.  These include a hub-and-spoke route network
that allows it to efficiently serve thousands of domestic and international
markets; a modern, quiet, fuel-efficient fleet; the AAdvantage frequent flyer
program; and leading-edge computer technology, including the industry's premier
yield management system.

      These strengths and American's continued focus on premium-fare traffic
have helped to lessen the impact of an adverse pricing environment.  While
competitive pressures have continued to weaken passenger yields, robust
economic conditions and careful revenue management have led to increases in
American's passenger revenue per ASM.  During 1995, American will add to the
number of flights at its most successful hub operations at Dallas/Fort Worth
and Miami, as well as in certain transcontinental and international markets.

      As restructuring programs announced in late 1994 are phased in, American
will make substantial progress in reducing certain labor costs.  Changes in the
way American operates its airports and reservations offices, including
outsourcing small station operations and some reservations activities and in
the way it pays hourly non-management employees such as ticket agents and
reservations agents, are expected to save about $35 million in 1995 and about
$130 million annually when steady state is achieved in four to five years.

      In addition, in March 1995 the Company announced the results of a
six-month study of the Air Transportation Group's administrative functions.
The Company expects to implement changes based on the results of the study
which will result in cost savings of approximately $38 million in 1995.  Once
the changes are fully implemented in 1996, they are expected to reduce annual
administrative costs by approximately $93 million.  Also as a result of the
study, the Company announced certain organizational changes which are expected
to yield additional cost savings.

      Despite ongoing efforts, the airline has yet to make significant progress
in reducing its contractual labor costs.  American is currently in various
stages of discussion with all three of its major unions.  The ultimate outcome
of these discussions cannot be estimated at this time.

      First, the Company's contract with the Association of Professional Flight
Attendants (APFA) became amendable in December 1992.  Following a lengthy
negotiation and mediation process, the APFA staged a five-day strike against
the Company in November 1993.  The strike ended when both parties agreed to
binding arbitration.  The arbitration process began last October, and the
arbitrators' decision is expected sometime during late summer.  While the
outcome cannot be predicted, the new contract will likely result in higher unit
labor costs in 1995 than in 1994.






      Second, American has been in negotiations since last July with the Allied
Pilots Association (APA) which represents its 9,100 pilots.  The contract with
the APA became amendable August 31, 1994.  In exchange for substantial
productivity improvements, American has offered both job and income protection.
To date, little progress has been made, and it is not clear when -- or if --
American will be successful in achieving the needed changes.

      Finally, American's contract with the Transport Workers Union (TWU),
which represents its ramp service workers and mechanics, became amendable March
1, 1995.  The Company and the TWU opened formal negotiations in February.
American is discussing both enhanced job security and early-retirement programs
in exchange for a fundamentally revised agreement that will give it the right
to outsource certain functions, use more part-time employees and implement
other efficiency improvements.

      Faced with the prospect of continuing to bear uncompetitive labor costs,
American has continued to downsize, primarily in domestic markets.  Since the
initial phases of the Transition Plan were implemented in 1993, American has
cut jet service to about 30 cities and on over 100 routes.  Approximately 90
older, less efficient jet aircraft have been removed from the fleet, and, as a
result, approximately 5,000 positions at the airline have been eliminated.  In
1995, American plans to remove another 23 Boeing 727 and three McDonnell
Douglas DC-10 aircraft from the fleet.  American will add six Boeing 757 and
four Boeing 767 aircraft to the fleet, as the last delivery from the large jet
orders of the 1980s approaches.  These changes will reduce the number of jet
aircraft in the fleet to 633 at the end of 1995, down from 647 at December 31,
1994 and 667 at December 31, 1993.

      As the fleet continues to shrink, American will continue to reallocate
assets to its most profitable markets and to refine its operations.  Despite
continued fleet reductions, American's system wide capacity is planned to
increase slightly, primarily due to increased aircraft utilization.  This
capacity increase follows a 5.1 percent decline in 1994.  Domestic ASMs are
expected to fall 1.1 percent, while international ASMs will increase 5.4
percent.

      The American Eagle carriers' results in early 1995 will continue to be
affected by the FAA's temporary restrictions on the operation of ATR aircraft.
In December 1994, the American Eagle carriers ceased operations at
Raleigh/Durham and redeployed their fleets to move the ATR aircraft to the
south, and Saab aircraft to the north, to lessen the impact of the restrictions
on their operations.  As the aircraft are returned to their original locations,
the carriers expect operations to improve during the second quarter and return
to normal by the third quarter.

      In January 1995, American announced a substantial reduction at
Raleigh/Durham that will end its hub operations there by summer.  At the same
time, the Company announced an agreement to sublease 12 gates to Midway
Airlines, which joined the AAdvantage frequent flyer program as a full
participant.  As a result, American will eliminate a substantial amount of
overhead while maintaining a marketing presence in the North/South traffic
flow.  Midway's service at Raleigh/Durham will complement American's service in
markets between the Northeast and Florida.  American also announced a
significant reduction in flights at the Nashville hub for 1995.

      In February 1995, American changed its travel agent commission structure
for domestic tickets by introducing a maximum commission payment of $50 per
round-trip ticket and $25 per one-way ticket.  The change is effective for
tickets issued on or after February 27.  The commission cap applies to all
tickets issued by U.S. travel agents for travel within the continental United
States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  The change in
commission structure is expected to result in lower commissions expense in
1995.

      American's revenue plan for 1995 reflects continued emphasis on producing
premium yields by attracting more full fare passengers than its competitors.
As a part of that plan, American will expand service at its most successful
hubs, increase frequencies in key long-haul business markets and add service in
certain international markets.






      In 1995, though the Air Transportation Group will continue its rigorous
program of cost control, it expects unit costs, excluding fuel and the impact
of the change in the commission structure, to rise modestly over 1994's unit
costs, excluding the restructuring costs.  The increase in unit labor costs due
to contractual wage and benefit increases will be partially offset by the
savings generated by the implementation of other labor cost reduction
initiatives.

      American will continue to pursue other sources of revenue, including
building AAdvantage program participation and joint marketing programs, leasing
excess aircraft, and pursuing contracts to provide maintenance, training and
other services.  The Company will also seek to increase airline cargo revenues
in 1995.

      In August 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act was signed into
law, imposing a new 4.3 cents per gallon tax on commercial aviation jet fuel
for use in domestic operations.  The new tax will become effective October 1,
1995, and is scheduled to continue until October 1, 1998.  American estimates
the resulting annual increase in fuel taxes will be approximately $90 million.

      Since the Company cannot currently generate sufficient returns to justify
investment in new aircraft, capital expenditures will continue to fall.  For
1995, the Company plans capital spending of approximately $1 billion, and by
1996 planned capital spending for The SABRE Group will be approximately equal
to planned spending for the airline, each at about $300 million.  As a result
of the decreased capital spending, the Company expects to generate positive
cash flow in 1995.

      The Company began a program in the second half of 1993 to reduce interest
expense and intends to continue the program in 1995.  This may involve the
retirement or refinancing of debt as well as the repurchase, in the open market
or otherwise, of a significant amount of debt in excess of scheduled 1995
repayments.  The total amount of debt retired, refinanced or repurchased will
depend on market conditions, the Company's cash position and other
considerations.

THE SABRE GROUP   During 1994, The SABRE Group implemented a new business
strategy that will narrow its focus and capitalize on its strengths in travel
and transportation information systems and decision support.

      Following STIN's expansion in Europe, Latin America and Mexico and the
introduction of SABRE into India in 1994, The SABRE Group will focus on
continued international growth of the SABRE computer reservations system in
1995.  In addition, SDT will continue to develop and market an expanding array
of information systems products and services to a growing list of customers
throughout the world.

      The SABRE Group was instrumental in successfully implementing the
Company's long-term services agreement with Canadian Airlines International.
That agreement is expected to generate average revenues for the Company of more
than $100 million a year in each of the next 20 years, beginning in 1995.  The
majority of the revenues relate to services provided by The SABRE Group.

AMR MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP   AMR Management Services Group's dramatic
revenue growth over the past several years will slow, reflecting the impact of
discontinued businesses at AMR Services and fewer regional aircraft additions
at AMR Leasing, partially offset by the addition of revenues from Airline
Management Services and stronger revenues for AMR Training & Consulting Group.

      Effective January 1, 1995, two business units which have been included in
The SABRE Group for financial reporting purposes in 1993 and 1994 --
TeleService Resources and Data Management Services -- became part of the AMR
Management Services Group.






ITEM 8.      CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS













REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
AMR Corporation


      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AMR
Corporation as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.  Our audits also included
the financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 14(a).  These
financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AMR
Corporation at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

      As discussed in Notes 7 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements,
effective January 1, 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for
income taxes and postretirement benefits other than pensions.




                                        ERNST & YOUNG LLP


2121 San Jacinto
Dallas, Texas  75201
February 13, 1995






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 (in millions, except per share amounts)


Continued on next page.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
 (in millions, except per share amounts)

-----------------------------------------

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 (in millions)


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 (in millions, except shares and par value)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 (in millions)



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






AMR CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 (in millions, except shares and per share amounts)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.






NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.    SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
Certain amounts from prior years have been reclassified to conform with the
1994 presentation.

INVENTORIES   Spare parts, materials and supplies relating to flight equipment
are carried at average cost and are expensed when used in operations.
Allowances for obsolescence are provided, over the estimated useful life of the
related aircraft and engines, for spare parts expected to be on hand at the
date aircraft are retired from service.

EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY   The provision for depreciation of operating equipment
and property is computed on the straight-line method applied to each unit of
property, except that spare assemblies are depreciated on a group basis.  The
depreciable lives and residual values used for the principal depreciable asset
classifications are:


   (1)   In 1991, American changed the estimated useful lives of its Boeing
         727-200 aircraft and engines from a common retirement date of December
         31, 1994, to projected retirement dates by aircraft, which results in
         an average depreciable life of approximately 21 years.
   (2)   Approximate common retirement date.

      Equipment and property under capital leases are amortized over the term
of the leases and such amortization is included in depreciation and
amortization.  Lease terms vary but are generally 10 to 20 years for aircraft
and 7 to 40 years for other leased equipment and property.

MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR COSTS   Maintenance and repair costs for owned and
leased flight equipment are charged to operating expense as incurred, except
engine overhaul costs incurred by AMR's regional carriers, which are accrued on
the basis of hours flown.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS   The Company continually evaluates intangible assets to
determine whether current events and circumstances warrant adjustment of the
carrying values or amortization periods.

      Route acquisition costs and airport operating and gate lease rights
represent the purchase price attributable to route authorities, airport
take-off and landing slots and airport gate leasehold rights acquired and are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 to 40 years.

PASSENGER REVENUES   Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a current
liability.  Revenue derived from the sale is recognized at the time
transportation is provided.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM   The estimated incremental cost of providing free
travel awards is accrued when such award levels are reached.  American sells
mileage credits to participating companies in its frequent flyer program.  The
portion of such revenues that relates to transportation is deferred and
recognized over a period approximating the time transportation is provided.






1.    SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

INCOME TAXES   AMR and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated federal
income tax return.  Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the financial reporting carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities and the income tax amounts.

DEFERRED GAINS   Gains on the sale and leaseback of equipment and property are
deferred and amortized over the terms of the related leases as a reduction of
rent expense.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   Market value gains or losses on foreign
currency exchange agreements are recognized and offset against foreign exchange
gains or losses on the related existing assets or liabilities.  Gains and
losses on fuel swap agreements are recognized as a component of fuel expense
when the underlying fuel being hedged is used.  Net settlements under interest
rate swap agreements are reflected in interest expense on the accrual basis.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   Short-term investments, without regard to remaining
maturity at acquisition, are not considered as cash equivalents for purposes of
the statement of cash flows.

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE   Earnings (loss) per share computations are
based upon the earnings (loss) applicable to common shares and the average
number of shares of common stock outstanding and dilutive common stock
equivalents (stock options, warrants and deferred stock) outstanding.  The
convertible subordinated debentures and the convertible preferred stock are not
common stock equivalents.  The number of shares used in the computations of
primary and fully diluted earnings (loss) per common share for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, was 76.2 million, 76.0 million and 74.9
million, respectively.

      Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation for
the year ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the preferred stock
exchange is included in Note 5.

2.    SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

      Short-term investments consisted of (in millions):


      Short-term investments at December 31, 1994, by contractual maturity
included (in millions):


      All short-term investments were classified as available-for-sale and
stated at fair value.






3.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

      The Company has on order 14 jet aircraft -- ten Boeing 757-200s and four
Boeing 767-300ERs -- scheduled for delivery in 1995 and 1996, and five Super
ATR turboprop aircraft scheduled for delivery in 1995.  Deposits of $116
million have been made toward the purchase of these aircraft.  Future payments,
including estimated amounts for price escalation through anticipated delivery
dates for these aircraft and related equipment, will be approximately $500
million in 1995 and $150 million in 1996, a portion of which is payable in
foreign currencies.

      In addition to these commitments for aircraft, the Company has authorized
expenditures of approximately $350 million for aircraft modifications,
renovations of, and additions to, airport and office facilities and various
other equipment and assets.  AMR expects to spend approximately $225 million of
this amount in 1995.

      AMR and American have included an event risk covenant in approximately
$383 million of debentures and approximately $2.9 billion of lease agreements.
The covenant permits the holders of such instruments to receive a higher rate
of return (between 50 and 700 basis points above the stated rate) if a
designated event, as defined, should occur and the credit rating of the
debentures or the debt obligations underlying the lease agreements is
downgraded below certain levels.

      In July 1991, American entered into a five-year agreement whereby
American transfers, on a continuing basis and with recourse to the receivables,
an undivided interest in a designated pool of receivables.  Undivided interests
in new receivables are transferred daily as collections reduce previously
transferred receivables.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, receivables are
presented net of approximately $112 million and $300 million, respectively, of
such transferred receivables.  American maintains an allowance for
uncollectible receivables based upon expected collectibility of all
receivables, including the receivables transferred.

      Special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain
municipalities, primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities
which are leased by American.  In certain cases, the bond issue proceeds were
loaned to American and are included in long-term debt.  Certain bonds have
rates that are periodically reset and are remarketed by various agents.  In
certain circumstances, American may be required to purchase up to $413 million
of the special facility revenue bonds prior to maturity, in which case American
has the right to resell the bonds or to use the bonds to offset its lease or
debt obligations.  American may borrow the purchase price of these bonds under
standby letter-of-credit agreements. At American's option, these letters of
credit are secured by funds held by bond trustees and by approximately $421
million of short-term investments.






4.    LEASES

      AMR's subsidiaries lease various types of equipment and property,
including aircraft, passenger terminals, equipment and various other
facilities.  The future minimum lease payments required under capital leases,
together with the present value of net minimum lease payments, and future
minimum lease payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31,
1994, were (in millions):


   (1)   Future minimum payments required under capital leases include $390
         million and $216 million guaranteed by AMR and American, respectively,
         relating to special facility revenue bonds issued by municipalities.
   (2)   Future minimum payments required under operating leases include $6.3
         billion guaranteed by AMR relating to special facility revenue bonds
         issued by municipalities.

      At December 31, 1994, the Company had 216 jet aircraft and 123 turboprop
aircraft under operating leases, and 82 jet aircraft and 63 turboprop aircraft
under capital leases.

      The aircraft leases can generally be renewed at rates based on fair
market value at the end of the lease term for one to five years.  Most aircraft
leases have purchase options at or near the end of the lease term at fair
market value, but generally not to exceed a stated percentage of the defined
lessor's cost of the aircraft.  Of the aircraft American has under operating
leases, 15 Boeing 767-300ERs are cancelable upon 30 days' notice during the
initial 10-year lease term.  At the end of that term in 1998, the leases can be
renewed for periods ranging from 10 to 12 years.

      Rent expense, excluding landing fees, was $1.3 billion for 1994, 1993 and
1992.






5.    INDEBTEDNESS

      Long-term debt (excluding amounts maturing within one year) consisted of
(in millions):



      Maturities of long-term debt (including sinking fund requirements) for
the next five years are:  1995 - $590 million; 1996 - $231 million; 1997 - $399
million; 1998 - $436 million; 1999 - $65 million.

      Certain debt is secured by aircraft, engines, equipment and other assets
having a net book value of approximately $1.6 billion.

      In November 1994, AMR issued $1.02 billion in par value of convertible
subordinated debentures in exchange for 2.04 million shares of its outstanding
convertible preferred stock with a carrying value of $1.0 billion.  Each $1,000
debenture is convertible into common stock of AMR at a conversion price of $79
per share, equivalent to 12.658 shares per $1,000 debenture.  As a result of
the exchange, the Company recorded a $171 million non-cash increase in
additional paid-in capital, representing the difference in the fair value of
the new debentures and the carrying value of the preferred shares exchanged.
While this amount did not impact net earnings for the year ended December 31,
1994, it is included in the computation of earnings per share.

      During 1993, AMR repurchased and retired prior to maturity its zero
coupon subordinated convertible notes due 2006 and certain other long-term debt
with a total carrying value of $802 million.  The repurchases and retirements
resulted in an extraordinary loss of $21 million ($14 million after tax).
Additional borrowings and cash from operations provided the funding for the
repurchases and retirements.

      American has a $410 million short-term credit facility agreement which
expires in 1995 and a $750 million credit facility expiring in 1997.  American
also had a $335 million multiple option facility which American terminated in
January 1995.  Interest on these agreements is calculated at floating rates
based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).  At February 13, 1995, no
borrowings were outstanding and approximately $1.16 billion was available under
these facilities.

      American's debt and credit facility agreements contain certain
restrictive covenants, including a cash flow coverage test, a minimum net worth
requirement and limitations on indebtedness and the declaration of dividends on
shares of its capital stock.  Certain of these restrictions could affect AMR's
ability to pay dividends.  At December 31, 1994, under the most restrictive
provisions of those agreements, approximately $629 million of American's
retained earnings were available for payment of cash dividends to AMR.

      Certain of AMR's debt agreements contain restrictive covenants, including
a limitation on the declaration of dividends on shares of capital stock.  At
December 31, 1994, under the terms of such agreements, all of AMR's retained
earnings were available for payment of dividends.






6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

      As part of the Company's risk management program, AMR uses a variety of
financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, fuel swaps and currency
exchange agreements.  The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes.

      NOTIONAL AMOUNTS AND CREDIT EXPOSURES OF DERIVATIVES

      The notional amounts of derivative financial instruments summarized in
the tables which follow do not represent amounts exchanged between the parties
and, therefore, are not a measure of the Company's exposure resulting from its
use of derivatives.  The amounts exchanged are calculated based on the notional
amounts and other terms of the instruments, which relate to interest rates,
exchange rates or other indices.

      The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties to these financial instruments, but it does not expect any of
the counterparties to fail to meet its obligations.  The credit exposure
related to these financial instruments is represented by the fair value of
contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date, reduced by the
effects of master netting agreements.  To manage credit risks, the Company
selects counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single
counterparty under defined guidelines, and monitors the market position of the
program and its relative market position with each counterparty.  The Company
also maintains industry-standard security agreements with the majority of its
counterparties which may require the Company or the counterparty to post
collateral in certain situations.  As of December 31, 1994, no collateral was
required under these agreements.

      INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

      American enters into interest rate swap contracts to effectively convert
a portion of its fixed-rate obligations to floating-rate obligations.  Under
the contracts, American agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified
intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts
calculated on a notional principal amount.  Because American's operating
results tend to be better in economic cycles with relatively high interest
rates and its capital investments tend to be financed with long-term fixed-rate
instruments, interest rate swaps in which American pays the floating rate and
receives the fixed rate are used to reduce the impact of economic cycles on
American's net income.

      The following table indicates the notional amounts and fair values of the
Company's interest rate swap agreements (in millions):



      The fair values represent the amount the Company would have to pay to
terminate the agreements at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The rise
in interest rates during 1994 resulted in a decrease in the market value of the
Company's fixed-rate debt obligations in excess of the decrease in the value of
the interest rate swap agreements.

      At December 31, 1994, the weighted average remaining life of the interest
rate swap agreements in effect was 4.6 years.  The weighted average floating
rates and fixed rates on the contracts outstanding were:








6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

      Floating rates are based primarily on LIBOR and may change significantly,
affecting future cash flows.  The net impact of the interest rate swap program
on interest expense was a decrease of $14 million and $6 million in 1994 and
1993, respectively.  The impact on the Company's weighted-average borrowing
rate for the periods presented is immaterial.

      FUEL PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT

      American enters into fuel swap contracts to protect against increases in
jet fuel prices.  Under the agreements, American receives or makes payments
based on the difference between a fixed price and a variable price for certain
fuel commodities.  At December 31, 1994, American had agreements with
broker-dealers to exchange payments on approximately 378 million gallons of
fuel products which represents approximately 14 percent of its expected 1995
fuel needs.  The Company does not expect the fuel price hedging program to have
a material effect on liquidity.  The fair value of the Company's fuel swap
agreements at December 31, 1994, representing the amount the Company would
receive to terminate the agreements, was immaterial.

      FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT

      To hedge against the risk of future currency exchange rate fluctuations
on certain debt and lease obligations and related interest payable in foreign
currencies, the Company has entered into various foreign currency exchange
agreements.  Changes in the value of the agreements due to exchange rate
fluctuations are offset by changes in the value of the foreign currency
denominated debt and lease obligations translated at the current rate.  The net
fair values of the Company's currency exchange agreements, representing the
amount AMR would receive to terminate the agreements, were:



      The Swiss Franc agreement carries an exchange rate of 1.63 Francs per
U.S. dollar.  The exchange rates on the Japanese Yen agreements range from
66.50 to 137.26 Yen per U.S. dollar.

      At the present time, the Company has no significant unhedged exposure to
foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.






6.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

      FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

      The fair values of the Company's long-term debt were estimated using
quoted market prices, where available.  For long-term debt not actively traded,
fair values were estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the
Company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing
arrangements.  The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's long-term
debt, including current maturities, were (in millions):




7.    INCOME TAXES

      The significant components of the income tax provision (benefit) were (in
millions):



      The income tax provision (benefit) includes a federal income tax
provision of $108 million for the year ended December 31, 1994, and a federal
income tax benefit of $30 million and $219 million for the years ended December
31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

      In addition, a deferred tax benefit of $120 million was recognized for
the adjustment to the minimum pension liability in the year ended December 31,
1994.

      Effective January 1, 1992, AMR adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," (FAS 109), changing its
method of accounting for income taxes.  As permitted under the new rules, prior
years' financial statements have not been restated to reflect the change in
accounting method.  The cumulative effect of adopting FAS 109 decreased the net
loss for the year ended December 31, 1992, by $135 million, or $1.81 per share.

      A deferred tax benefit of $322 million was recognized in the year ended
December 31, 1992, upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than
Pensions," (FAS 106).






7.    INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

      The income tax provision (benefit) differed from amounts computed at the
statutory federal income tax rate as follows (in millions):




      The components of AMR's deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in
millions):



      At December 31, 1994, AMR had available for federal income tax purposes
approximately $348 million of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards
available for an indefinite period, and approximately $2.1 billion of net
operating loss carryforwards for regular tax purposes which expire as follows:
2007 - $970 million, 2008 - $838 million, and 2009 - $247 million.






8.    PREFERRED STOCK AND COMMON STOCK RIGHTS

      In 1993, AMR issued 2.2 million shares of 6% Series A cumulative
convertible preferred stock, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $1.1
billion.  At the holder's option, each preferred share is convertible into
6.3492 shares of common stock at any time.  At the Company's option after
February 1, 1996, the preferred shares are redeemable at specified redemption
prices.  In 1994, AMR exchanged $1.02 billion in face value of newly issued
6.125% convertible subordinated debentures due 2024 for 2.04 million of the
preferred shares.  See Note 5 for a more detailed description of the
debentures.

      Each outstanding share of common stock has one preferred stock purchase
right which entitles stockholders to purchase 1/100th of a share of an
authorized series of preferred stock.  Generally, the rights will not be
exercisable until a party either acquires beneficial ownership of 10 percent of
AMR's common stock or makes a tender offer for at least 30 percent of its
common stock.  The rights, which expire in 1996, do not have voting rights and
may be redeemed by AMR at $0.05 per right at any time prior to the time that 10
percent or more of AMR's shares have been accumulated by a single acquirer or
group.  If AMR is acquired in a merger or business combination, each right has
an exercise price of $200 and can be used to purchase the common stock of the
surviving company having a market value of twice the exercise price of each
right.  As a result, the Board has reserved 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock
for possible conversion of these rights.

9.    STOCK AWARDS AND OPTIONS

      Under the 1988 Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended in 1994, (1988 Plan),
officers and key employees of AMR and its subsidiaries may be granted stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, stock
purchase rights and/or other stock-based awards.  The total number of common
shares authorized for distribution under the 1988 Plan is 7,200,000 shares.  In
the event that additional shares of the Company's common stock are issued,
7.65% of such newly issued shares will be allocated to the 1988 Plan, provided
that the maximum number of shares which may be allocated to the 1988 Plan may
not exceed the total number of authorized shares as of December 31, 1987. The
1988 Plan will terminate no later than May 18, 1998.  Options granted are
exercisable at the market value of the stock upon grant, generally becoming
exercisable in equal annual installments over one to five years following the
date of grant and expiring 10 years from the date of grant.  Stock appreciation
rights may be granted in tandem with options awarded.  At December 31, 1994,
527,600 stock appreciation rights were outstanding.

      Stock option activity was:


(1)  At prices ranging from $39.6875 to $64.1875 in 1994, $39.6875 to
     $65.75 in 1993, and $27.6875 to $68.25 in 1992.  

(2)  Includes 21,000 and 20,000 options canceled upon exercise of stock 
     appreciation rights for 1993 and 1992, respectively.

      The aggregate purchase price of outstanding options, number of
exercisable options outstanding and stock awards available for grant were:







9.    STOCK AWARDS AND OPTIONS (CONTINUED)

      Shares of deferred stock are awarded at no cost to officers and key
employees under the 1988 Plan's Career Equity Program and will be issued upon
the individual's retirement from AMR or, in certain circumstances, will vest on
a pro rata basis.  Deferred stock activity was:



      AMR has a restricted stock incentive plan, under which officers and key
employees were awarded shares of its common stock at no cost.  At December 31,
1993, all 250,000 shares authorized for issuance in connection with the plan
had been granted.  Vesting of the shares occurs generally over a five-year
period.

      A new performance share plan was implemented in 1993 under the terms of
which shares of deferred stock are awarded at no cost to officers and key
employees under the 1988 Plan.  The shares vest over a three-year performance
period based upon AMR's ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted total assets.
Performance share activity was:



      At December 31, 1994, 21.6 million shares of AMR's common stock were
reserved for the issuance of stock upon the conversion of convertible preferred
stock and convertible subordinated debentures, the exercise of options, and the
issuance of restricted stock and deferred stock.






10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

      Substantially all employees of American and employees of certain other
subsidiaries are eligible to participate in pension plans.  The defined benefit
plans provide benefits for participating employees based on years of service
and average compensation for a specified period of time before retirement.
Airline pilots and flight engineers also participate in defined contribution
plans for which Company contributions are determined as a percentage of
participant compensation.

      Total costs for all pension plans were (in millions):



(1)   In late 1994, AMR offered early retirement programs to select groups
      of employees as part of its restructuring efforts.  In accordance with 
      FAS 88, AMR recognized additional pension expense of $154 million         
      associated with these programs.  Of this amount, $120 million was for
      special termination benefits and $34 million was for the actuarial loss
      resulting from the early retirements.






10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

      The funded status and actuarial present value of benefit obligations of
the defined benefit plans were (in millions):


   (1)   AMR's funding policy is to make contributions equal to, or in excess
         of, the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
         Security Act of 1974.

      Plan assets consist primarily of government and corporate debt
securities, marketable equity securities, and money market and mutual fund
shares, of which approximately $141 million and $99 million of plan assets at
December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively, were invested in shares of mutual
funds managed by a subsidiary of AMR.

      The projected benefit obligation was calculated using weighted average
discount rates of 8.75%, 7.50% and 9.00% at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively; rates of increase for compensation of 4.40% at December 31, 1994
and 1993, and 4.90% at December 31, 1992; and the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality
Table.  The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on assets was
9.50% in 1994, 10.50% in 1993 and 11.25% in 1992.  The vested benefit
obligation and plan assets at fair value at December 31, 1994, for plans whose
benefits are guaranteed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation were $3.2
billion and $3.3 billion, respectively.






10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

      In addition to pension benefits, other postretirement benefits, including
certain health care and life insurance benefits, are also provided to retired
employees.  The amount of health care benefits is limited to lifetime maximums
as outlined in the plan.  Substantially all employees of American and employees
of certain other subsidiaries may become eligible for these benefits if they
satisfy eligibility requirements during their working lives.

      Certain employee groups make contributions toward funding a portion of
their retiree health care benefits during their working lives.  AMR funds
benefits as incurred and began, effective January 1993, to match employee
prefunding.

      Effective January 1, 1992, AMR adopted FAS 106, changing the method of
accounting for these benefits.  Prior to 1992, other postretirement benefit
expense was recognized by expensing health care claims incurred and annual life
insurance premiums.  The cumulative effect of adopting FAS 106 as of January 1,
1992, was a charge of $917 million ($595 million after tax, or $7.95 per
share).

      Net other postretirement benefit cost was (in millions):



      In addition to net other postretirement benefit cost, in late 1994, AMR
offered early retirement programs to select groups of employees as part of its
restructuring efforts.  In accordance with FAS 106, AMR recognized additional
other postretirement benefit expense of $71 million associated with these
programs.  Of this amount, $43 million was for special termination benefits and
$28 million was for the net actuarial loss resulting from the early
retirements.

      The funded status of the plan, reconciled to the accrued other
postretirement benefit cost recognized in AMR's balance sheet, was (in
millions):





10.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)

     Plan assets consist primarily of shares of a mutual fund managed by a
subsidiary of AMR.

      For 1994, future benefit costs were estimated assuming per capita cost of
covered medical benefits would increase at a nine percent annual rate,
decreasing gradually to a 4 percent annual growth rate in 2000 and thereafter.
A one percent increase in this annual trend rate would have increased the
accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 1994, by
approximately $100 million and 1994 other postretirement benefit cost by
approximately $19 million.  In 1993, future benefit costs were estimated
assuming per capita cost of covered medical benefits would increase at an 11
percent annual rate, decreasing gradually to a 4 percent annual growth rate in
2000 and thereafter.  The weighted average discount rate used in estimating the
accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation was 8.75% and 7.50% at
December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

11.   RESTRUCTURING COSTS

      In 1994, the Company recorded $278 million for restructuring costs which
included (in millions):

         

      Approximately 1,700 agents and 600 management employees elected early
retirement under programs offered to select groups of employees and will leave
the Company's workforce during 1995.  Cash payments associated with the early
retirement programs will be expended as required for funding the appropriate
pension and other postretirement benefit plans in future years.

      The $28 million severance provision is for additional workforce
reductions affecting approximately 2,300 agent and management personnel as a
result of scheduled service reductions and improved administrative
efficiencies.  Cash outlays for severance payments are expected to occur
substantially during 1995.

      The remaining $25 million included in the restructuring costs represents
provisions for excess leased facilities and other restructuring activities.
Cash outlays of approximately $18 million are expected to occur over the
remaining lease terms.






12.   REVENUE AND OTHER EXPENSE ITEMS

      During 1994, the Company changed its estimate of the usage patterns of
miles awarded by participating companies in American's AAdvantage frequent
flyer program.  The positive impact of the change in estimate on passenger
revenues for 1994 was $59 million.  Passenger revenues for 1993 include a $115
million positive adjustment resulting from a change in estimate relating to
certain earned passenger revenues.

      Miscellaneous - net in 1994 includes a $25 million charge related to the
loss of two regional aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle, Inc.
Miscellaneous - net in 1993 and 1992 includes provisions of $71 million and
$165 million, respectively, for losses associated with a reservations system
project and resolution of related litigation.  Also included in 1993 is a $125
million charge related to the retirement of certain McDonnell Douglas DC-10
aircraft.  Also included in Miscellaneous - net for 1992 are charges
aggregating $25 million for a cash payment representing American's share of a
multi-carrier antitrust settlement and the retirement of certain regional
aircraft.

13.   FOREIGN OPERATIONS

      American conducts operations in various foreign countries.  American's
operating revenues from foreign operations were (in millions):




14.   SEGMENT INFORMATION

      AMR's operations fall within three industry segments:  the Air
Transportation Group, The SABRE Group, and the AMR Management Services Group.
For a description of each of these groups, refer to Business on pages 1 and 2.

      The following table presents selected financial data by industry segment
(in millions):




      Identifiable assets are gross assets used by a business segment,
including an allocated portion of assets used jointly by more than one business
segment.  General corporate and other assets not allocated to business segments
were $372 million, $436 million and $319 million at December 31, 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively, and consist primarily of income tax assets.






15.   SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

      Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information and non-cash activities
(in millions):



16.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

      Unaudited summarized financial data by quarter for 1994 and 1993 (in
millions, except per share amounts):


(1)   Information on the adjustment to the earnings per share computation
      for the three months ended December 31, 1994, for the effect of the 
      preferred stock exchange is included in Note 5.






16.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (CONTINUED)

      Results for the fourth quarter of 1994 include $278 million in
restructuring costs, primarily representing the cost of early retirement
programs and severance for Air Transportation Group employees.  Results for the
fourth quarter of 1994 also include a $25 million charge related to the loss of
two regional aircraft operated by subsidiaries of AMR Eagle, Inc.  During the
second quarter of 1994, the Company changed its estimate of the usage patterns
of miles awarded by participating companies in American's AAdvantage frequent
flyer program.  The positive impact of the change in estimate on revenues for
the second, third and fourth quarters of 1994 was $35 million, $14 million, and
$10 million, as compared to the same quarters in 1993.

      Results for the second quarter of 1993 include a $115 million positive
adjustment resulting from a change in estimate relating to certain earned
passenger revenues.  Results for the second quarter of 1993 also include a $125
million charge related to the retirement of certain McDonnell Douglas DC-10
aircraft.  Results for the fourth quarter of 1993 reflect the adverse impact of
a five-day strike by American's flight attendants and also include a $71
million charge for losses associated with a reservations system project and
resolution of related litigation as well as a $25 million charge for the cost
of severance of certain employees.






ITEM 9.      DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

None.
                                    PART III
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 17, 1995.  Information concerning
the executive officers is included in Part I of this report on pages 12 and 13.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 17, 1995.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 17, 1995.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement
for the annual meeting of stockholders on May 17, 1995.

                                    PART IV
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   (1)        The financial statements listed in the accompanying index to
                 financial statements and schedules are filed as part of this
                 report.

      (2)        The schedules listed in the accompanying index to financial
                 statements and schedules are filed as part of this report.

      (3)        Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
                 (Where the amount of securities authorized to be issued under
                 any of AMR's long-term debt agreements does not exceed ten
                 percent of AMR's assets, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Item
                 601 of Regulation S-K, in lieu of filing such as an exhibit,
                 AMR hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a
                 copy of any agreement with respect to such long-term debt.)





































(b)          Reports on Form 8-K:

             None.






                                AMR CORPORATION
                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
                   COVERED BY REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                  [ITEM 14(A)]



All other schedules are omitted since the required information is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto, or since the required information is
either not present or not present in sufficient amounts.






                                                                      Exhibit 23


                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements (Form
S-8 No. 2-68366), (Form S-8 No. 33-27866), (Form S-3 No. 33-42027), (Form S-3
No. 33-46325), (Form S-3 No. 33-52121), and (Form S-4 No. 33-55191) of AMR
Corporation, and in the related Prospectuses, of our report dated February 13,
1995, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of
AMR Corporation included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended
December 31, 1994.



                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Dallas, Texas
March 22, 1995






                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                                 (IN MILLIONS)







                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                 (IN MILLIONS)




(a) Transfer to Allowance for obsolescence of inventories.






                                AMR CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                   (DEDUCTED FROM ASSET TO WHICH APPLICABLE)
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                                 (IN MILLIONS)







PART I  -  EXHIBIT 11 (A) AMR CORPORATION
                COMPUTATION OF PRIMARY EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)






                                                       PART I  -  EXHIBIT 11 (B)
                                AMR CORPORATION
                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE
                             ASSUMING FULL DILUTION
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


AMR CORPORATION

 /s/ Robert L. Crandall
 Robert L. Crandall
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

 (Principal Executive Officer)


 /s/ Donald J. Carty
 Donald J. Carty

 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date: March 15, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates noted:

Directors:

 /s/  Howard P. Allen                          /s/  Dee J. Kelly
 Howard P. Allen                               Dee J. Kelly
                                               
                                               
 /s/  Edward A. Brennan                        /s/  William Lyon
 Edward A. Brennan                             William Lyon
                                               
                                               
 /s/  David L. Boren                           /s/  Ann D. McLaughlin
 David L. Boren                                Ann D. McLaughlin
                                               
                                               
 /s/  Armando M. Codina                        /s/  Charles H. Pistor, Jr.
 Armando M. Codina                             Charles H. Pistor, Jr.
                                               
                                               
 /s/  Christopher F. Edley                     /s/  Joe M. Rodgers
 Christopher F. Edley                          Joe M. Rodgers
                                               
                                               
 /s/  Charles T. Fisher, III                   /s/  Maurice Segall
 Charles T. Fisher, III                        Maurice Segall
                                               
                                               
 /s/  Earl G. Graves                           /s/  Eugene F. Williams, Jr.
 Earl G. Graves                                Eugene F. Williams, Jr.
                                               
                                               
Date: March 15, 1995                           







                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS

          EXHIBIT          DESCRIPTION
          -------          -----------





       

                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)







                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)








                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)





                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)









                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)




(b)          Reports on Form 8-K:

             None.






