
10-K
b330117_10k.txt
ANNUAL REPORT


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K

       |X| Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
                              Exchange Act of 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2003

                                       OR

     |_| Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
                              Exchange Act of 1934
                        For the transition period from to

                                     0-29230
                              (Commission File No.)

                       TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


                  Delaware                                    51-0350842
        (State or Other Jurisdiction                       (I.R.S. Employer
      of Incorporation or Organization)                  Identification No.)


      622 Broadway, New York, New York                          10012
  (Address of principal executive offices)                    (zip code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (646) 536-2842

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                          Common Stock, $.01 par value

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X| No |_|

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. |_|

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes |X| No |_|

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was
last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the
last business day of the Registrant's most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was approximately $910,000,000.

As of January 30, 2004, there were 44,578,611 shares of the Registrant's common
stock outstanding.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:
                Proxy Statement Relating to 2004 Annual Meeting
                          (Incorporated into Part III)





                                      INDEX

                                                                           PAGE
                                                                           ----

                                     PART I.

Item 1.    Business                                                            3

Item 2.    Properties                                                         11

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings                                                  12

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                12

                                    PART II.

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
             Stockholder Matters                                              13

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data                                            14

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
             and Results of Operations                                        15

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk         38

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                        38

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
             Financial Disclosure                                             38

Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures                                            38

                                    PART III.

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                 39

Item 11.   Executive Compensation                                             39

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management     39

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                     39

Item 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services                             39

                                    PART IV.

Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K    40

           Index to Financial Statements                                      43

           Signatures                                                         87




                                     PART I


Item 1. Business

    We restated our previously issued financial statements for the fiscal years
ended October 31, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, the interim quarters of 2002 and
the first three quarters of 2003. All financial data in this report reflects the
effects of the restatement. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 2 and 19 to Consolidated
Financial Statements for details relating to the restatement.

General

    We are a leading global publisher of interactive software games designed for
personal computers, video game consoles and handheld platforms manufactured by
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. Our business has grown rapidly, with net sales
increasing from $795 million in fiscal 2002 to $1 billion in fiscal 2003, and
with net income increasing from $72 million to $98 million for these periods.

    Our Rockstar Games(R) publishing label continues to successfully create new,
proprietary brands, as well as sequels to existing brands, with broad consumer
appeal. Rockstar recently released Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne, the
sequel to the hit franchise Max Payne(R) that debuted in 2001, for the PC,
Sony's PlayStation(R) 2 and Microsoft's Xbox; a Grand Theft Auto(R) Double Pack
(consisting of Grand Theft Auto 3 and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City) for the
PlayStation 2 and Xbox; Manhunt for the PlayStation 2; and Max Payne for the
Game Boy(R) Advance. Rockstar plans to release a sequel to its most popular
franchise, Grand Theft Auto, as well as new brands, Red Dead Revolver and The
Warriors, a game based on the Paramount Pictures' classic 1979 gang drama, in
fiscal 2004.

    We also recently released Conflict: Desert Storm II: Back to Baghdad and
Starsky & Hutch for the PC, PlayStation 2 and Xbox; Ford Racing 2 for the
PlayStation 2 and Xbox; and MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch for the PlayStation 2,
PlayStation, Xbox and PC. Our Gathering publishing label released Space Colony,
Hidden & Dangerous 2, Railroad Tycoon 3 for the PC and Mafia for the PlayStation
2, and intends to release Mafia for Xbox in March 2004. We also launched the
PlayStation 2 Greatest Hits and Xbox Platinum Hits versions of Conflict: Desert
Storm, bringing our catalog of Greatest Hits products for the PlayStation 2 to
six titles and our catalog of Microsoft's Platinum Hits to two titles.

    We distribute our products as well as third-party products, hardware and
accessories to retail outlets in North America through our Jack of All Games
subsidiary. Our customers in North America include Wal-Mart, Best Buy,
Electronics Boutique, Target, GameStop, Toys "R" Us, Blockbuster and Circuit
City, and other leading national and regional drug store, supermarket and
discount store chains and specialty retailers. We also have sales, marketing and
publishing operations in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Holland, Austria,
Italy, Australia, New Zealand and Canada.

    In December 2003, we completed the acquisition of TDK Mediactive, Inc., a
California based publisher of video games based on popular licensed properties,
including The Haunted Mansion, Pirates of the Caribbean, Robotech, The Muppets,
Corvette and Star Trek.

    We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1993. Our
Internet address is www.take2games.com. We make available free of charge on our
website our periodic reports filed under applicable law as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file such material. The information on our website is not
part of this report.



The Industry

    Expanding gamer demographics has driven demand for interactive entertainment
software in recent years. Video games have increasingly become a mainstream
entertainment choice for a maturing, technologically sophisticated audience.
According to the Entertainment Software Association, the average age of
Americans who play video and PC games is 29, with an estimated 60% of all
Americans, or approximately 145 million people, playing video games on a regular
basis.

     According to NPDFunworld, sales of video game hardware and software and PC
games reached $11.2 billion in the United States in 2003. Strong demand for
interactive software games is expected to continue as a result of increasing
penetration of video game console platforms. Video game hardware manufacturers
offer platforms with more powerful and realistic graphics, backwards
compatibility (the ability to play the platforms' previous generation of games),
broadband connectivity and media convergence features. Sony has announced plans
to release two new game systems: the PSP, a handheld game platform expected to
be launched in North America in fall 2004; and the PSX, an entertainment system
incorporating a hard disk drive, a DVD recorder to record movies and television
programs, a high speed internet connection and a PlayStation 2 game machine. The
PSX was released in Japan in December 2003 and is expected to be launched in
North America in 2004.

    We have pursued a growth strategy by capitalizing on the widespread market
acceptance of video game consoles and the growing popularity of innovative
gaming experiences that appeal to more mature audiences. We have devoted our
principal efforts and resources toward developing cutting edge proprietary
intellectual properties; establishing well-known product franchises with
significant potential for sequels; building leading development studios with
multi-platform development capabilities; and focusing our creative efforts on
delivering games that are attractive to a broad demographic. Our Jack of All
Games distribution subsidiary continues to capitalize on the growing installed
base of hardware and the proliferation of software titles and outlets to
purchase software. We believe that the combination of these factors positions us
for future growth as the interactive entertainment industry continues to expand
and evolve.

Publishing

    We have consolidated our publishing operations into the following three
labels: Rockstar Games, Gathering and Global Star. Rockstar will continue to
focus on the creation of premium priced, groundbreaking entertainment. Our
Gathering label, which has historically focused on PC titles, will publish all
mid-priced and non-Rockstar premium priced products on the PC, console and
handheld platforms. Global Star will publish PC, console and handheld titles
that retail for $19.99 and below. Our Gotham Games label has been phased out.
Gotham's and TDK's product portfolios will be published by either Gathering or
Global Star depending on price point.



    Since November 2002, we have released the following titles:



    Going forward in fiscal 2004, Rockstar plans to release Red Dead Revolver, a
western-themed shooter from Rockstar San Diego, the developer of Midnight Club
and Smuggler's Run, for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. Rockstar also expects to
release The Warriors, a new title based on the Paramount Pictures film, and the
next installment in the Grand Theft Auto franchise. Rockstar anticipates the
release of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for PlayStation 2 and PC in Japan under a
license agreement with Capcom Co. Ltd. Rockstar previously released Grand Theft
Auto 3 for PlayStation 2 and PC in Japan under this agreement, which was one of
the most successful debuts of a Western title in Japan.



    Gathering's lineup includes Vietcong: Fist Alpha, an add-on to the popular
Vietcong, and Vietcong: Purple Haze, which will include Vietcong and Fist Alpha
together; Destruction Derby Arenas on PlayStation 2, the next generation
installment of the successful PlayStation franchise, Destruction Derby, complete
with online capabilities; a sequel to the Hidden & Dangerous franchise; and
several new titles under Gathering's distribution arrangement with Destineer
Publishing. Titles planned for release under the Gathering label from TDK's
portfolio include Robotech and Spy vs Spy.

    Global Star is focusing on building value-priced game franchises primarily
for console platforms across popular genres, such as racing, sports and action
games. Global Star's lineup includes Carve, a personal watercraft racing game
with online capabilities for the Xbox; Motocross Mania 3, the latest addition to
the Motocross Mania franchise; a new console release in the Virtual Pool
franchise; an extension of the Army Men franchise, Army Men: Sarge's War for
PlayStation 2 and Xbox; and sports and racing console products from TDK's
portfolio, including Corvette and UFC: Sudden Impact.

Software Content and Licensing

    We have established a portfolio of successful proprietary software content.
We own all of the intellectual property rights associated with our brands: Grand
Theft Auto; Max Payne; Midnight Club; Manhunt; Smuggler's Run; Oni; Myth; Spec
Ops; Railroad Tycoon; Tropico; Red Dead Revolver; Army Men; and School Tycoon.
We believe that content ownership facilitates our internal product development
efforts and maximizes profit potential.

    In May 2002, we acquired all of the intellectual properties associated with
the game Max Payne, as well as a royalty-free perpetual license to use the Max
Payne game engine technologies. In August 2003, we acquired all of the
intellectual properties associated with Red Dead Revolver (subject to a
distribution license in Asia) in consideration of a royalty on future product
sales and, in September 2003, we acquired all the ownership rights associated
with the Army Men brand.

    We also actively seek to acquire licenses for well-recognized properties. We
acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to create video games based on the
theatrical motion picture entitled "The Warriors." We also acquired the
exclusive worldwide publishing rights to the best-selling franchise of Duke
Nukem PC and video games, including the right to publish PC and console versions
of Duke Nukem Forever. In December 2003, we acquired exclusive rights to certain
properties owned by the Cartoon Network. We expect to continue to pursue
selective acquisitions of property rights that we believe will enhance our
prospects. See Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Software Development

    We develop most of our front-line software titles through our internal
development studios: Rockstar San Diego (formerly Angel Studios), the developer
of Midnight Club and Smuggler's Run; Rockstar North (formerly DMA Design), the
developer of the Grand Theft Auto series and Manhunt; Rockstar Toronto (a/k/a
Alternative Realities Technologies), the developer of the PlayStation 2 versions
of Max Payne and Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne; Rockstar Vancouver (a/k/a
Barking Dog Studios); Rockstar Vienna (a/k/a Neo Software), the developer of the
Xbox versions of Max Payne and Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne; PopTop
Software, the developer of the Railroad Tycoon series and Tropico; Frog City,
the developer of Tropico: Pirates Cove; and Cat Daddy Games.

    As of December 31, 2003, our internal development studios and product
development department had 625 employees with the technical capabilities to
develop and localize (translate into foreign languages and make other changes
appropriate to the territory) software titles for all major hardware platforms,
the PC and in all major territories. Currently, most of our Rockstar label
products are developed internally.

    For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we incurred
costs of $25,107,000, $11,524,000 and $6,190,000, respectively, on research and
development relating to our software titles. Additionally, for these years, we
capitalized software development costs of $15,923,000, $9,645,000 and
$6,293,000, respectively.



    Certain of our software titles are developed by third parties. Agreements
with developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and
require us to make advance royalty payments, pay royalties based on product
sales and satisfy other conditions. Royalty advances for software titles are
recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers.

    Our agreements with developers generally provide us with the right to
monitor development efforts and to cease making advance payments if specified
development milestones are not satisfied. We monitor the level of advances in
light of expected sales for the related titles and write off unrecoverable
advances to cost of sales in the period in which we determine the advance will
not be fully recouped.

    The development cycle for new console and PC titles ranges from twelve to
twenty-four months. After initial development of a product, it may take between
nine to twelve months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. The
cost to develop a front line product ranges from $3 million to $7 million.

    In connection with the acquisition of the publishing rights associated with
Duke Nukem, we entered into an agreement with Apogee Software to develop Duke
Nukem Forever for the PC. This agreement does not require us to make advances to
Apogee in connection with the development of the product. See Note 6 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Third-Party Arrangements

    In April 2003, we acquired exclusive distribution rights to eight PC games
and two console ports to be published by Destineer Publishing. For these rights,
we agreed to make recoupable advances and pay royalties to Destineer. Destineer
also granted us an immediately exercisable option to purchase an equity interest
in Destineer. The results of Destineer's operations have been consolidated in
our financial statements. See Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    In May 2003, we granted Capcom the exclusive right to publish localized
versions of Grand Theft Auto 3 and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City in Japan. We are
entitled to receive royalties from Capcom based on product sales.

    In September 2003, we entered into a distribution agreement with TDK
Mediactive. The agreement granted us the exclusive right to distribute certain
games published by TDK. In December 2003, we acquired all of the outstanding
capital stock of TDK. See Note 23 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Arrangements with Platform Manufacturers

    We have entered into license agreements with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo to
develop and publish software in North America and Europe for the PlayStation,
PlayStation 2, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and GameCube. We are not required to
obtain any licenses to develop titles for the PC.

    We entered into a Licensed Publisher Agreement with Sony Computer
Entertainment America, Inc. in May 2000. Under the agreement, Sony granted us
the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles
for the PlayStation 2 in North America. The agreement requires us to submit
products to Sony for its approval. The agreement provides for Sony to be the
exclusive manufacturer of our products for the PlayStation 2 and for us to pay
royalties to Sony based on the number of units manufactured.

    The agreement with Sony is automatically renewable for successive one-year
terms, unless terminated by Sony in the event of a breach by us or our
bankruptcy or insolvency. Sony may also terminate the agreement on a title-by-
title basis. Upon expiration or termination of all of our publishing agreements
with Sony (including those discussed below), we have certain rights to sell off
existing inventories. We also entered into a similar agreement with Sony in
March 2000 for PlayStation 2 covering European territories and Australia.



    We entered into a four-year Licensed Publisher Agreement with Sony in
November 2002 under which Sony granted us the right and license to develop,
market, publish and distribute software titles for the PlayStation in North
America. We also entered into a similar agreement with Sony in October 2000 for
PlayStation covering European territories and Australia.

    We entered into a Publisher License Agreement with Microsoft in December
2000. Under the agreement, Microsoft granted us the right and license to
develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for Microsoft's Xbox in
territories to be determined on a title-by-title basis. The agreement requires
us to submit products to Microsoft for its approval and for us to make royalty
payments to Microsoft based on the number of units manufactured. Products for
the Xbox must be manufactured by pre-approved manufacturers. The agreement may
be terminated by either party in the event of a material breach and expires in
November 2004. Microsoft also has the right to terminate on a title-by-title
basis. Upon expiration or termination of the agreement, we have certain rights
to sell off existing inventories.

    We entered into a three-year Confidential License Agreement with Nintendo in
November 2001. Under the agreement, Nintendo granted us the right and license to
develop, market, publish and distribute software for Nintendo's GameCube in the
western hemisphere. The agreement requires us to submit products to Nintendo for
its approval. The agreement also provides for Nintendo to be the exclusive
manufacturer of our products and for us to make royalty payments to Nintendo
based on the number of units manufactured. The agreement may be terminated by
either party in the event of a breach and may be terminated by Nintendo in the
event of our bankruptcy. Upon termination of all of our agreements with Nintendo
(including those discussed below), we have certain rights to sell off existing
inventories. We also entered into a similar three-year agreement with Nintendo
in November 2001 for GameCube covering European territories.

    We entered into a three-year agreement with Nintendo in July 2001, granting
us the right and license to develop software for Nintendo's Game Boy Advance in
the Western Hemisphere. In October 2001, we entered into a similar three-year
agreement with Nintendo for European territories.

Sales and Marketing

    We sell software titles to retail outlets in North America and Europe
through direct relationships with large retail customers and third-party
distributors. Our customers in North America include Wal-Mart, Best Buy,
Electronics Boutique, Target, GameStop, Toys "R" Us, Blockbuster and Circuit
City and other leading mass merchandisers; video, electronic and toy stores;
national and regional drug stores; supermarket and discount store chains; and
specialty retailers. Our European customers include Dixons, Game Group (formerly
Electronics Boutique), Karstadt, Carrefour and Media Saturn. We have sales and
marketing operations in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Holland, Austria,
Italy, Australia, New Zealand and Canada.

    For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2003, sales to our five largest
customers accounted for approximately 38.6% of our net sales. Wal-Mart accounted
for 11.4% of our net sales for the year ended October 31, 2003. No other
customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for this year.

    Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize exposure and
broaden distribution of our titles, promote brand name recognition, assist
retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. We market
titles by implementing public relations campaigns, using print and on-line
advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor advertising. For fiscal 2003,
we incurred selling and marketing costs of $103,015,000. We label and market our
products in accordance with Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB)
principles and guidelines.

    Our Rockstar Games subsidiary actively pursues relationships with
participants in the music and entertainment industries. We believe that the
shared demographics between various media and some of the software titles
marketed by Rockstar Games provide excellent cross-promotional opportunities. We
have been working with popular recording artists to create sophisticated game
soundtracks, have entered into agreements to license high-profile names and
likenesses, and have arrangements for co-branding opportunities. Our goal is to
accelerate the acceptance of our titles, create brand awareness and expand our
portfolio of franchise brands.



    To date, Max Payne, Midnight Club, Conflict: Desert Storm, Smuggler's Run,
Grand Theft Auto 3 and State of Emergency have been designated Sony's Greatest
Hits Program titles, and Max Payne and Conflict: Desert Storm have been
designated Microsoft's Platinum Hits Program titles. To qualify for these
programs under our agreements with hardware manufacturers, our products had to
satisfy certain shelf life and sales requirements. In connection with these
programs, we receive a manufacturing discount from Sony and Microsoft. Nintendo
has also established a Player's Choice Program for the Nintendo GameCube.

    We seek to stimulate continued sales and maximize profit potential by
reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times
during the life of a product. Price concessions may occur at any time in a
product's life cycle, but typically occur six to nine months after a product's
initial launch. A significant amount of our price concessions to retailers
relates to products designated as a Greatest or Platinum Hits Program title
offered by Sony and Microsoft. Price concessions in fiscal 2003 and 2002
amounted to $33,429,000 and $29,267,000, respectively. In certain international
markets, we provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales.

    We also employ various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer
awareness, including in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct
mail, cooperative advertising, as well as attendance at trade shows. We employ
separate sales forces for our publishing and distribution operations. As of
December 31, 2003, we had a sales and marketing staff of 224 persons.

Distribution

    We distribute our own titles as well as third-party titles, hardware and
accessories through our subsidiaries. We distribute three major categories of
third-party console and handheld products, consisting principally of newly
released and popular software titles, budget and catalog software titles, and
hardware.

    We procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase
orders based on our assessment of market demand, as well as pre-orders from
retailers. We periodically enter into agreements with our suppliers that provide
exclusive distribution rights to certain products. We carry inventory quantities
that we believe are necessary to provide rapid response time to retailer orders.
We utilize electronic data interchange ("EDI") with many of our retailers to
enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders and receiving payments.

    Our Jack of All Games subsidiary maintains warehouse facilities and sales
offices in Ohio and Toronto, Canada. Products arrive at our warehouses where
products are picked, packed and shipped to customers. We generally ship products
by common carrier. Because we generally ship products within seven days of
receipt of orders, backlog is not material to our business.

    Jack of All Games continues to capitalize on the growing installed base of
hardware and the proliferation of software titles and outlets to purchase
software. It has established a strong presence in the budget segment of the
business due to its expanding portfolio of value-priced products and its
expertise in selling these titles. Jack of All Games continues to leverage this
strategy by serving as the exclusive distributor of our value-priced published
products, including Starsky & Hutch, MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch, Ford Racing 2
and Ford Mania. Global Star's products are sold exclusively through Jack of All
Games, which we believe further strengthens its position in the value-priced
product business. We are consolidating Jack of All Games' United States and
Canadian distribution businesses on an operational basis, which we believe will
extend the reach of our domestic value console business into Canada.



Manufacturing

    Sony and Nintendo are the sole manufacturers of software products sold for
use on their respective hardware platforms. We begin the manufacturing process
for our published titles by placing a purchase order for the manufacture of our
products with Sony or Nintendo and opening either a letter of credit in favor of
the manufacturer or utilizing our line of credit with the manufacturer. We then
send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer, together
with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and
packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. Games
manufactured by Sony and Nintendo are generally shipped within two weeks of
receipt of our manufacturing order. The same procedure applies to games for the
Xbox. Xbox games must be manufactured by pre-approved manufacturers and are
generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order.

    Production of PC software includes CD-ROM pressing, assembly of components,
printing of packaging and user manuals and shipping of finished goods, which is
performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our specifications, and, to
a limited extent, by us. We believe that there are alternative sources for these
services that could be obtained without delay. We send software code and a
prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty
information, brochures and packaging designs to the manufacturers. Games are
generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order.

    To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the
manufacture of our titles or material delays due to manufacturing defects. Our
software titles carry a 90-day limited warranty.

Competition

    In our publishing business, we compete both for licenses to properties and
the sale of interactive entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and
Nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its
own platforms. Each of these competitors has the financial resources to
withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising
campaigns, particularly for prime-time television spots. These companies may
also increase their own software development efforts or focus on developing
software products for third-party platforms.

    We also compete with domestic companies such as Electronic Arts, Activision,
THQ, Acclaim Entertainment, Midway Games and Atari and international companies
such as Sega, Vivendi, Ubi Soft, Eidos, Capcom, Konami and Namco. In addition,
we believe that large software companies and media companies are increasing
their focus on the interactive entertainment software market. Certain of our
competitors are developing on-line interactive games and interactive networks
that may compete with our products for consumer dollars. Some of our competitors
have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do, and
are able to carry larger inventories and make higher offers to licensors and
developers for commercially desirable properties than we can. Competition in the
entertainment software industry is based on product quality and features; brand
name recognition; access to distribution channels; effectiveness of marketing;
and price.

    Retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and
competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced
entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space
and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to
increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures just to
maintain current levels of sales of our titles. Competitors with more extensive
lines and popular titles frequently have greater bargaining power with
retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of support and
shelf space that such competitors receive. Similarly, as competition for popular
properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties is
likely to increase, possibly resulting in reduced margins. Prolonged price
competition, increased licensing costs or reduced operating margins would cause
our profits to decrease significantly.

    Competition for our titles is influenced by the timing of competitive
product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may
result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our titles at
retail stores. Our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as
motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar
themes, on-line computer programs and other forms of entertainment which may be
less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.



    In our distribution business, we compete with large national companies such
as Ingram Entertainment, as well as smaller regional distributors. We also
compete with the efforts of the major entertainment software companies that
distribute directly to retailers or over the Internet. Some of our competitors
have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do, and
are able to carry larger inventories, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and
provide more comprehensive product selection than we can.

Intellectual Property

    We develop proprietary software titles and have obtained the rights to
publish and distribute software titles developed by third parties. We attempt to
protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and
trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure,
copying and distribution. Although we generally do not hold any patents, we seek
to obtain trademark and copyright registrations for our products.

    Interactive entertainment software is susceptible to unauthorized copying.
Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our titles
to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as
proprietary. In addition, our competitors could independently develop
technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies.

    As the amount of interactive entertainment software in the market increases
and the functionality of this software further overlaps, we believe that
interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of
claims that such software infringes the copyrights or patents of others. From
time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging infringement of
their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our titles and the titles and
technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have
contractual relationships do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary
rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of
others may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be
time-consuming, costly and difficult to defend.

International Operations

    Sales in international markets, principally in the United Kingdom and other
countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales.
For the fiscal years October 31, 2003 and 2002, sales in international markets
accounted for approximately 27.9% and 20.0%, respectively, of our net sales. We
are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit
risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic
developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating
results. See Note 21 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

    As of December 31, 2003, we had 1,226 full-time employees. None of our
employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our
relations with employees to be good.

Item 2. Properties

    In September 2002, we relocated our principal executive offices to 622
Broadway, New York, New York in approximately 50,000 square feet of space under
a ten-year lease which provides for annual rent of approximately $1,500,000. In
July 2003, we entered into a sublease for an additional 15,000 square feet at
this location for an annual rent of approximately $368,000.

    We also maintain offices at 575 Broadway, New York, New York in
approximately 13,300 square feet of space under a lease with 575 Broadway
Corporation, a company controlled by the father of Ryan A. Brant, our Chairman.
The lease provides for an annual rent of approximately $513,000 and expires in
March 2004. We believe that the terms of the lease are no less favorable than
could have been obtained from an unaffiliated third-party. We intend to relocate
our 575 Broadway operations to 622 Broadway.



    Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited leases 12,500 square feet of
office space in Windsor, United Kingdom. The lease provides for a current annual
rent of approximately $572,000, plus taxes and utilities, and expires in 2011.
Rockstar North Limited (formerly DMA Design Limited) currently leases 14,600
square feet of office space in Edinburgh, Scotland, at an annual rent of
approximately $540,000, which expires in June 2009. Jack of All Games, Inc.
leases approximately 206,000 square feet of office and warehouse space in
Cincinnati, Ohio. Jack of All Games, Inc. pays $750,000 per annum, plus taxes
and insurance, under the lease, which expires in January 2006.

    In addition, our other subsidiaries lease office space in Ontario and
Vancouver, Canada; Paris, France; Munich, Germany; Sydney, Australia; Aukland,
New Zealand; Amsterdam, Holland; Milan, Italy; Vienna, Austria; London, Lincoln
and Leighton Buzzard, UK and in Baltimore, Maryland; San Diego, San Francisco
and Los Angeles, California; Fenton, Missouri; Austin, Texas and Bellevue,
Washington for an aggregate annual rent of approximately $2,329,000.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

    We received a Wells Notice from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange
Commission stating the Staff's intention to recommend that the SEC bring a civil
action seeking an injunction and monetary damages against us alleging that we
violated certain provisions of the federal securities laws. The proposed
allegations stem from the previously disclosed SEC investigation into certain
accounting matters related to our financial statements, periodic reporting and
internal accounting controls. Our Chairman, an employee and two former officers
also received Wells Notices. The SEC's Staff also raised issues with respect to
our revenue recognition policies and its impact on our current and historical
financial statements. We have entered into discussions with the Staff to address
the issues raised in the Wells Notice. See Note 2 to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

    On October 22, 2003, the action that had been filed on October 20, 2003 in
the Fourth Judicial District for the State of Tennessee Circuit Court of Cocke
County entitled Hamel vs. Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc., seeking
compensatory and punitive damages of $246,000,000 arising from the use of one of
our video games, was removed by us to the US District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee. On October 24, 2003, that action was voluntarily
dismissed by the plaintiffs without prejudice.

    We are also involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of our
business, which in management's opinion will not have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

    On November 17, 2003, at a special meeting, our stockholders voted to amend
our certificate of incorporation to increase our authorized shares of common
stock from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000. At the meeting, 32,869,810 shares voted
for the amendment, 2,663,909 shares voted against and 6,564 shares abstained.



                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

    Market Information. Our common stock has traded since September 23, 1998 on
the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "TTWO." From April 14, 1997 to
September 22, 1998, our common stock traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market. The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of the high and
low sales prices for the common stock as reported by NASDAQ.

    Fiscal Year Ended October 31, 2002                           High      Low
    ----------------------------------                           ----      ---

    First Quarter ..........................................    $19.50   $ 9.30
    Second Quarter .........................................     26.90    14.00
    Third Quarter ..........................................     27.05    16.09
    Fourth Quarter .........................................     30.78    19.36

    Fiscal Year Ended October 31, 2003
    ----------------------------------

    First Quarter ..........................................    $31.48   $19.83
    Second Quarter .........................................     24.19    18.30
    Third Quarter ..........................................     31.40    21.66
    Fourth Quarter .........................................     41.67    24.35

    Fiscal Year Ending October 31, 2004
    -----------------------------------

    First Quarter ..........................................    $40.91   $27.42

    The last reported sale price for our common stock on January 30, 2004 was
$29.00. The number of record holders of our common stock was approximately 123
as of January 30, 2004. We believe that there are in excess of 1,000 beneficial
owners of our common stock.

    Dividend Policy. To date, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends.
The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the discretion of the
board of directors and will depend upon future earnings, capital requirements
and other relevant factors. Our loan agreement with the bank prohibits us from
paying cash dividends. We presently intend to retain all earnings to finance
continued growth and development of our business and we do not expect to declare
or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

    Changes in Securities. During the three months ended October 31, 2003, we
issued 10,000 shares of restricted common stock to an employee under our
Incentive Stock Plan. In connection with the above securities issuance, we
relied on Section 4(2) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

    Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans. The
table setting forth this information is included in Part III - Item 12. Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

    Our consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and Consolidated Financial Statements (including the notes thereto)
contained elsewhere in this report.

    We restated our previously issued financial statements for the fiscal years
ended October 31, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, the interim quarters of 2002 and
the first three quarters of 2003 to reflect our revised revenue recognition
policy. Under this policy, we recognize as a reduction of net sales a reserve
for estimated future price concessions in the period in which the sale is
recorded. Measurement of the reserve is based on, among other factors, an
historical analysis of price concessions, an assessment of field inventory
levels and sell-through for each product, current industry conditions and other
factors affecting the estimated timing and amount of concessions management
believes will be granted. We previously recognized price concession reserves in
the period in which we communicated the price concessions to our customers. We
also restated our financial statements for the fiscal years ended October 31,
2000 and 2001 to increase our provision for returns at October 31, 2000 by
approximately $4.9 million for certain sales transactions primarily to retail
customers in fiscal 2000, and to reflect the fiscal 2001 returns as a reduction
of the revised October 31, 2000 reserve for returns rather than the previously
reported reduction of sales in fiscal 2001. Additionally, fiscal 2000 and 2001
revenues were restated for approximately $0.2 million to adjust for sales
cut-off transactions at the end of fiscal 2000. See Notes 2 and 19 to
Consolidated Financial Statements for details relating to the restatement.

                       (In thousands, except per share data)



- ---------------

(1) Includes approximately $23.8 million of net sales, $8.7 million of income
    from operations and $5.2 million of income included in loss before
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, representing the effect
    of the adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin 101 "Revenue Recognition" (SAB
    101) in the first quarter of fiscal 2001. There was no impact on net loss.

    As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145,
    "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment to FASB Statement
    No. 13, and Technical Corrections", the $1,948 net loss on extinguishment of
    debt for the year ended October 31, 2001 previously classified as an
    extraordinary item has been reclassified as follows: $3,165 of loss on
    extinguishment to non-operating expenses (included within loss before
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle) and $1,217 of tax
    benefit to benefit for income taxes in the above table.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
        Results of Operations
        (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Restatement of Historical Financial Statements

    We restated our previously issued financial statements for the fiscal years
ended October 31, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, the interim quarters of 2002 and the
first three quarters of 2003 to reflect our revised revenue recognition policy.
Under this policy, we recognize as a reduction of net sales a reserve for
estimated future price concessions in the period in which the sale is recorded.
Measurement of the reserve is based on, among other factors, an historical
analysis of price concessions, an assessment of field inventory levels and
sell-through for each product, current industry conditions and other factors
affecting the estimated timing and amount of concessions management believes
will be granted. We previously recognized price concession reserves in the
period in which we communicated the price concessions to our customers. We also
restated our financial statements for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2000
and 2001 to increase our provision for returns at October 31, 2000 by
approximately $4.9 million for certain sales transactions primarily to retail
customers in fiscal 2000, and to reflect the fiscal 2001 returns as a reduction
of the revised October 31, 2000 reserve for returns rather than the previously
reported reduction of sales in fiscal 2001. Additionally, fiscal 2000 and 2001
revenues were restated for approximately $0.2 million to adjust for sales
cut-off transactions at the end of fiscal 2000. See Notes 2 and 19 to
Consolidated Financial Statements for details relating to the restatement.

    Our 2002 financial statements have been restated as follows:

                                                              Year Ended
                                                           October 31, 2002
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -------------------------
Statement of Operations Data:
  Net sales                                             $793,976       $794,676
  Product costs                                         $410,118       $411,518
  Royalties                                             $ 80,774       $ 80,442
  Cost of sales                                         $499,016       $500,084
  Gross Profit                                          $294,960       $294,592
  Depreciation and amortization                         $ 11,187       $ 10,829
  Income from operations                                $122,715       $122,705
  Income before provision for income taxes              $120,948       $120,938
  Provision for income taxes                            $ 49,383       $ 49,375
  Net income                                            $ 71,565       $ 71,563
  Basic net income per share                            $   1.88       $   1.88
  Diluted net income per share                          $   1.81       $   1.81

                                                           October 31, 2002
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -------------------------
Balance Sheet Data:
  Accounts receivable, net                              $107,188       $105,576
  Prepaid royalties, current                            $ 13,723       $ 14,215
  Deferred tax asset                                    $  5,392       $  6,245
  Total current assets                                  $328,632       $328,365
  Total assets                                          $491,707       $491,440
  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities        $ 49,821       $ 50,698
  Income taxes payable                                  $  1,603       $  1,357
  Total current liabilities                             $131,179       $131,810
  Retained earnings                                     $ 87,804       $ 86,906
  Total liabilities and stockholders' equity            $491,707       $491,440

All applicable amounts relating to the aforementioned restatements have been
reflected in these consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.



Our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended October 31, 2001 has
been restated as follows:

                                                               Year Ended
                                                           October 31, 2001
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -------------------------
Statement of Operations Data:
  Net sales                                             $448,801       $451,396
  Product costs                                         $283,522       $282,279
  Royalties                                             $ 18,573       $ 19,875
  Cost of sales                                         $306,264       $306,323
  Gross Profit                                          $142,537       $145,073
  Income from operations                                $ 25,841       $ 28,377
  Loss before benefit for income taxes and
    cumulative change in accounting principle *         $ (6,660)      $ (4,124)
  Benefit for income taxes *                            $ (3,417)      $ (2,450)
  Net loss before cumulative change in accounting
    principle                                           $ (3,243)      $ (1,674)
  Cumulative change in accounting principle             $ (5,337)      $ (5,244)
  Net loss                                              $ (8,580)      $ (6,918)
  Basic net loss per share                              $  (0.25)      $  (0.20)
  Diluted net loss per share                            $  (0.25)      $  (0.20)

- ---------------

* As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145,
"Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment to FASB Statement No.
13, and Technical Corrections" ("SFAS 145"), the $1,948 net loss on
extinguishment of debt for the year ended October 31, 2001 previously classified
as an extraordinary item has been reclassified in the As Reported column as
follows: $3,165 of loss on extinguishment to non-operating expenses and $1,217
of tax benefit to benefit for income taxes in the above table.

Overview

    We are a leading global publisher of interactive software games designed for
personal computers, video game consoles and handheld platforms manufactured by
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. We also distribute our products as well as
third-party products, hardware and accessories to retail outlets in North
America through our Jack of Games subsidiary, and we have sales, marketing and
publishing operations in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Holland, Austria,
Italy, Australia, New Zealand and Canada.

    Our principal sources of revenue are derived from publishing and
distribution operations. Publishing revenues are derived from the sale of
internally developed software titles or software titles licensed from third
parties. Operating margins in our publishing business are dependent upon our
ability to continually release new, commercially successful products. We develop
most of our front-line products internally, and we own all of our major
intellectual properties, which we believe permits us to maximize profitability.

    Our distribution revenues are derived from the sale of third-party software
titles, accessories and hardware. Operating margins in our distribution business
are dependent on the mix of software and hardware sales, with software
generating higher margins than hardware. Publishing activities generate
significantly higher margins than distribution activities, with sales of PC
software titles resulting in higher margins than sales of products designed for
video game consoles.

    We have pursued a growth strategy by capitalizing on the widespread market
acceptance of video game consoles and the growing popularity of innovative
gaming experiences that appeal to more mature audiences. We have established a
portfolio of successful proprietary software content, including our premier
brands: Grand Theft Auto, Max Payne and Midnight Club, for the major hardware
platforms. We expect to continue to be the leader in the mature, action product
category by leveraging our existing franchises and developing new brands, such
as Manhunt.



    We currently anticipate that the release of new brands in fiscal 2004,
including The Warriors and Red Dead Revolver, along with the launch of the next
installment of Grand Theft Auto, will generate significant cash flow from our
publishing business. We also believe that we will be able to continue to grow
our distribution business through a combination of our retail relationships and
our value product offerings.

    Historically, each generation of video game consoles and handheld platforms
experiences a gradual decrease in retail pricing over the life of the system,
with retail pricing for software titles following a similar trend. The
PlayStation 2 and Xbox were introduced several years ago, and have been reduced
in price since their launch, with additional price reductions anticipated to
occur in 2004. Reduced pricing for our titles could result in lower margins for
our published products and reduced growth rates in our publishing business.
However, as retail prices for interactive entertainment hardware and software
decline, our distribution business benefits from the wider availability of
higher margin, value priced software titles.

Estimates

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the
reporting periods. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to the
recoverability of prepaid royalties, capitalized software development costs and
other intangibles, inventories, realization of deferred income taxes and the
adequacy of allowances for returns, price concessions and doubtful accounts.
Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

    We recognize revenue upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to our
customers. We apply the provisions of Statement of Position 97-2, "Software
Revenue Recognition" in conjunction with the applicable provisions of Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition." Accordingly, we recognize
revenue for software when there is (1) persuasive evidence that an arrangement
with our customer exists, which is generally a customer purchase order, (2) the
software is delivered, (3) the selling price is fixed or determinable and (4)
collection of the customer receivable is deemed probable. Our payment
arrangements with customers typically provide net 30 and 60-day terms.

    Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and
price concessions. In specific circumstances when we do not have a reliable
basis to estimate returns and price concessions or are unable to determine that
collection of receivables is probable, we defer the sale until such time as we
can reliably estimate any related returns and allowances and determine that
collection of the receivables is probable.

Allowances for Returns and Price Concessions

    We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our
publishing arrangements. Following reductions in the price of our products, we
grant price concessions to permit customers to take credits against amounts they
owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. Our customers must satisfy
certain conditions to entitle them to return products or receive price
concessions, including compliance with applicable payment terms and confirmation
of field inventory levels.

    Our distribution arrangements with customers do not give them the right to
return titles or to cancel firm orders. However, we sometimes accept returns
from our distribution customers for stock balancing and make accommodations to
customers, which includes credits and returns, when demand for specific titles
falls below expectations.

    We make estimates of future product returns and price concessions related to
current period product revenue. We estimate the amount of future returns and
price concessions for published titles based upon, among other factors,
historical experience, customer inventory levels, analysis of sell-through rates
and changes in demand and acceptance of our products by consumers.



    Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in
connection with establishing the allowance for returns and price concessions in
any accounting period. We believe we can make reliable estimates of returns and
price concessions. However, actual results may differ from initial estimates as
a result of changes in circumstances, market conditions and assumptions.
Adjustments to estimates are recorded in the period in which they become known.

Prepaid Royalties

    Our agreements with licensors and developers generally provide us with
exclusive publishing rights and require us to make advance royalty payments that
are recouped against royalties due to the licensor or developer based on product
sales. Prepaid royalties are amortized as cost of sales on a title by title
basis based on the greater of the proportion of current year sales to total of
current and estimated future sales for that title or the contractual royalty
rate based on actual net product sales. We continually evaluate the
recoverability of prepaid royalties and charge to cost of sales the amount that
management determines is probable that will not be recouped at the contractual
royalty rate in the period in which such determination is made or if we
determine that we will cancel a development project. Prepaid royalties are
classified as current and non-current assets based upon estimated net product
sales within the next year. See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Capitalized Software Development Costs

    We capitalize internal software development costs subsequent to establishing
technological feasibility of a title. Capitalized software development costs
represent the costs associated with the internal development of our publishing
products. Amortization of such costs as a component of cost of sales is recorded
on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the proportion of current year
sales to total of current and estimated future sales for the title or the
straight-line method over the remaining estimated useful life of the title. We
continually evaluate the recoverability of capitalized software costs and will
charge to cost of sales any amounts that are deemed unrecoverable or for
projects that we will abandon. See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income Taxes

    Income tax assets and liabilities are determined by taxable jurisdiction. We
do not provide taxes on undistributed earnings of our international
subsidiaries. The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
was approximately $60,700 and $41,900 for the years ended October 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively. It is our intention to reinvest undistributed earnings of
our foreign subsidiaries and thereby indefinitely postpone their remittance.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for foreign withholding taxes or United
States income taxes which may become payable if undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries are paid as dividends to us. The realization of deferred
tax assets depends on whether the Company generates future taxable income of the
appropriate type. In addition, we may adopt tax planning strategies to realize
these assets. If future taxable income does not materialize or tax planning
strategies are not effective, we may be required to record a valuation
allowance.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

    In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Obligations
Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 143"). The objective
of SFAS 143 is to provide accounting guidance for legal obligations associated
with the retirement of long-lived assets. The provisions of SFAS 143 are
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June
15, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 143 in fiscal 2003 did not have an impact on our
financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

    In April 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment to FASB
Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections" ("SFAS 145"). SFAS 145 eliminates
the requirement (in SFAS No. 4) that gains and losses from the extinguishments
of debt be aggregated and classified as extraordinary items, net of the related
income tax. As a result of the adoption of this pronouncement, the $1,948 net
loss on extinguishment of debt for the year ended October 31, 2001 classified as
an extraordinary item was reclassified as follows: $3,165 of loss on
extinguishment to non-operating expenses and $1,217 of tax benefit to provision
for income taxes. The adoption of SFAS 145 in fiscal 2003 did not have any
impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, other
than the reclassification referred to above.



    In January 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities"
("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146 requires the recognition of such costs when they are
incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan.
The provisions of SFAS 146 are to be applied prospectively to exit or disposal
activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 146 in the
first quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have a material impact on our financial
condition and results of operations.

    In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and
Disclosure" ("SFAS 148"). SFAS 148 amends the transition provisions of FASB No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), for entities that
voluntarily change to the fair value method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation. We do not currently intend to change our accounting to
the fair value method. SFAS 148 also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS
123 to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net income of
an entity's accounting policy decisions with respect to stock-based employee
compensation and amends APB Opinion No. 28, "Interim Financial Reporting" ("APB
28") to require disclosures about such effects in interim financial information.
The disclosure provisions of the amendments to FASB 123 were adopted by us in
the second quarter of fiscal 2003.

    In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 expands previously
issued accounting guidance and disclosure requirements for certain guarantees
and requires recognition of an initial liability for the fair value of an
obligation assumed by issuing a guarantee. The provision for initial recognition
and measurement of liability will be applied on a prospective basis to
guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption of FIN 45 in
the first quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have any impact on our financial
condition or results of operations.

    In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"). FIN 46 requires a variable interest
entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority
of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity's activities or is
entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual return or both. FIN 46
also provides criteria for determining whether an entity is a variable interest
entity subject to consolidation. FIN 46 requires immediate consolidation of
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. For variable interest
entities created prior to February 1, 2003, consolidation is required on July 1,
2003. The adoption of FIN 46 in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have a
material impact on our financial condition or results of operations (see Note 4
to Consolidated Financial Statements).

    In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 149"). SFAS No. 149 amends
and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for
hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities." In general, SFAS No. 149 is effective for contracts
entered into or modified after June 30, 2003 and for hedging relationships
designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS 149 did not have any impact
on our financial condition or results of operations.

    In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity" ("SFAS 150").
SFAS 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures in its
statement of financial position certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. In accordance with SFAS 150,
financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer are required to be
classified as liabilities. SFAS 150 is effective for financial instruments
entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise shall be effective at
the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, except
for the provisions relating to mandatorily redeemable financial instruments
which have been deferred indefinitely. The adoption of SFAS 150 did not have any
impact on our financial condition.



Results of Operations

    The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the percentage of
net sales represented by certain items reflected in our statement of operations,
and sets forth net sales by territory, sales mix, platform and principal
products:





Business Acquisitions

    During fiscal 2003, we acquired the assets of Frog City, Inc. ("Frog City"),
the developer of Tropico 2: Pirate Cove, and all of the outstanding membership
interests of Cat Daddy Games LLC ("Cat Daddy"), another development studio. The
total purchase price for both studios consisted of $757 in cash and $319 of
prepaid royalties previously advanced to Frog City. We also agreed to make
additional payments of up to $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy, based on
a percentage of Cat Daddy's profits for the first three years after acquisition,
which will be recorded as compensation expense if the targets are met. In
connection with the acquisitions, we recorded goodwill of $1,267 and net
liabilities of $191.

    In November 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Angel
Studios, Inc. ("Angel"), the developer of the Midnight Club and Smuggler's Run
franchises. The purchase price consisted of 235,679 shares of restricted common
stock (valued at $6,557), $28,512 in cash and $5,931 (net of $801 of royalties
payable to Angel) of prepaid royalties previously advanced to Angel. In
connection with the acquisition, we recorded identifiable intangibles of $4,720
(comprised of intellectual property of $2,810, technology of $1,600 and
non-competition agreements of $310), goodwill of $37,425 and net liabilities of
$1,145.

    In August 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Barking
Dog Studios Ltd. ("Barking Dog"), a Canadian-based development studio. The
purchase price consisted of 242,450 shares of restricted common stock (valued at
$3,801), $3,000 in cash, $825 of prepaid royalties previously advanced to
Barking Dog and assumed net liabilities of $70. In connection with the
acquisition, we recorded identifiable intangibles of $2,200, comprised of
non-competition agreements of $2,000 and intellectual property of $200, and
goodwill of $6,372.

    In November 2000, we acquired all of the capital stock of VLM Entertainment
Group Inc., a third-party video game distributor, for $2,000 in cash and 875,000
shares of common stock (valued at $8,039). VLM accounted for 14.5% of our
distribution net sales in fiscal 2001.

    The acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase transactions and,
accordingly, the results of operations and financial position of the acquired
businesses are included in our consolidated financial statements from the
respective dates of acquisition.

    In December 2003, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock and paid
certain liabilities of TDK Mediactive, Inc. ("TDK"). The purchase price of
approximately $14,276 consisted of $17,116 in cash and issuance of 163,641
restricted shares of our common stock (valued at $5,160), reduced by
approximately $8,000 due to TDK under a distribution agreement. We are in the
process of completing the purchase price allocation. TDK's results will be
included in our operating results beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.



Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2003 and 2002

                                    Net Sales



    Net Sales. The increase in net sales was attributable to growth in our
publishing and distribution operations.

    The increase in publishing revenues was primarily attributable to sales of
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for PlayStation 2, which was released in October
2002 in North America and in November 2002 internationally and reflected the
growth of our publishing operations in Europe. We expect continued growth in our
publishing business in fiscal 2004. Publishing revenues in fiscal 2003 and 2002
include licensing revenues of $25,002 and $13,873, respectively.

    Products designed for video game console platforms accounted for 81.2% of
fiscal 2003 publishing revenues as compared to 83.9% for fiscal 2002. Products
designed for PC platforms accounted for 17.2% of fiscal 2003 publishing revenues
as compared to 14.3% for fiscal 2002. We anticipate our product mix will remain
relatively constant for the foreseeable future but may fluctuate from period to
period.

    Distribution revenues are derived from the sale of third-party software
titles, accessories and hardware. The increase in distribution revenues was
primarily attributable to our increasing market share for budget titles in North
American retail channels. We expect continued growth in our distribution
business in fiscal 2004, and that distribution revenues may increase as a
percentage of net sales during this period.

    International operations accounted for approximately $288,753, or 27.9% of
net sales for fiscal 2003 compared to $159,245, or 20.0% of net sales for fiscal
2002. The increases were primarily attributable to expanded publishing
operations in Europe, which benefited from the November 2002 release of Grand
Theft Auto: Vice City for PlayStation 2, and significantly higher average
foreign exchange rates. We expect international sales to continue to account for
a significant portion of our revenues.




                                  Cost of Sales



    Cost of Sales. The increase in product costs is primarily attributable to
higher costs associated with our expanded distribution operations. These costs
were partly offset by lower product pricing from suppliers and lower
manufacturing costs (principally attributable to volume purchase discounts and
rebates) and lower cost PC titles. Product costs for fiscal 2003 included a
charge of $7,892 relating to the impairment of intangibles related to certain
products in development, including Duke Nukem Forever and its sequel. The
impairment was based on continued product development delays and our assessment
of current market acceptance and projected cash flows for these products.
Product costs for fiscal 2002 included $3,064 of litigation settlement costs
relating to a distribution agreement.



    Royalties. The increase in royalties was primarily due to expense under a
royalty program based on product sales for certain of our internal development
personnel, partly offset by lower royalties payable to third parties and lower
write-downs and amortization of prepaid royalties. Our internal royalty program
may continue to be a significant expense in future periods.

    Software Development Costs. Software development costs increased due to the
release of a greater number of internally developed titles during this period
resulting in higher amortization in the current period. These software
development costs relate to our internally developed titles.

    In future periods, cost of sales may be adversely affected by manufacturing
and other costs, price competition and by changes in product and sales mix and
distribution channels.

                               Operating Expenses



    Selling and marketing. The increase in selling and marketing expense was
attributable to increased levels of advertising and promotional support for
existing and new titles as well as higher personnel expenses and is consistent
with the growth of our business.

    General and administrative. The general and administrative expense increase
in absolute dollars was principally attributable to costs associated with the
consolidation of our distribution operations, as well as increased personnel
expenses (including bonuses, severance payments and the issuance of restricted
stock), higher rent and bad debt expenses. Higher costs were partly offset by
lower professional fees, including the reimbursement of $1,100 of legal fees
from insurance proceeds in fiscal 2003 relating to costs recorded in the prior
year. Fiscal 2002 costs reflected litigation settlement costs of $1,190 relating
to a distribution arrangement. The fiscal 2003 net consolidation charge of
$7,028 consisted of: lease termination costs, representing the fair value of
remaining lease payments, net of estimated sublease rent; disposition of fixed
assets, representing the net book value of fixed assets and leasehold
improvements; and other exit costs. Bad debt expense increased as a result of
customer bankruptcies not covered by insurance during the current year.

    Research and development. Research and development costs increased primarily
due to the acquisitions of development studios, as well as increased personnel
costs. Once software development projects reach technological feasibility, which
is relatively early in the development process, a substantial portion of our
research and development costs are capitalized and subsequently amortized as
cost of goods sold.

    Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense
increase includes $4,407 related to the impairment of a customer list from a
previous acquisition as a result of the consolidation of our distribution
operations, higher amortization of intangible assets as a result of acquisitions
and higher depreciation related to the implementation of accounting software
systems.

    Income from Operations. Income from operations increased by $40,306, or
32.8%, to $163,011 for fiscal 2003 from $122,705 for fiscal 2002, due to the
changes referred to above.

    Interest (Income) Expense, net. Interest income of $2,265 for fiscal 2003
was attributable to interest earned on the invested cash. Interest expense of
$480 for fiscal 2002 reflected borrowings from our credit facilities, which were
repaid in early fiscal 2002.



    Class Action Settlement Costs. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $1,468 of
class action settlement costs, which represents a settlement of $7,500 and
related legal fees, net of $6,145 of insurance proceeds.

    Provision for Income Taxes. Income tax expense was $67,197 for fiscal 2003
as compared to $49,375 for fiscal 2002. The increase was primarily attributable
to increased taxable income. The effective tax rate was 40.6% for fiscal 2003,
as compared to an effective tax rate of 40.8% for fiscal 2002. The effective
income tax rate differs from the statutory rate primarily as a result of
non-taxable foreign income, non-deductible expenses, valuation allowances for
deferred tax assets and the mix of foreign and domestic taxes as applied to the
income. The valuation allowances relate to capital loss and state net operating
loss carryforwards.

    At October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002, we had capital loss carryforwards
totaling approximately $21,000. The capital loss carryforwards will expire in
the periods fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2008. Failure to achieve sufficient
levels of taxable income from capital transactions might affect the ultimate
realization of the capital loss carryforwards. At October 31, 2002 management
had a strategy of selling net appreciated assets of the company, to the extent
required to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of these
benefits. At October 31, 2003, based on management's future plans, this strategy
was no longer viable, and accordingly a valuation allowance has been recorded
for this asset. At October 31, 2003, we had foreign net operating losses of
$9,800 expiring between 2005 and 2010, and state net operating losses of $41,700
expiring between 2021 and 2023. Limitations on the utilization of these losses
may apply, and accordingly valuation allowances have been recorded for these
assets.

    Net Income. Net income increased $26,555 or 37.1%, to $98,118 for fiscal
2003 from $71,563 for fiscal 2002, due to the changes referred to above.

    Diluted Net Income per Share. Diluted net income per share increased $0.46,
or 25.4%, to $2.27 for fiscal 2003 from $1.81 for fiscal 2002. The increase in
net income was partly offset by the higher weighted average shares outstanding.
The increase in weighted shares outstanding resulted from the issuance of shares
underlying stock options and to the acquisitions of the Max Payne intellectual
property and the development studios.

Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2002 and 2001

                                    Net Sales




    Net Sales. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to growth
in publishing operations. Included in net sales for fiscal 2001 was $23,846
attributable to the adoption of SAB 101. See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

    The increase in publishing revenues was primarily attributable to the
continued strong sales of Grand Theft Auto 3 for PlayStation 2 and the release
of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the PlayStation 2, Max Payne for the
PlayStation 2 and Xbox, State of Emergency for the PlayStation 2 and Grand Theft
Auto 3 for the PC. Fiscal 2001 included $17,248 of net sales attributable to the
adoption of SAB 101.



    Products designed for video game console platforms accounted for 83.9% of
fiscal 2002 publishing revenues as compared to 57.6% for fiscal 2001. The
increase was primarily attributable to continued sales of Grand Theft Auto 3 for
PlayStation 2 and the release of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the PlayStation
2, Max Payne for PlayStation 2 and Xbox and State of Emergency for PlayStation
2. Products designed for the PC accounted for approximately 14.3% of fiscal 2002
publishing net sales as compared to 35.6% for fiscal 2001. The decrease is a
result of fewer PC titles released during fiscal 2002.

    The increase in distribution revenues was primarily attributable to the
commercial introduction of Xbox and GameCube and the continued rollout of
PlayStation 2 and the sale of software for these console platforms. Distribution
revenue represented 28.5% and 45.9% of net sales for fiscal 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Fiscal 2001 included $6,598 attributable to the adoption of SAB
101.

    International operations accounted for approximately $159,245, or 20.0% of
net sales for fiscal 2002 compared to $106,565 or 23.6% for fiscal 2001. The
increase in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to expanded publishing
operations in Europe, including the release of Max Payne and State of Emergency
for PlayStation 2, Grand Theft Auto 3 for the PC and continued sales of Grand
Theft Auto 3 for PlayStation 2.

                                  Cost of Sales



    Cost of Sales. The decrease in product costs as a percentage of net sales
was due to the higher proportion of publishing net sales which have lower
product costs than distribution net sales, partly offset by the shift in
publishing product mix to higher cost console titles from lower cost PC titles.
Fiscal 2002 includes $3,064 of litigation settlement costs relating to a
distribution agreement, while fiscal 2001 includes an impairment charge of
$3,397 relating to a reduction in the value of certain acquired Internet assets.
Product costs in fiscal 2001 included $15,106 related to the adoption of SAB
101.

    The increase in royalties were due to higher royalty payments and increased
amortization of prepaid royalties as a result of increased product sales,
principally for State of Emergency, Max Payne, Midnight Club and Smuggler's Run.
In addition, we wrote off $14,122 of prepaid royalties, principally due to the
termination of several projects in 2002. We also implemented a royalty program
for certain of our development personnel based on product sales.

    The increase in software development costs in absolute dollars reflects
higher amortization principally related to the Grand Theft Auto titles. These
software development costs relate to our internally developed titles.

                               Operating Expenses





    Selling and marketing. The increase in selling and marketing expense was
attributable to television and other advertising expenses relating to Grand
Theft Auto 3, Max Payne, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Conflict Desert Storm
during fiscal 2002.

    General and administrative. The increase in general and administrative
expense was attributable to increased personnel expenses primarily relating to
salaries of additional executive, financial, accounting and information
technology personnel and legal and professional fees incurred in connection with
legal proceedings and regulatory matters as well as litigation settlement costs
relating to a distribution arrangement.

    Research and development. The increase in research and development costs was
attributable to bonus compensation, increased staffing levels and the
acquisition of Barking Dog Studios. Once software development projects reach
technological feasibility, which is relatively early in the development process,
a substantial portion of our research and development costs are capitalized and
subsequently amortized as cost of goods sold.

    Depreciation and amortization. The depreciation and amortization expense
decrease was due to our adoption of SFAS 142, and was partly offset by increased
depreciation related to the implementation of a new accounting software system
and amortization related to the Max Payne acquisition.

    Income from Operations. Income from operations increased by $94,328, or
332.4%, to $122,705 for fiscal 2002 from $28,377 for fiscal 2001, due to the
changes referred to above.

    Interest (Income) Expense, net. Interest expense decreased by $8,030, or
94.4%, to $480 for fiscal 2002 from $8,510 for fiscal 2001. The decrease was
attributable to substantially lower levels of borrowing from our credit
facilities and interest income earned on invested cash.

    Gain on Sale of Subsidiary. We recorded a non-operating gain of $651 on the
sale of our Jack of All Games UK subsidiary during fiscal 2001.

    (Gain) Loss on Internet Investments. For fiscal 2002, we recognized a gain
of $181 from the sale of marketable securities. During fiscal 2001, we incurred
an impairment charge of $21,477 relating primarily to our investments in
Gameplay and eUniverse to reflect other than temporary declines in the value of
these investments.

    Class Action Settlement Costs. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $1,468 of
class action settlement costs, which represents a settlement of $7,500 and
related legal fees, net of $6,145 of insurance proceeds.

    Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt. During fiscal 2001, we incurred a
charge of $3,165 upon the early repayment of $15,000 of subordinated
indebtedness.

    Provision for Income Taxes. We incurred income tax expense of $49,375 for
fiscal 2002 as compared to a benefit of $2,450 for fiscal 2001. The increase was
primarily attributable to increased taxable income. The difference between the
statutory rate and the effective rates of 40.8% and (59.4%) for fiscal 2002 and
2001, respectively, primarily is the result of state and foreign tax rate
differentials and non-deductible items, such as amortization of intangibles.

    Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle. In connection with the
adoption of SAB 101, we recognized a cumulative effect of $5,244, net of taxes
of $3,496, in fiscal 2001.


    Net Income. For fiscal 2002, we achieved net income of $71,563, as compared
to net loss of $6,918 for fiscal 2001.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

    Our primary cash requirements are to fund the development and marketing of
our products. We satisfy our working capital requirements primarily through cash
flow from operations. At October 31, 2003, we had working capital of $348,155 as
compared to working capital of $196,555 at October 31, 2002.

    Our cash and cash equivalents increased $75,108 to $183,477 at October 31,
2003, from $108,369 at October 31, 2002. The increase is primarily attributable
to $80,628 of cash provided by operating activities and by $44,562 provided by
financing activities, partly offset by $45,881 used in investing activities.

    Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2003 was $80,628
compared to $144,998 for fiscal 2002 and $27,319 for fiscal 2001. The decrease
in fiscal 2003 was primarily attributable to cash used to finance significantly
increased levels of accounts receivables and inventories, increases in prepaid
expenses and software development costs, partly offset by an increase in net
income, higher non-cash adjustments principally relating to the consolidation of
our distribution facilities and increased tax benefit from stock options. The
increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2002 was primarily
attributable to increased net income and our focus on working capital management
in both fiscal 2002 and 2001. The increase in cash provided from operations for
fiscal 2002 was also attributable to increases in accounts payable and accrued
expenses, partly offset by increased levels of inventories, prepaid expenses and
accounts receivable.

    Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2003 was $45,881 as
compared to $18,084 for 2002 and $13,479 for fiscal 2001. The increase in fiscal
2003 is primarily attributable to higher expenditures for the acquisition of
development studios and lower proceeds from sale of investments, partly offset
by fewer intangible assets acquisitions. The increase in fiscal 2002 is
primarily attributable to the acquisition of the Max Payne intangible assets and
the Barking Dog development studio and increased expenditures for fixed assets.
Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2001 related primarily to the
purchase of fixed assets and to a lesser extent acquisitions.

    Net cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2003 was $44,562 as
compared to net cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2002 of $31,988 and
$11,790 for fiscal 2001. The increase in fiscal 2003 was primarily attributable
to the absence of repayment of indebtedness and higher proceeds from the
exercise of stock options. The increase in net cash used in financing activities
for fiscal 2002 was primarily attributable to the absence of private placement
proceeds in fiscal 2002 and the repayment of indebtedness. Net cash used in
fiscal 2001 related primarily to the repayment of indebtedness offset by
proceeds from equity offerings and the exercise of stock options and warrants.

    In December 1999, we entered into a credit agreement, as amended and
restated in August 2002, with a group of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A.,
as agent. The agreement provides for borrowings of up to $40,000 through the
expiration of the line of credit on August 28, 2005. Generally, advances under
the line of credit are based on a borrowing formula equal to 75% of eligible
accounts receivable plus 35% of eligible inventory. Interest accrues on such
advances at the bank's prime rate plus 0.25% to 1.25%, or at LIBOR plus 2.25% to
2.75% depending on our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined). We are required
to pay a commitment fee to the bank equal to 0.5% of the unused loan balance.
Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by our accounts
receivable, inventory, equipment, general intangibles, securities and other
personal property, including the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries.
Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the amount of
outstanding letters of credit, which were $9,290 at October 31, 2003. The loan
agreement contains certain financial and other covenants, including the
maintenance of consolidated net worth, consolidated leverage ratio and
consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. As of October 31, 2003, we were in
compliance with such covenants. The loan agreement limits or prohibits us from
declaring or paying cash dividends, merging or consolidating with another
corporation, selling assets (other than in the ordinary course of business),
creating liens and incurring additional indebtedness. We had no outstanding
borrowings under the revolving line of credit as of October 31, 2003.

    In February 2001, our United Kingdom subsidiary entered into a credit
facility agreement, as amended in March 2002, with Lloyds TSB Bank plc
("Lloyds") under which Lloyds agreed to make available borrowings of up to
approximately $22,200. Advances under the credit facility bear interest at the
rate of 1.25% per annum over the bank's base rate, and are guaranteed by us.
Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the amount of
outstanding guarantees. The facility expires on March 31, 2004. We had no
outstanding guarantees or borrowings under this facility as of October 31, 2003.



    For fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, we received proceeds of $44,865, $23,308 and
$22,931, respectively, relating to the exercise of stock options and warrants.

    In December 2003, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock and paid
certain liabilities of TDK Mediactive. The purchase price of approximately
$14,276 consisted of $17,116 in cash and issuance of 163,641 restricted shares
of our common stock (valued at $5,160), reduced by approximately $8,000 due to
TDK under a distribution agreement.

    Our accounts receivable, less allowances, which includes doubtful accounts,
returns, price concessions, rebates and other sales allowances, at October 31,
2003 was $166,536 as compared to $105,576 at October 31, 2002.

    The increase of $92,971 in gross accounts receivable at October 31, 2003
principally reflects increased product releases at year end as well as cash
received in advance of products shipped at the end of fiscal 2002. Two retail
customers each accounted for more than 10% of the receivable balance (28.3% in
aggregate) at October 31, 2003. As of October 31, 2003, most of our receivables
had been covered by insurance, with certain limits and deductibles, in the event
of a customer's bankruptcy or insolvency. In November 2003, we terminated our
receivables insurance. Generally, we have been able to collect our receivables
in the ordinary course of business. We do not hold any collateral to secure
payment from customers. As a result, we are subject to credit risks,
particularly in the event that any of the receivables represent a limited number
of retailers or are concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect
our accounts receivable as they become due, we could be required to increase our
allowance for doubtful accounts, which could adversely affect our liquidity and
working capital position.

    Our allowances increased from $30,806 at October 31, 2002 to $62,817 at
October 31, 2003 and increased as a percentage of gross receivables from 22.6%
at October 31, 2002 to 27.4% at October 31, 2003. The increase was due to
additional price concessions and returns for our published products and
additional bad debts, net of deductibles and insurance proceeds, related to the
bankruptcy of two customers, the losses from which were not entirely covered by
insurance. We had accounts receivable days outstanding of 56 days for the three
months ended October 31, 2003, as compared to 45 days for the three months ended
October 31, 2002. Receivable days outstanding increased primarily as a result of
increased product releases at year end. Our receivable days outstanding
fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of product releases.

    Inventories of $101,748 at October 31, 2003 increased $27,357 from October
31, 2002, reflecting higher levels of distribution products to support the
growth of this business. Accounts payable of $106,172 at October 31, 2003
increased $26,512 primarily due to the increase in inventory levels.

    In September 2002, we relocated our principal executive offices to 622
Broadway, New York, New York. We have recently leased additional space at 622
Broadway to accommodate our expanded operations. We estimate that as of October
31, 2003 we will incur an additional $1,200 in capital expenditures for
continuing renovations and leasehold improvements for this space. In connection
with signing a ten year lease, we provided a standby letter of credit of $1,560,
expiring December 31, 2003. As a result of the relocation, we recorded expenses
of $363 and $514 in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to lease costs
with regard to our former executive offices. In addition, we expect to spend an
additional $4,000 in connection with the implementation of accounting software
systems for our international operations and the upgrade for our domestic
operations. We are considering expanding our distribution facilities in
Cincinnati, Ohio, which would require additional capital expenditures for
leasehold improvements and equipment. As of the date of this report, we have no
other material commitments for capital expenditures.

    Our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we
may repurchase up to $25,000 of our common stock from time to time in the open
market or in privately negotiated transactions. We have not repurchased any
shares under this program.

    We have incurred and may continue to incur significant legal, accounting and
other professional fees and expenses in connection with pending regulatory
matters.

    Based on our currently proposed operating plans and assumptions, we believe
that projected cash flow from operations and available cash resources will be
sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for the reasonably foreseeable
future.



Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments

    Our offices and warehouse facilities are occupied under non-cancelable
operating leases expiring at various times from December 2003 to October 2013.
We also lease certain furniture, equipment and automobiles under non- cancelable
leases expiring through October 2007. Our future minimum rental payments for the
year ending October 31, 2004 are $7,268 and aggregate minimum rental payments
through applicable lease expirations are $37,865.

    We have entered into distribution agreements under which we purchase various
software games. These agreements, which expire between June 2004 and March 2005,
require remaining aggregate minimum guaranteed payments of $14,330 at October
31, 2003, including $3,491 of payments due pursuant to an agreement with TDK
Mediactive. These agreements are collateralized by a standby letter of credit of
$3,600 at October 31, 2003. Additionally, assuming performance by third-party
developers, we have outstanding commitments under various software development
agreements to pay developers an aggregate of $27,224 over the fiscal year ending
October 31, 2004.

    In connection with our acquisition of the publishing rights to the Duke
Nukem franchise for PC and video games in December 2000, we are obligated to pay
$6,000 contingent upon delivery of the final version of Duke Nukem Forever for
the PC. In May 2003, we agreed to pay up to $6,000 upon the achievement of
certain sales targets for Max Payne 2. We also agreed to make additional
payments of up to $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy based on a percentage
of Cat Daddy's profits for the first three years after acquisition. The payables
will be recorded when the conditions requiring their payment are met.

    The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and
commercial commitments as of October 31, 2003:



Fluctuations in Operating Results and Seasonality

    We have experienced fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result
of the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles
developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development
and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or
enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the
timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns;
changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the size and timing of
acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; and order cancellations
and delays in product shipment. Sales of our titles are also seasonal, with peak
shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and
first fiscal quarters) as a result of increased demand for titles during the
holiday season. Quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily
indicative of future operating results.



International Operations

    Sales in international markets, principally in the United Kingdom and other
countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales.
For fiscal 2003 and 2002, sales in international markets accounted for
approximately 27.9% and 20.0%, respectively, of our net sales. We are subject to
risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and
duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and
international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can
have a significant impact on our operating results.

Cautionary Statement and Risk Factors

    Safe Harbor Statement under the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: We
make statements in this report that are considered forward-looking statements
under federal securities laws. Such forward-looking statements are based on the
beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by and information currently
available to them. The words "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "may,"
"estimate," "intend" and similar expressions are intended to identify such
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks,
uncertainties and assumptions including, but not limited to, the following which
could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from results, performance or achievements, expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements:

    The market for interactive entertainment software titles is characterized by
short product life cycles. The interactive entertainment software market is
characterized by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new
products. New products introduced by us may not achieve significant market
acceptance or achieve sufficient sales to permit us to recover development,
manufacturing and marketing costs. Historically, few interactive entertainment
software products have achieved sustained market acceptance. Even the most
successful titles remain popular for only limited periods of time, often less
than nine months, although sales of certain products may extend for significant
periods of time, including through our election to participate in Sony's
Greatest Hits and Microsoft's Platinum Hits programs.

    The life cycle of a game generally involves a relatively high level of sales
during the first few months after introduction followed by a decline in sales.
Because net sales associated with the initial shipments of a new product
generally constitute a high percentage of the total net sales associated with
the life of a product, any delay in the introduction of one or more new products
could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, because we introduce
a relatively limited number of new products in any period, the failure of one or
more of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our
operating results.

    A significant portion of our net sales is derived from a limited number of
titles. For the year ended October 31, 2003, our ten best selling titles
accounted for approximately 50.5% of our net sales, with Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City for PlayStation 2 accounting for 33.6% of our net sales, Midnight Club 2
for PlayStation 2 accounting for 4.1% of our net sales and Grand Theft Auto:
Vice City for PC accounting for 2.6% of our net sales. Our ten best selling
titles accounted for approximately 59.5% of our net sales for the year ended
October 31, 2002. For this period, Grand Theft Auto 3 for PlayStation 2
accounted for 29.8% of our net sales, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the
PlayStation 2 accounted for 7.5% of our net sales and Max Payne for PlayStation
2 accounted for 6.6% of our net sales. Our ten best selling titles accounted for
approximately 30.8% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2001.
Our future titles may not be commercially viable. If we fail to continue to
develop and sell new, commercially successful titles, our net sales and profits
may decrease substantially and we may incur losses.



    Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly, which could cause
our stock price to decline. We have experienced and may continue to experience
wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. The interactive entertainment
industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth
calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to the
increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. Our failure or
inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations
in demand will harm our business and operating results. These fluctuations could
also cause our stock price to decline. Other factors that cause fluctuations
include:

   o delays in the introduction of new titles;

   o the size and timing of product and business acquisitions;

   o variations in sales of titles designed to operate on particular
     platforms;

   o development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new
     titles;

   o availability of hardware platforms;

   o the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors;

   o product returns and price concessions;

   o the timing of orders from major customers.

    Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future
sales and therefore our operating results would be harmed by a decrease in sales
or a failure to meet our sales expectations. The uncertainties associated with
interactive entertainment software development, manufacturing lead times,
production delays and the approval process for products by hardware
manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in
which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet
financial expectations. In future quarters our operating results may fall below
the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the market
price of our common stock could significantly decline.

    The interactive entertainment software industry is cyclical, and we may fail
to anticipate changing consumer preferences. Our business is subject to all of
the risks generally associated with the interactive entertainment software
industry, which has been cyclical in nature and has been characterized by
periods of significant growth followed by rapid declines. Our future operating
results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including:

   o the popularity, price and timing of new software and hardware platforms
     being released and distributed by us and our competitors;

   o international, national and regional economic conditions, particularly
     economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending;

   o war, acts of terrorism and military action, which could adversely affect
     consumer preferences in entertainment;

   o changes in consumer demographics;

   o the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and

   o critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change
     rapidly and cannot be predicted.

    In order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities we must
anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. A
decline in the popularity of interactive entertainment software or particular
platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. The period of
time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of manufacturers and
produce finished products is unpredictable. During this period, consumer appeal
of a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of
expectations.



    Rapidly changing technology and platform shifts could hurt our operating
results. The interactive entertainment industry in general is associated with
rapidly changing technology. As more advanced platforms achieve market
acceptance, consumer demand for software for older platforms declines.

    We are devoting significant development resources primarily on products
designed for Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox. If consumer demand for
these platforms declines generally or as a result of the next hardware
transition cycle, we may experience lower than expected sales or losses from
products designed for these platforms.

    A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed or are
currently developing software for use by consumers over the Internet. Future
increases in the availability of such software or technological advances in such
software or the Internet could result in a decline in platform-based software
and impact our sales. Direct sales of software by major publishers over the
Internet would materially adversely affect our distribution business.

    It is difficult to anticipate hardware development cycles and we must make
substantial development and investment decisions well in advance of the
introduction of new hardware products. If new hardware products are delayed or
do not meet our expectations for consumer acceptance we may not be able to
recover our investment and our business and financial results could be adversely
affected.

    Our business is dependent on publishing arrangements with third parties. Our
success depends on our ability to identify and develop new titles on a timely
basis. We have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights
to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software. These agreements
typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other
conditions. Our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to
develop new software successfully. In addition, software development costs,
promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers
have increased significantly in recent years and reduce the potential profits
derived from sales of our software. Future sales of our titles may not be
sufficient to recover advances to software developers, and we may not have
adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments.
If we fail to satisfy our obligations under these license agreements, the
agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that may be burdensome to us.

    Returns of our published titles and price concessions may adversely affect
our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price
concessions with respect to our customers. Our distribution arrangements with
customers do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm
orders. However, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution
customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers which
include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below
expectations. We accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with
our publishing arrangements. Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated
reserves for returns and price concessions. We believe that we can reliably
estimate future returns and price concessions. However, if return rates and
price concessions for our published titles exceed our reserves, our net sales
will decline.

    The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. We
compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive
entertainment software with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which is a
large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. Each of these
competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price
competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns, particularly for
prime-time television spots. These companies may also increase their own
software development efforts or focus on developing software products for
third-party platforms. We also compete with domestic companies such as
Electronic Arts, Activision, THQ, Midway Games, Acclaim Entertainment and Atari
and international companies such as Sega, Vivendi, Ubi Soft, Eidos, Capcom,
Konami and Namco. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
personnel and other resources than we do, and are able to carry larger
inventories and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially
desirable properties than we can. Our titles also compete with other forms of
entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products
featuring similar themes, online computer programs and forms of entertainment
which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.



    Our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment.
The intense competition that characterizes our industry is based primarily on
breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions
of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and
effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. Our competitors include regional,
national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and
software publishers. We may lose market share or be forced in the future to
reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors, and thereby
experience a reduction in our gross margins.

    Increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from
retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur
greater expenses to market our titles. Retailers have limited shelf space and
promotional resources, and competition is intense among an increasing number of
newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels
of shelf space and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is
expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing
expenditures just to maintain current levels of sales of our titles. Competitors
with more extensive lines and popular titles frequently have greater bargaining
power with retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of
promotional support and shelf space that such competitors receive.

    A limited number of customers may account for a significant portion of our
sales. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 38.6%,
31.4% and 20.8%, respectively, of our net sales for the years ended October 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001. For the year ended October 31, 2003, sales of our products
to Wal-Mart accounted for 11.4% of our net sales. Our sales are made primarily
pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments.
Our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. The loss of
our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal
customers could harm our operating results. Bankruptcies or consolidations of
certain large retail customers could also seriously hurt our business.

    We are subject to credit and collection risks. Our sales are typically made
on credit. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. As
a result, we are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that any of
our receivables represent sales to a limited number of retailers or are
concentrated in foreign markets. We recently terminated our receivables
insurance. Although we continually assess the creditworthiness of our
customers, which are principally large, national retailers, if we are unable to
collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect
our financial condition.

    Rating systems for interactive entertainment software, potential legislation
and consumer opposition could inhibit sales of our products. Trade organizations
within the video game industry require interactive entertainment software
publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence,
profanity or sexually explicit material contained in software titles, and impose
penalties for noncompliance. Certain countries have also established similar
rating systems as prerequisites for sales of interactive entertainment software
in such countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products
to comply with the requirements of such rating systems, which could delay the
release of those products in such countries. Our software titles receive a
rating of "E" (age 6 and older), "T" (age 13 and over) or "M" (age 17 and over).
Most of our new titles (including Grand Theft Auto 3, Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City, Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne, Manhunt and Mafia) have received an M
rating. We believe that we comply with such rating systems and properly display
the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles.

    Several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate the
interactive entertainment software, motion picture and recording industries,
including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for interactive
entertainment software, television and music containing violence or sexually
explicit material, and the Federal Trade Commission has issued reports with
respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups
have also opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing graphic
violence or sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these
areas (including legislation prohibiting the sale of certain "M" rated video
games to minors) and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns.
Retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing
graphic violence or sexually explicit material, which may limit the potential
market for our "M" rated products, and adversely affect our operating results.
If any groups (including international, national and local political and
regulatory bodies) were to target our "M" rated titles, we might be required to
significantly change or discontinue a particular title, which in the case of our
best selling titles could seriously hurt our business. Although lawsuits seeking
damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video
games have been unsuccessful, a claim of this kind has been asserted against us.
See Item 3 "Legal Proceedings."



    We cannot publish our console titles without the approval of hardware
manufacturers. We are required to obtain a license from Sony, Microsoft and
Nintendo, our principal competitors, to develop and publish titles for their
respective hardware platforms. Our existing hardware console platform licenses
require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-
by-title basis. As a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for
these hardware platforms, along with our ability to time the release of these
titles and, accordingly, our net sales from titles for these hardware platforms,
may be limited. If any manufacturer chooses not to renew or extend our license
agreement at the end of its current term, or if the manufacturer were to
terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional
titles for that manufacturer's hardware platform. Termination of any such
agreements would seriously hurt our business.

    License agreements relating to these rights generally extend for a term of
three or four years. The agreements are terminable upon the occurrence of a
number of factors, including: (1) breach of the agreement by us; (2) our
bankruptcy or insolvency; or (3) our entry into a relationship with, or
acquisition by, a competitor of the manufacturer. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to obtain new or maintain existing licenses on acceptable terms, or
at all.

    Sony and Nintendo are the sole manufacturers of the titles we publish under
license from them. Games for the Xbox must be manufactured by pre- approved
manufacturers. Each platform license provides that the manufacturer may raise
prices for the titles at any time and grants the manufacturer substantial
control over the release of new titles. Each of these manufacturers also
publishes software for its own platforms and manufactures titles for all of its
other licensees and may choose to give priority to its own titles or those of
other publishers if it has insufficient manufacturing capacity or if there is
increased demand for its or other publishers' products.

    In addition, these manufacturers may not have sufficient production capacity
to satisfy our scheduling requirements during any period of sustained demand. If
manufacturers do not supply us with finished titles on favorable terms without
delays, our operations would be materially interrupted, and we would be unable
to obtain sufficient amounts of our product to sell to our customers. If we
cannot obtain sufficient product supplies, our net sales will decline and we
could incur losses.

    We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we
infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We develop proprietary software
and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by
third parties. We attempt to protect our software and production techniques
under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual
restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. Interactive entertainment
software is susceptible to unauthorized copying. Unauthorized third parties may
be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use
programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary.

    As the amount of interactive entertainment software titles in the market
increases and the functionality of this software further overlaps, we believe
that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of
claims that such software infringes the copyrights or patents of others. From
time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by
third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. Although we
believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of
third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do
not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is
possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others has or may occur. Any
claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly
and difficult to defend. Moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims
could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license
or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and
material delays.

    We are dependent on third-party software developers to complete certain of
our titles. We rely on third-party software developers for the development of
certain of our titles. Quality third-party developers are continually in high
demand. Software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not
be available to develop software for us in the future. Due to the limited number
of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over
them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely
basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all.



    We depend on third-party software developers and our internal development
studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated
release schedules and cost projections. The development cycle for new titles
ranges from twelve to twenty-four months. After development of a product, it may
take between nine to twelve additional months to develop the product for other
hardware platforms. If developers experience financial difficulties, additional
costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles
according to our schedule.

    Our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results
and reputation. The technological advancements of new hardware platforms allow
more complex software products. As software products become more complex, the
risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. If,
despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments
have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market
acceptance, product returns, loss of net sales and damage to our reputation.

    Gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically
narrow which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating
results. As a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our
distribution business have historically been narrow and we expect them to
continue to be narrow in the future. We receive purchase discounts from
suppliers based on various factors, including volume purchases. These purchase
discounts directly affect our gross margins. It may become more difficult for us
to achieve the percentage growth in sales required to continue to receive volume
purchase discounts.

    We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely
fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our
selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and
facilities. In the event of a significant decline in net sales, we may not be
able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other significant changes to
our cost structure without significant disruption to our operations or without
significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement
such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in
net sales and gross profit.

    Our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate
supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. Our ability to
obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders
on a timely basis is critical to our success. In most cases, we have no
guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. In certain product
categories, limited price concessions or return rights offered by publishers may
have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to purchase. Our
industry may experience significant hardware supply shortages from time to time
due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply certain products on a
timely basis. As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue
to experience, short-term hardware inventory shortages. In addition,
manufacturers or publishers who currently distribute their products through us
may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing
distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers.

    We are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and
protective terms under supplier arrangements may not adequately cover the
decline in values. The interactive entertainment software and hardware industry
is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products
and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory to decline
substantially in value or to become obsolete. We are also exposed to inventory
risk in our distribution business to the extent that supplier price concessions
are not available on all products or quantities and are subject to time
restrictions. In addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill
price concession obligations.

    We are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade. Sales in
international markets, primarily in the United Kingdom and other countries in
Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net sales. Sales in
international markets accounted for approximately 27.9%, 20.0% and 23.6%,
respectively, of our net sales for the year ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased
credit risks; tariffs and duties; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates; shipping delays; and international political, regulatory and economic
developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating
results. All of our international sales are made in local currencies.



    The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market
price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile.
Factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors
and various factors affecting the interactive entertainment software industry
may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock.

    We are subject to rapidly evolving regulation affecting financial reporting,
accounting and corporate governance matters. In response to recent corporate
events, legislators and government agencies have focused on the integrity of
financial reporting, and regulatory accounting bodies have recently announced
their intention to issue several new accounting standards, including accounting
for stock options as compensation expense, certain of which are significantly
different from current accounting standards. We cannot predict the impact of the
adoption of any such proposals on our future financial results. Additionally,
recently enacted legislation focused on corporate governance, auditing and
internal accounting controls imposes compliance burdens on us, and will require
us to devote significant financial, technical and personnel resources to address
compliance issues.

    We are subject to SEC proceedings that may result in sanctions and monetary
penalties. We received a Wells Notice from the Staff of the SEC stating the
Staff's intention to recommend that the SEC bring an enforcement action seeking
an injunction and monetary damages against us alleging that we violated certain
provisions of the federal securities laws. The proposed allegations stem from
the previously disclosed SEC investigation into certain accounting matters
related to our financial statements, periodic reporting and internal accounting
controls. The investigation is continuing and we expect to receive additional
requests for information.

    Restatements of our financial statements could result in lawsuits. The Staff
of the SEC has raised issues with respect to our revenue recognition policies
and certain sales transactions and its impact on our current and historical
financial statements. After a detailed review, we restated our previously issued
financial statements to reflect our revised revenue recognition policy with
respect to establishing reserves for price concessions for our published
products, as well as to increase our provision for returns at October 31, 2000
with respect to certain sales transactions primarily to retail customers with a
corresponding reduction in the returns provision in 2001. Although we have
entered into discussions with the Staff to address the issues raised in the
Wells Notice, we are unable to predict the outcome of these discussions. We may
be subject to class action lawsuits seeking damages as a result of the
restatements. See Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    We are uncertain about the future of our management and key personnel. Our
Chairman has received a Wells Notice from the Staff of the SEC. Our Chairman
founded the company and we depend on this individual for our strategic and
operating decisions. The loss of the services of this individual could have a
material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Additionally, pursuant to
the terms of his amended employment contract, our Chief Executive Officer has
the right to elect to voluntarily terminate his agreement and resign at any time
after March 31, 2004 and receive his full salary and bonus during the
eighteen-month period following such resignation. Furthermore, we are dependent
upon the expertise and skills of certain of our Rockstar employees responsible
for content creation and product development and marketing. Although we have
employment agreements with each of these creative, development and marketing
personnel, and we have granted them incentives in the form of an internal
royalty program based on sales of Rockstar published products, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to continue to retain these personnel at current
compensation levels, or at all. Failure to continue to attract and retain
qualified management, creative, development, financial, marketing, sales and
technical personnel could materially adversely affect our business and
prospects.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

      (Dollars in thousands)

    We are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business,
primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.

    Historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant
impact on our operating results. At October 31, 2003, we had no outstanding
variable rate indebtedness.

    We transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks
resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Accounts
relating to foreign operations are translated into United States dollars using
prevailing exchange rates at the relevant fiscal quarter or year end.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders'
equity. For the year ended October 31, 2003, our foreign currency translation
adjustment gain was $4,119. Foreign exchange transaction gain for the year ended
October 31, 2003 was $2,015. A hypothetical 10% change in applicable currency
exchange rates at October 31, 2003 would result in a material translation
adjustment.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The financial statements appear in a separate section of this report
following Part III.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

     Based on their evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level for
recording, processing, summarizing and reporting the information we are required
to disclose in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during
the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2003 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial
reporting.




                                    PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2004, entitled "Election of Directors" to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2004, entitled "Executive Compensation" to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Report.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2004, entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management" to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Report.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2004, entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the
end of the fiscal year covered by this Report.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held in 2004, entitled "Principal Accountant Fees and Services" to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Report.




                                    PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

        (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

               (i)     Financial Statements. See Index to Financial Statements
                       on page 43 of this Report.

               (ii)    Financial Statement Schedule. See page 88 of this Report.

               (iii)   Exhibits

                       3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation

                       3.1.1   Certificate of Designation, dated March 11, 1998

                       3.1.2   Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate
                               of Incorporation, dated April 30, 1998

                       3.1.3   Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate
                               of Incorporation, dated November 17, 2003

                       3.2     By-Laws (1)

                       10.1    1997 Stock Option Plan (1) +

                       10.2    2002 Stock Option Plan (2) +

                       10.3    Incentive Stock Plan adopted by the Board of
                               Directors on June 12, 2003. (3) +

                       10.4    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated
                               August 28, 2002, by and among the Company,
                               certain of its subsidiaries, certain lenders and
                               Bank of America, N.A., as agent. (4)

                       10.5    Loan Agreement with Lloyds TBS Commercial and
                               Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Ltd. (5)

                       10.6    Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2002,
                               by and between the Company and Karl H. Winters.
                               (6) +

                       10.7    Employment Agreement, dated August 1, l998, as
                               amended, by and between the Company and Ryan A.
                               Brant. (7) +

                       10.8    Amendment to Employment Agreement with Ryan A.
                               Brant, dated November 18, 2002. (8) +

                       10.9    Employment Agreement dated as of November 18,
                               2002, by and between the Company and Jeffrey C.
                               Lapin. (8) +

                       10.10   Amendment to Employment Agreement with, Jeffrey
                               C. Lapin dated December 9, 2003. +

                       10.11   Licensed Publishing Agreement dated April 1,
                               2000 between Sony Computer Entertainment
                               America, Inc. and the Company. (9) *

                       10.12   Publishing Agreement dated May 8, 1998 between
                               Gathering of Developers I, Ltd. and Apogee
                               Software, Ltd/ 3D Realms. (10) *

                       10.13   Xbox Publisher License Agreement dated December
                               14, 2000 between Microsoft Corporation and the
                               Company. (5) *



                       10.14   Confidential License Agreement for Nintendo Game
                               Cube dated September 24, 2001 between Nintendo
                               of America, Inc. and the Company. (5) *

                       10.15   Letter Agreement dated July 21, 2001 between
                               Apogee Software, Ltd and the Company. (9)

                       10.16   Development and Publishing Agreement dated
                               February 10, 2000 by and between the Company and
                               VIS International plc. (11)

                       10.17   Lease Agreement between the Company and Moklam
                               Enterprises, Inc. dated July 1, 2002. (4)

                       10.18   Asset Purchase Agreement between Apogee
                               Software, Ltd., Remedy Entertainment and the
                               Company. (12)

                       10.19   Stock Purchase Agreement, dated November 19,
                               2002, by and between the Company and Angel
                               Studios, Inc. (13)

                       21.1    Subsidiaries of the Company.

                       23.1    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

                       31.1    Chief Executive Officer Certification Pursuant to
                               Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                       31.2    Chief Financial Officer Certification Pursuant to
                               Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                       32.1    Chief Executive Officer Certification pursuant to
                               18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted Pursuant to
                               Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                       32.2    Chief Financial Officer Certification pursuant to
                               18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted Pursuant to
                               Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

               *       Portions hereof have been omitted and filed separately
                       with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a
                       request for confidential treatment in accordance with
                       Exchange Act Rule 24b-2.

               +       Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or
                       arrangement.

               (1)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                       SB-2 (File No. 333-6414).

               (2)     Incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy
                       Statement dated May 10, 2002.

               (3)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                       for the three months ended July 31, 2003.

               (4)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                       for the three months ended July 31, 2002.

               (5)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                       the year ended October 31, 2001.

               (6)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A
                       in the year ended October 31, 2001.

               (7)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                       S-1 (File No. 333-748851).




               (8)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                       the year ended October 31, 2002.

               (9)     Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                       dated May 7, 2002.

               (10)    Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                       S-3/A dated September 14, 2001 (File no. 333- 66748).

               (11)    Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                       for the three months ended April 30, 2002.

               (12)    Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                       dated June 5, 2002.

               (13)    Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit
                       contained in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                       dated November 22, 2002.

        (b)    Reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended October 31,
               2003:

    On September 3, 2003, the Company furnished a Current Report on Form 8-K to
report the Press Release dated September 3, 2003 relating to the Company's
financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2003. (Items 7, 9
and 12)

    On October 22, 2003, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to
report a legal proceeding filed in the Fourth Judicial District for the State of
Tennessee Circuit Court of Cocke County entitled Hamel et al vs. Sony Computer
Entertainment America, Inc., Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.,
Rockstar Games Inc., and Walmart, Inc. (Item 5)



                       TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.
                           YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2003


                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent Auditors                                                44

Consolidated Balance Sheets - At October 31, 2003 and 2002
  (Restated)                                                                  45

Consolidated Statements of Operations - For the years ended
  October 31, 2003, 2002 (Restated) and 2001 (Restated)                       46

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - For the years ended
  October 31, 2003, 2002 (Restated) and 2001 (Restated)                       48

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity - For the
  years ended October 31, 2001 (Restated), 2002 (Restated) and
  2003                                                                        50

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                    52

Financial Statement Schedule:

 II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts - For the years ended
  October 31, 2003, 2002 (Restated) and 2001 (Restated)                       88




                         Report of Independent Auditors


To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying
index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("the Company") at
October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31,
2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
listed in the accompanying index, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has
restated its financial statements for the years ended October 31, 2002 and 2001.

As discussed in Note 3, effective November 1, 2001, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business
Combinations" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets". Accordingly, the Company discontinued the
amortization of goodwill as of that date. Also, as discussed in Note 3,
effective November 1, 2000, the Company changed its method of accounting for
revenue recognition to conform to the requirements of SEC Staff Bulletin No.
101, "Revenue Recognition".


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 12, 2004




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                        (In thousands, except share data)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
                        (In thousands, except share data)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
               Consolidated Statements of Operations (continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                        (In thousands, except share data)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)
                        (In thousands, except share data)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
   For the Years Ended October 31, 2001 (Restated), 2002 (Restated) and 2003
                                 (In thousands)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
           Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (continued)
    For the Years Ended October 31, 2001 (Restated), 2002 (Restated) and 2003
                                 (In thousands)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------





        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.



              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1. DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS

   Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated in the
   State of Delaware in September 1993. The Company develops interactive
   software games designed for PCs, video game consoles and handheld platforms
   and publishes games developed internally and by third-parties. The Company
   also distributes games for video game consoles and handheld platforms
   published internally and by third-parties, as well as hardware and
   accessories manufactured by third-parties.

2. RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

   The Company restated its previously issued financial statements for the
   fiscal years ended October 31, 2000 (not presented herein), 2001 and 2002, to
   reflect its revised revenue recognition policy. Under this policy, the
   Company recognizes as a reduction of net sales a reserve for estimated future
   price concessions in the period in which the sale is recorded. Measurement of
   the reserve is based on, among other factors, an historical analysis of price
   concessions, an assessment of field inventory levels and sell-through for
   each product, current industry conditions and other factors affecting the
   estimated timing and amount of concessions management believes will be
   granted. The Company previously recognized price concession reserves in the
   period in which it communicated the price concessions to its customers. The
   Company also restated its financial statements for the fiscal years ended
   October 31, 2000 and 2001 to increase its provision for returns at October
   31, 2000 by approximately $4.9 million for certain sales transactions
   primarily to retail customers in fiscal 2000, and to reflect the fiscal 2001
   returns as a reduction of the revised October 31, 2000 reserve for returns
   rather than the previously reported reduction of sales in fiscal 2001.
   Additionally, fiscal 2000 and 2001 revenues were restated for approximately
   $0.2 million to adjust for sales cut-off transactions at the end of fiscal
   2000. The impact of these changes on opening retained earnings as of November
   1, 2000 was $2.6 million. See Note 19.

   The Company's 2002 financial statements have been restated as follows:

                                                              Year Ended
                                                           October 31, 2002
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -------------------------
    Statement of Operations Data:
      Net sales                                         $793,976       $794,676
      Product costs                                     $410,118       $411,518
      Royalties                                         $ 80,774       $ 80,442
      Cost of sales                                     $499,016       $500,084
      Gross Profit                                      $294,960       $294,592
      Depreciation and amortization                     $ 11,187       $ 10,829
      Income from operations                            $122,715       $122,705
      Income before provision for income taxes          $120,948       $120,938
      Provision for income taxes                        $ 49,383       $ 49,375
      Net income                                        $ 71,565       $ 71,563
      Basic net income per share                        $   1.88       $   1.88
      Diluted net income per share                      $   1.81       $   1.81




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                            October 31, 2002
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -----------   -----------
    Balance Sheet Data:
      Accounts receivable, net *                        $107,188       $105,576
      Prepaid royalties, current                        $ 13,723       $ 14,215
      Deferred tax asset                                $  5,392       $  6,245
      Total current assets                              $328,632       $328,365
      Total assets                                      $491,707       $491,440
      Accrued expenses and other current
        liabilities *                                   $ 49,821       $ 50,698
      Income taxes payable                              $  1,603       $  1,357
      Total current liabilities                         $131,179       $131,810
      Retained earnings                                 $ 87,804       $ 86,906
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity        $491,707       $491,440

   * Restated amounts reflect a reclassification relating to the presentation of
   allowances.

   The Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended
   October 31, 2001 has been restated as follows:

                                                              Year Ended
                                                           October 31, 2001
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       As Reported   As Restated
                                                       -------------------------
    Statement of Operations Data:
      Net sales                                         $448,801       $451,396
      Product costs                                     $283,522       $282,279
      Royalties                                         $ 18,573       $ 19,875
      Cost of sales                                     $306,264       $306,323
      Gross Profit                                      $142,537       $145,073
      Income from operations                            $ 25,841       $ 28,377
      Loss before benefit for income taxes and
        cumulative change in accounting principle *     $ (6,660)      $ (4,124)
      Benefit for income taxes *                        $ (3,417)      $ (2,450)
      Net loss before cumulative change in
        accounting principle                            $ (3,243)      $ (1,674)
      Cumulative change in accounting principle         $ (5,337)      $ (5,244)
      Net loss                                          $ (8,580)      $ (6,918)
      Basic net loss per share                          $  (0.25)      $  (0.20)
      Diluted net loss per share                        $  (0.25)      $  (0.20)

   * As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145,
   "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment to FASB Statement
   No. 13, and Technical Corrections" ("SFAS 145"), the $1,948 net loss on
   extinguishment of debt for the year ended October 31, 2001 previously
   classified as an extraordinary item has been reclassified in the As Reported
   column as follows: $3,165 of loss on extinguishment to non-operating expenses
   and $1,217 of tax benefit to benefit for income taxes in the above table.

   All applicable amounts relating to the aforementioned restatements have been
   reflected in these consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

   Basis of Presentation

   The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the
   Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and for entities for which the
   Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary as defined in FASB
   Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities". All
   material inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in
   consolidation.

   Certain amounts in the financial statements of the prior years have been
   reclassified to conform to the current year presentation for comparative
   purposes.

   Estimates

   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
   accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
   that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure
   of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements
   and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting
   periods. The most significant estimates and assumptions relate to the
   recoverability of prepaid royalties, capitalized software development costs
   and other intangibles, valuation of inventories, realization of deferred
   income taxes and the adequacy of allowances for returns, price concessions
   and doubtful accounts. Actual amounts could differ significantly from these
   estimates.

   Concentration of Credit Risk

   A significant portion of the Company's cash balance is maintained with
   several major financial institutions. While the Company attempts to limit
   credit exposure with any single institution, there are times that balances
   will exceed insurable amounts.

   If the financial condition and operations of the Company's customers
   deteriorate, the risk of collection could increase substantially. As of
   October 31, 2003 and 2002, the receivable balances from the Company's five
   largest customers amounted to approximately 54.6% and 43.6% of the Company's
   net receivable balance, respectively, with two customers accounting for 16.6%
   and 11.7% at October 31, 2003 and with two customers representing 14.1% and
   10.3% at October 31, 2002. For each of the three years in the period ended
   October 31, 2003, the Company's five largest customers accounted for 38.6%,
   31.4%, and 20.8% of net sales, respectively. For the year ended October 31,
   2003, one customer accounted for $117,636, or 11.4%, of net sales. Except for
   the largest customers noted above, all receivable balances from the remaining
   individual customers were less than 10% of the Company's net receivable
   balance. The Company maintained insurance, to the extent available, on the
   receivable balances, with certain limits, in the event of a customer's
   bankruptcy or insolvency. In November 2003, the Company terminated this
   insurance.

   Revenue Recognition

   Publishing revenue is derived from the sale of internally developed
   interactive software titles or from the sale of titles licensed from
   third-party developers. Publishing revenue amounted to $671,892, $568,492,
   and $244,071 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

   Distribution revenue is derived from the sale of third-party interactive
   software titles, hardware and accessories. Distribution revenue amounted to
   $361,801, $226,184 and $207,325 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The Company recognizes revenue upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to
   its customers. The Company applies the provisions of Statement of Position
   97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition" in conjunction with the applicable
   provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition."
   Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for software when there is (1)
   persuasive evidence that an arrangement with our customer exists, which is
   generally a customer purchase order, (2) the software is delivered, (3) the
   selling price is fixed or determinable and (4) collection of the customer
   receivable is deemed probable. The Company's payment arrangements with
   customers typically provide net 30 and 60-day terms.

   Revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and
   price concessions. In specific circumstances when the Company does not have a
   reliable basis to estimate returns and price concessions or is unable to
   determine that collection of receivables is probable, it defers the sale
   until such time as it can reliably estimate any related returns and
   allowances and determine that collection of the receivables is probable.

   The Company accepts returns and grants price concessions in connection with
   its publishing arrangements. Following reductions in the price of the
   Company's products, it grants price concessions to permit customers to take
   credits against amounts they owe the Company with respect to merchandise
   unsold by them. The Company's customers must satisfy certain conditions to
   entitle them to return products or receive price concessions, including
   compliance with applicable payment terms and confirmation of field inventory
   levels.

   The Company's distribution arrangements with customers do not give them the
   right to return titles or to cancel firm orders. However, the Company
   sometimes accepts returns from its distribution customers for stock balancing
   and makes accommodations to customers, which includes credits and returns,
   when demand for specific titles falls below expectations.

   The Company makes estimates of future product returns and price concessions
   related to current period product revenue. The Company estimates the amount
   of future returns and price concessions for published titles based upon,
   among other factors, historical experience, customer inventory levels,
   analysis of sell-through rates and changes in demand and acceptance of its
   products by consumers.

   Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in
   connection with establishing the allowance for returns and price concessions
   in any accounting period. The Company believes it can make reliable estimates
   of returns and price concessions. However, actual results may differ from
   initial estimates as a result of changes in circumstances, market conditions
   and assumptions. Adjustments to estimates are recorded in the period in which
   they become known.

   Effective November 1, 2000, the Company adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin
   ("SAB") No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements". Consistent
   with the guidelines provided in SAB No. 101, the Company changed its revenue
   recognition policy to recognize revenue as noted above. Prior to the adoption
   of SAB 101, the Company recognized revenue upon shipment. As a result of
   adopting SAB 101, net sales and cost of sales of approximately $23.8 million
   and $15.1 million, respectively, which were originally recognized in the year
   ended October 31, 2000 were also recognized in the year ended October 31,
   2001. The cumulative effect of the application of the revenue recognition
   policies set forth in SAB 101 for the year ended October 31, 2001, as
   restated, was approximately $5.2 million net of tax benefit of approximately
   $3.5 million, or $0.15 per share.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   Advertising

   The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense for
   the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 amounted to $55,795, $39,909
   and $22,983, respectively.

   Cash and Cash Equivalents

   The Company considers all highly liquid instruments purchased with original
   maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

   Inventory

   Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market. The Company
   periodically evaluates the carrying value of its inventories and makes
   adjustments as necessary. Estimated product returns are included in the
   inventory balance at their cost. Estimated product returns at October 31,
   2003 and 2002 were $8,706 and $5,015, respectively.

   Prepaid Royalties

   The Company's agreements with licensors and developers generally provide it
   with exclusive publishing rights and require it to make advance royalty
   payments that are recouped against royalties due to the developer based on
   product sales. Prepaid royalties are amortized as cost of sales on a
   title-by-title basis based on the greater of the proportion of current year
   sales to total of current and estimated future sales for that title or the
   contractual royalty rate based on actual net product sales. The Company
   continually evaluates the recoverability of prepaid royalties and charges to
   cost of sales the amount that management determines is probable that will not
   be recouped at the contractual royalty rate in the period in which such
   determination is made or if the Company determines that it will cancel a
   development project. Included in prepaid royalties at October 31, 2003 and
   2002, respectively, are $14,241 and $22,561 related to titles that have not
   been released yet. Prepaid royalties are classified as current and
   non-current assets based upon estimated net product sales within the next
   year.

   The following table provides the details of total prepaid royalties:

                                                 Years Ended October 31,
                                           -----------------------------------
                                             2003        2002          2001
                                           --------   ----------    ----------
                                                      (Restated)    (Restated)

             Beginning balance             $ 26,418    $ 33,149      $ 24,718
             Additions                       30,034      28,555        25,423
             Amortization                   (19,065)    (21,238)      (15,798)
             Reclassification                (7,251)      1,419            --
             Write down                      (9,525)    (15,126)       (1,196)
             Foreign exchange                    24        (341)            2
                                           --------    --------      --------
             Ending balance                  20,635      26,418        33,149
             Less current balance            12,196      14,215        22,052
                                           --------    --------      --------
             Non-current balance           $  8,439    $ 12,203      $ 11,097
                                           ========    ========      ========

   The reclassification for the year ended October 31, 2003 principally reflects
   the transfer of prepaid royalties paid to Angel Studios, Inc. and Frog City,
   Inc. prior to their acquisition by the Company as a component of the purchase
   price of the acquisitions.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   Capitalized Software Development Costs

   The Company capitalizes internal software development costs, as well as film
   production and other content costs, subsequent to establishing technological
   feasibility of a title. Capitalized software development costs represent the
   costs associated with the internal development of the Company's publishing
   products. Amortization of such costs as a component of cost of sales is
   recorded on a title-by-title basis based on the greater of the proportion of
   current year sales to total of current and estimated future sales for the
   title or the straight-line method over the remaining estimated useful life of
   the title. The Company continually evaluates the recoverability of
   capitalized software costs and will charge to cost of sales any amounts that
   are deemed unrecoverable or for projects that it will abandon.

   The following table provides the details of capitalized software development
   costs:

                                              Years Ended October 31,
                                           -----------------------------
                                             2003       2002      2001
                                           --------   -------    -------
             Opening balance               $ 10,385   $ 9,739    $ 7,668
             Additions                       15,923     9,645      6,293
             Amortization                   (10,940)   (7,633)    (3,780)
             Reclassification                    --    (1,419)        --
             Write down                         (63)     (490)      (389)
             Foreign exchange                 1,031       543        (53)
                                           --------   -------    -------
             Balance, October 31           $ 16,336   $10,385    $ 9,739
                                           ========   =======    =======

   For the year ended October 31, 2001, capitalized software development costs
   of $389 were written off as cost of sales - software development costs, as
   part of the impairment charge as described in Note 4.

   Property and Equipment

   Office equipment, furniture and fixtures and automobiles are depreciated
   using the straight-line method over their estimated lives ranging from five
   to seven years. Computer equipment and software are depreciated using the
   straight-line method over three years. Leasehold improvements are amortized
   over the lesser of the term of the related lease or estimated useful lives.
   Accumulated amortization includes the amortization of assets recorded under
   capital leases, which amounted to approximately $88 and $92 at October 31,
   2003 and 2002, respectively. The cost of additions and betterments are
   capitalized, and repairs and maintenance costs are charged to operations in
   the periods incurred. When depreciable assets are retired or sold, the cost
   and related allowances for depreciation are removed from the accounts and the
   gain or loss is recognized. The carrying amounts of these assets are recorded
   at historical cost.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   Intangible Assets

   Intangible assets consist of identifiable intangibles and the remaining
   excess purchase price paid over identified intangible and tangible net assets
   of acquired companies (goodwill). Effective November 1, 2001, the Company
   adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
   141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141") in its entirety and Statement of
   Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
   Assets" ("SFAS 142"). SFAS 141 requires all business combinations be
   accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and that certain
   intangible assets acquired in a business combination shall be recognized as
   assets apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 addresses the recognition and
   measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their
   acquisition. SFAS 142 provides that intangible assets with finite useful
   lives be amortized and that intangible assets with indefinite lives and
   goodwill not be amortized. The Company discontinued the amortization of
   goodwill as of November 1, 2001. Identifiable intangibles are amortized under
   the straight-line method over the period of expected benefit ranging from
   three to ten years, except for intellectual property, which is amortized
   based on the shorter of the useful life or expected revenue stream. Prior to
   November 1, 2001, intangible assets were amortized under the straight line
   method over the period of expected benefit of seven years for the acquisition
   of development studios and ten years for the acquisition of distribution
   operations. Upon completion of the transitional impairment test, the fair
   value for each of our reporting units exceeded the reporting unit's carrying
   amount and no impairment was indicated.

   SFAS 142 requires an annual test for impairment of goodwill, and between
   annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely
   than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.
   In assessing potential impairment of goodwill, the Company determines the
   implied fair value of each reporting unit using discounted cash flow analysis
   and compares such values to the respective reporting unit's carrying amount.
   The Company performs its annual test for indication of goodwill impairment in
   the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. At October 31, 2003 and 2002, the
   fair value of the Company's reporting units exceeded the carrying amounts and
   no impairment was indicated.

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

   The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions
   of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the
   Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144"), which was adopted
   in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 with no material effect on the Company's
   financial condition and results of operations. SFAS 144 requires that
   long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
   circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
   recoverable, including assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously
   held and used or newly acquired. The Company compares the carrying amount of
   the asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result
   from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds
   estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company records an
   impairment charge for the difference between the carrying amount of the asset
   and its fair value. The estimation of fair value is generally measured by
   discounting expected future cash flows at the Company's incremental borrowing
   rate or fair value if available.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   Stock-Based Compensation

   The Company accounts for its employee stock option plans in accordance with
   Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
   Employees" ("APB 25"). Under APB 25, generally no compensation expense is
   recorded when the terms of the award are fixed and the exercise price of the
   employee stock option equals or exceeds the fair value of the underlying
   stock on the date of grant. The Company adopted the disclosure-only
   provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
   "Accounting for Stock- Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123").

   Had compensation cost for the Company's stock option plans been determined
   based on the fair value at the grant date for awards consistent with the
   provisions of SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and the net income per
   share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below.



   The pro forma disclosures shown are not representative of the effects on net
   income and the net income per share in future periods.

   Pro forma net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share for the years
   ended October 31, 2002 and 2001 also differ from amounts previously reported
   as a result of adjustments made to correct computational errors.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The fair value of the Company's stock options used to compute pro forma net
   income and the net income per share disclosures is the estimated present
   value at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
   weighted average fair values of options granted were $15.05, $9.13 and $5.76
   for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The
   following weighted average assumptions for 2003 were used to value grants:
   expected volatility of 78%; a risk-free interest rate of 2.60%; and an
   expected holding period of 4.2 years. The following weighted average
   assumptions for 2002 were used to value grants: expected volatility of 74%; a
   risk-free interest rate of 1.77%; and an expected holding period of 4.1
   years. The following weighted average assumptions for 2001 were used to value
   grants: expected volatility of 85% for grants with a holding period of 2
   years, 79% for a holding period of 3 years and 75% for holding periods of 4
   to 5 years; a risk-free interest rate of generally 4.85% to 5.0%; and an
   expected holding period of two to five years. Dividends were assumed to be
   zero for years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

   Net Income (Loss) per Share

   Basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed by dividing the net income
   (loss) applicable to common stockholders for the year by the weighted-average
   number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is computed
   by dividing the net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders for the
   year by the weighted-average number of common and common stock equivalents,
   which include common shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options,
   restricted stock (for fiscal 2003) and warrants outstanding during the year.
   Common stock equivalents are excluded from the computation if their effect is
   antidilutive.

   Comprehensive Income (Loss)

   Comprehensive income (loss) includes net income adjusted for the change in
   foreign currency translation adjustments and the change in net unrealized
   gain (loss) from investments.

   Income Taxes

   The Company recognizes deferred taxes under the asset and liability method of
   accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred
   income taxes are recognized for differences between the financial statement
   and tax bases of assets and liabilities at currently enacted statutory tax
   rates for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The
   effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in
   the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are
   established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts
   expected to be realized after considering tax planning strategies, if
   applicable. No income taxes have been provided on the undistributed earnings
   of foreign subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently
   reinvested in those companies.

   Foreign Currency Translation

   The functional currency for the Company's foreign operations is the
   applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are translated into
   U.S. dollars using quarter or year-end exchange rates for assets and
   liabilities at the balance sheet date and average prevailing exchange rates
   for the period for revenue and expense accounts. Adjustments resulting from
   translation are included in other comprehensive income (loss). Realized and
   unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period
   in which they occur. Foreign exchange transaction gains (loss) included in
   net income for fiscal years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 amounted to
   $2,015, $840 and $(108), respectively.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash
   and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
   liabilities, approximate fair value because of their short maturities.
   Investments are reported at fair value. The carrying amount of prepaid
   royalties approximate fair value based upon the recoverability of these
   assets. The carrying amount of the Company's lines of credit approximates
   fair value because the interest rates of the lines of credit are based on
   floating rates identified by reference to market rates. The carrying amounts
   of the Company's loan payable and capital lease obligations approximate the
   fair value of such instruments based upon management's best estimate of
   interest rates that would be available to the Company for similar debt
   obligations.

   Consideration Given to Customers or Resellers

   In November 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Emerging
   Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF Issue 01-09, Accounting
   for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or Reseller of the Vendor's
   Products, which is a codification of EITF 00-14, 00-22 and 00-25. This EITF
   presumes that consideration from a vendor to a customer or reseller of the
   vendor's products to be a reduction of the selling prices of the vendor's
   products and, therefore, should be characterized as a reduction of revenue
   when recognized in the vendor's income statement and could lead to negative
   revenue under certain circumstances. Revenue reduction is required unless
   consideration relates to a separate identifiable benefit and the benefit's
   fair value can be established. The Company has early adopted EITF 01-09
   effective November 1, 2001. The adoption of the new standard did not have a
   material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The prior period
   financial statements have been reclassified in accordance with this statement
   and as a result, net sales and selling and marketing expenses have been
   reduced by $2,255 for the year ended October 31, 2001, with no impact on
   reported net loss.

   Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

   In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for
   Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS
   143"). The objective of SFAS 143 is to provide accounting guidance for legal
   obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. The
   provisions of SFAS 143 are effective for financial statements issued for
   fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 143 in the
   first quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have an impact on the Company's
   financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

   In April 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
   No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment to FASB
   Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections" ("SFAS 145"). SFAS 145
   eliminates the requirement (in SFAS 4) that gains and losses from the
   extinguishments of debt be aggregated and classified as extraordinary items,
   net of the related income tax. Under this pronouncement, the $1,948 net loss
   on extinguishment of debt for the year ended October 31, 2001 previously
   classified as an extraordinary item has been reclassified as follows: $3,165
   of loss on extinguishment to non-operating expenses and $1,217 of tax benefit
   to provision for income taxes. The adoption of SFAS 145 in fiscal 2003 did
   not have any impact on the Company's financial condition, cash flows and
   results of operations, other than the reclassification referred to above.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   In January 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
   No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities"
   ("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146 requires the recognition of such costs when they are
   incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan.
   The provisions of SFAS 146 are to be applied prospectively to exit or
   disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS
   146 in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have a material impact on the
   Company's financial condition and results of operations.

   In December 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
   No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and
   Disclosure" ("SFAS 148"). SFAS 148 amends the transition provisions of FASB
   No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", for entities that
   voluntarily change to the fair value method of accounting for stock-based
   employee compensation. The Company does not currently intend to change its
   accounting to the fair value method. SFAS 148 also amends the disclosure
   provisions of SFAS 123 to require prominent disclosure about the effects on
   reported net income of an entity's accounting policy decisions with respect
   to stock-based employee compensation and amends APB Opinion No. 28, "Interim
   Financial Reporting" ("APB 28") to require disclosures about such effects in
   interim financial information. The disclosure provisions of the amendments to
   FASB 123 were adopted by the Company in the second quarter of fiscal 2003.

   In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
   Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
   Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 expands previously
   issued accounting guidance and disclosure requirements for certain guarantees
   and requires recognition of an initial liability for the fair value of an
   obligation assumed by issuing a guarantee. The provision for initial
   recognition and measurement of liability will be applied on a prospective
   basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption
   of FIN 45 in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have any impact on the
   Company's financial condition or results of operations.

   In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of
   Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"). FIN 46 requires a variable interest
   entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a
   majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity's activities
   or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's residual return or both.
   FIN 46 also provides criteria for determining whether an entity is a variable
   interest entity subject to consolidation. FIN 46 requires immediate
   consolidation of variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003.
   For variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003,
   consolidation is required on July 1, 2003. The adoption of FIN 46 in the
   third quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have a material impact on the Company's
   financial condition or results of operations (see Note 4).

   In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
   Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 149"). SFAS No. 149
   amends and clarifies financial accounting and reporting for derivative
   instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
   contracts and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
   Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." In general, SFAS No. 149 is
   effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003 and for
   hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. The adoption of SFAS
   149 did not have any impact on the Company's financial condition or results
   of operations.

   In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
   Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity" ("SFAS
   150"). SFAS 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and
   measures in its statement of financial position certain financial instruments
   with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. In accordance with SFAS
   150, financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer are
   required to be classified as liabilities. SFAS 150 is effective for financial
   instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise shall
   be effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after
   June 15, 2003, except for the provisions relating to mandatorily redeemable
   financial instruments which have been deferred indefinitely. The adoption of
   SFAS 150 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have any impact on the
   Company's financial condition.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


4. BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND CONSOLIDATION

   The Company acquired seven companies that develop, publish or distribute
   interactive software games during the three-year period ended October 31,
   2003. The aggregate purchase price, including cash payments and issuance of
   its common stock was $42,075, $7,626 and $28,143 in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
   respectively. The value of the Company's common stock issued in connection
   with these acquisitions has been based on the market price of the Company's
   common stock at the time such proposed transactions were agreed and
   announced.

   The acquisitions described below have been accounted for as purchase
   transactions in accordance with APB No. 16 and SFAS 141 (for transactions
   after July 1, 2001) and, accordingly, the results of operations and financial
   position of the acquired businesses are included in the Company's
   consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition.

   2003 Transactions

   During the quarter ended July 31, 2003, the Company acquired the assets of
   Frog City, Inc. ("Frog City"), the developer of Tropico 2: Pirate Cove, and
   the outstanding membership interests of Cat Daddy Games LLC ("Cat Daddy"),
   another development studio. The total purchase price for both studios
   consisted of $757 in cash and $319 of prepaid royalties previously advanced
   to Frog City. The Company also agreed to make additional payments of up to
   $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy, based on a percentage of Cat
   Daddy's profits for the first three years after acquisition, which will be
   recorded as compensation expense if the targets are met. In connection with
   the acquisitions, the Company recorded goodwill of $1,267 and net liabilities
   of $191.

   In November 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
   of Angel Studios, Inc. ("Angel"), the developer of the Midnight Club and
   Smuggler's Run franchises. The purchase price consisted of 235,679 shares of
   restricted common stock (valued at $6,557), $28,512 in cash and $5,931 (net
   of $801 of royalties payable to Angel) of prepaid royalties previously
   advanced to Angel. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded
   identifiable intangibles of $4,720 (comprised of intellectual property of
   $2,810, technology of $1,600 and non-competition agreements of $310),
   goodwill of $37,425 and net liabilities of $1,145.

   In April 2003, the Company entered into an agreement with Destineer
   Publishing Corp. ("Destineer"), a publisher of PC games, under which
   Destineer granted the Company exclusive distribution rights to eight PC games
   and two console ports to be published by Destineer. The Company agreed to
   make recoupable advances to Destineer of approximately $6,700 and to pay
   Destineer with respect to product sales under the distribution agreement. In
   addition, the Company agreed to make a loan to Destineer of $1,000. Destineer
   granted the Company an immediately exercisable option to purchase a 19.9%
   interest in Destineer and a second option to purchase the remaining interest
   for a price equal to a multiple of Destineer's EBIT, exercisable during a
   period following April 2005. The fair value of these options was not
   significant. Pursuant to the requirements of FIN 46, since Destineer is a
   variable interest entity and the Company is considered to be the primary
   beneficiary (as defined in FIN 46), the results of Destineer's operations
   have been consolidated in the accompanying financial statements.

   The 2003 acquisitions did not have a material effect on the Company's fiscal
   2003 results of operations.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   2002 Transaction

   In August 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of
   Barking Dog Studios Ltd. ("Barking Dog"), a Canadian-based development
   studio. The purchase price consisted of 242,450 shares of restricted common
   stock (valued at $3,801), $3,000 in cash, $825 of prepaid royalties
   previously advanced to Barking Dog and assumed net liabilities of $70. In
   connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded identifiable
   intangibles of $1,800, comprised of non-competition agreements of $1,600 and
   intellectual property of $200, and goodwill of $6,772. The acquisition of
   Barking Dog did not have a significant effect on the Company's fiscal 2002
   results of operations.

   2001 Transactions

   In July 2001, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of
   Techcorp Limited ("Techcorp"), a Hong Kong based design and engineering firm
   specializing in video game accessories. In consideration, the Company issued
   30,000 shares of the Company's restricted common stock (valued at $572), paid
   $100 in cash and assumed net liabilities of approximately $2,856. In
   connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of $3,558.

   In November 2000, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
   of VLM Entertainment Group, Inc. ("VLM"), a company engaged in the
   distribution of third-party software products. In connection with this
   transaction, the Company paid the former stockholders of VLM $2,000 in cash
   and issued 875,000 shares of the Company's common stock (valued at $8,039)
   and assumed net liabilities of approximately $10,627. In connection with this
   transaction, the Company recorded intangible assets of approximately $20,693.

   In connection with the sale of a subsidiary to Gameplay.com plc ("Gameplay")
   in October 2000, the Company agreed to acquire Gameplay's game software
   development and publishing business, Neo Software Produktions GMBH ("Neo").
   Such acquisition was completed in January of 2001 and the Company assumed net
   liabilities of $808, in addition to the prepaid purchase price of $17,266. In
   connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill and
   intangibles of $18,183.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The following table sets forth the components of the purchase price of the
   2001 acquisitions:



   Certain of Neo's internet-related technology assets were determined to be
   impaired in April 2001. Accordingly, the Company recorded as cost of sales an
   impairment charge of $3,786, consisting of $2,350 relating to server
   maintenance technologies and $1,047 relating to multiplayer technologies
   developed by Neo's development studio in connection with Online Pirates and
   $389 of capitalized software relating to other products to be developed by
   Neo. In addition, the Company recorded as selling and marketing expenses an
   impairment charge of $401 related to online sales promotions.

   Pro forma financial information for fiscal 2003 and 2002 acquisitions are not
   presented since the impact is not material. The unaudited pro forma data
   below for the year ended October 31, 2001 is presented as if purchase
   acquisitions for fiscal 2001 had been made as of November 1, 2000. The
   unaudited pro forma financial information is based on management's estimates
   and assumptions and does not purport to represent the results that actually
   would have occurred if the acquisitions had, in fact, been completed on the
   dates assumed, or which may result in the future.

                                                                   Unaudited
                                                                   Pro Forma
                                                               October 31, 2001
                                                               ----------------
                                                                   (Restated)
      Net sales                                                    $459,006
      Loss before cumulative effect of change in accounting
        principle                                                  $ (4,458)
      Net Loss                                                     $ (9,702)
      Net loss per share - Basic                                   $  (0.28)
      Net loss per share - Diluted                                 $  (0.28)

   Included in the unaudited pro forma information is amortization of goodwill
   of approximately $7,320, net of taxes of $2,799, for the year ended
   October 31, 2001.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


5. DISPOSITION OF ASSETS

   In July 2001, the Company sold all of the outstanding capital stock of Jack
   of All Games UK, a video game distributor, to Jay Two Limited, an
   unaffiliated third-party controlled by Freightmasters Ltd., for approximately
   $215. In connection with the sale, the purchaser assumed net liabilities of
   $436. The Company recorded a non-operating gain of $651. There were no income
   taxes payable on this gain.

6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL

   As a result of the adoption of SFAS 142, the Company discontinued the
   amortization of goodwill effective November 1, 2001. Identifiable intangible
   assets are amortized under the straight-line method over the period of
   expected benefit ranging from three to ten years, except for intellectual
   property, which is amortized based on the shorter of the useful life or
   expected revenue stream. The Company re-characterized acquired workforce of
   $925, which is not defined as an acquired intangible asset under SFAS 141, as
   goodwill. Additionally, the estimated useful lives of certain identifiable
   intangible assets were adjusted in conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 142.
   The adjustment to the useful lives did not have a material effect on the
   results of operations.

   Intangible assets consist of trademarks, intellectual property, customer
   lists and acquired technology. The excess purchase price paid over identified
   intangible and tangible net assets of acquired companies are reported
   separately as goodwill.

   During the year ended October 31, 2003, the Company acquired all the
   intellectual property rights associated with Army Men and School Tycoon for
   an aggregate cost of $1,075.

   In May 2002, the Company acquired all right, title and interest to the Max
   Payne product franchise, including all of the intellectual property rights
   associated with the brand, and a perpetual, royalty-free license to use the
   Max Payne game engine and related technology. The purchase price consisted of
   $10,000 in cash and 969,932 shares of restricted common stock (valued at
   $18,543). In October 2003, the Company recorded an additional intangible of
   $8,000, of which $1,000 related to the delivery of the final version of Max
   Payne 2 for the PC and $7,000 based on the determination that the sales
   targets for the PC and console versions of Max Payne would be achieved. The
   Max Payne assets acquired have been recorded as intellectual property and
   included in intangible assets.

   In December 2000, the Company acquired the exclusive worldwide publishing
   rights to the franchise of Duke Nukem PC and video games. In connection with
   the transaction, the Company paid $2,300 in cash and issued 557,103 shares of
   its common stock (valued at approximately $5,400). In addition, the Company
   is required to make a further payment of $6,000 contingent upon delivery of
   the final version of Duke Nukem Forever for the PC. The Company recorded an
   intangible asset of $7,700 related to the intellectual property purchased in
   this transaction. The additional $6,000 will be recorded as an additional
   intangible asset upon resolution of the contingency.

   In 2003, the Company recorded a charge of $4,407 related to the impairment of
   a customer list, which was included in depreciation and amortization (see
   Note 20.). In addition, cost of sales - product costs include $7,892 of
   intellectual property and technology written off in 2003, of which $5,499
   related to Duke Nukem Forever and its sequel, reflecting the continued
   development delays for these products.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The following table sets forth the components of the intangible assets
   subject to amortization as of October 31, 2003 and 2002:



   Amortization expense (including goodwill for 2001) for the years ended
   October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 amounted to $11,600, $9,893 and $9,309,
   respectively.

   Estimated amortization expense for the fiscal years ending October 31, are as
   follows:

                         2004                          $16,726
                         2005                            4,657
                         2006                            5,962
                         2007                            2,709
                         2008                            1,628
                                                       -------
                         Total                         $31,682
                                                       =======

   The change in goodwill for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2003 is as
   follows:

                 Balance October 31, 2002              $ 61,529
                  Acquisitions in fiscal 2003
                    Angel                                37,425
                    Frog City and Cat Daddy               1,267
                  Adjustments for 2002 acquisition        1,277
                                                       --------
                 Balance October 31, 2003              $101,498
                                                       ========

   The addition to goodwill in 2002 was the $5,496 related to the Barking Dog
   acquisition.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The following table provides a reconciliation of net income for exclusion of
   goodwill amortization:







              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


7. INVESTMENTS

   Investments are comprised of marketable equity securities and are classified
   as current and non-current assets. The investments are accounted for under
   the cost method as "available-for-sale" in accordance with Statement of
   Financial Standards No. 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
   Equity Securities". The investments are stated at fair value, with unrealized
   appreciation (loss) reported as a separate component of accumulated other
   comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity.

   For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2003 and 2002, the gross proceeds from
   the sale of investments were $114 and $6,170, respectively. The gross
   realized gain from these sales totaled $39 and $181, respectively. The
   gain/loss on sale of securities is based on the average cost of the
   individual securities sold.

   During 2001, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $21,477, consisting
   of approximately $19,171 relating to its investment in Gameplay, $2,000
   relating to its investment in eUniverse, Inc. based on the quoted market
   prices and $306 relating to its investment in a privately-held company, which
   is included in other non-current assets. All of these investments were deemed
   to be other than temporarily impaired.

8. INVENTORIES

   As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, inventories consist of:

                                                      2003             2002
                                                  -------------    -------------
     Parts and supplies                           $       4,793    $       3,221
     Finished products                                   96,955           71,170
                                                  -------------    -------------
                                                  $     101,748    $      74,391
                                                  =============    =============





              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


9.  FIXED ASSETS

    As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, fixed assets consist of:

                                                      2003             2002
                                                  -------------    -------------
     Computer equipment                           $      12,963    $       8,004
     Office equipment                                     5,096            3,811
     Computer software                                   11,529            8,981
     Furniture and fixtures                               3,157            1,850
     Automobiles                                             --              219
     Leasehold improvements                               6,047            3,265
     Capital leases                                         398              398
                                                  -------------    -------------
                                                         39,190           26,528
     Less: accumulated depreciation and
           amortization                                  16,930           11,209
                                                  -------------    -------------
                                                  $      22,260    $      15,319
                                                  =============    =============

    In 2003 and 2002, the Company capitalized costs of approximately $2,923 and
    $4,113, respectively, associated with software and hardware upgrades to its
    accounting systems.

    Depreciation expense for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001,
    amounted to $9,510, $6,457 and $3,731, respectively.

10. LINES OF CREDIT

    In December 1999, the Company entered into a credit agreement, as amended
    and restated in August 2002, with a group of lenders led by Bank of America,
    N.A., as agent. The agreement provides for borrowings of up to $40,000
    through the expiration of the line of credit on August 28, 2005. Generally,
    advances under the line of credit are based on a borrowing formula equal to
    75% of eligible accounts receivable plus 35% of eligible inventory. Interest
    accrues on such advances at the bank's prime rate plus 0.25% to 1.25%, or at
    LIBOR plus 2.25% to 2.75% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage
    ratio (as defined). The Company is required to pay a commitment fee to the
    bank equal to 0.5% of the unused loan balance. Borrowings under the line of
    credit are collateralized by the Company's accounts receivable, inventory,
    equipment, general intangibles, securities and other personal property,
    including the capital stock of the Company's domestic subsidiaries.
    Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the amount of
    outstanding letters of credit, which were $9,290 at October 31, 2003. The
    loan agreement contains certain financial and other covenants, including the
    maintenance of consolidated net worth, consolidated leverage ratio and
    consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. As of October 31, 2003, the
    Company was in compliance with such covenants. The loan agreement limits or
    prohibits the Company from declaring or paying cash dividends, merging or
    consolidating with another corporation, selling assets (other than in the
    ordinary course of business), creating liens and incurring additional
    indebtedness. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving
    line of credit as of October 31, 2003 and 2002.

    In February 2001, the Company's United Kingdom subsidiary entered into a
    credit facility agreement, as amended in March 2002, with Lloyds TSB Bank
    plc ("Lloyds") under which Lloyds agreed to make available borrowings of up
    to approximately $22,200. Advances under the credit facility bear interest
    at the rate of 1.25% per annum over the bank's base rate, and are guaranteed
    by the Company. Available borrowings under the agreement are reduced by the
    amount of outstanding guarantees. The facility expires on March 31, 2004.
    The Company had no outstanding guarantees or borrowings under this facility
    as of October 31, 2003 and 2002.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


11. ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

    Accrued expenses and other current liabilities as of October 31, 2003 and
    2002 consist of:

                                                      2003             2002
                                                  -------------    -------------
                                                                     (Restated)
     Accrued co-op advertising and product
       rebates                                    $       3,985    $       3,318
     Accrued VAT and payroll taxes                       11,593           10,249
     Royalties payable                                    8,521           14,784
     Deferred revenue                                     2,358           10,596
     Sales commissions                                   10,381            6,248
     Other                                               19,869            5,503
                                                  -------------    -------------
     Total                                        $      56,707    $      50,698
                                                  =============    =============

12. LOSS ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF DEBT

    In July 2000, the Company entered into a subordinated loan agreement with
    Finova Mezzanine Capital Inc. ("Finova") in the principal amount of $15
    million. The loan was payable in full in July 2005, and bore interest at the
    rate of 12.5% per annum. In July 2001, the Company prepaid the outstanding
    subordinated loan and recorded a loss of $3,165 related to the deferred
    financing costs and the unamortized discount associated with the loan.

13. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Capital Leases

    The Company leases equipment under capital lease agreements, which extend
    through fiscal year 2006. Future minimum lease payments under these capital
    leases, and the present value of such payments as of October 31, 2003 is as
    follows:

    Year ending October 31:
    -----------------------
    2004                                                          $         117
    2005                                                                     74
    2006                                                                      1
                                                                  -------------
    Total minimum lease payments                                            192
    Less: amounts representing interest                                     (16)
                                                                  -------------
    Present value of minimum obligations under capital leases     $         176
                                                                  =============




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Lease Commitments

    The Company leases 33 office and warehouse facilities. The former corporate
    headquarters are leased under a non-cancelable operating lease with a
    company controlled by the father of the chairman of the board and expires in
    March 2004. Rent expense and certain utility expenses under this lease
    amounted to $444, $403 and $474, for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002,
    and 2001, respectively. The other offices are under non-cancelable operating
    leases expiring at various times from December 2003 to October 2013. In
    addition, the Company has leased certain equipment, furniture and auto
    leases under non- cancelable operating leases, which expire through October
    2007.

    In September 2002, the Company relocated its principal executive offices to
    622 Broadway, New York, New York. The Company has recently leased additional
    space at 622 Broadway to accommodate its expanded operations. The Company
    estimates that as of October 31, 2003 it will incur an additional $1,200 in
    capital expenditures for continuing renovations and leasehold improvements
    for this space. In connection with signing a ten year lease, the Company
    provided a standby letter of credit of $1,560, expiring December 31, 2003.
    As a result of the relocation, the Company recorded expenses of $363 and
    $514 in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to lease costs with
    regard to the Company's former executive offices.

    Future minimum rentals required as of October 31, 2003 are as follows:

    Year ending October 31:
    -----------------------
    2004                                                         $        7,268
    2005                                                                  5,657
    2006                                                                  4,840
    2007                                                                  4,221
    2008                                                                  4,068
    Thereafter                                                           12,032
                                                                 --------------
    Total minimum lease payments                                         38,086
    Less minimum rentals to be received under subleases                    (221)
                                                                 --------------
                                                                 $       37,865
                                                                 ==============

    Rent expense amounted to $7,445, $5,090 and $3,353, for the years ended
    October 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Legal and Other Proceedings

    The Company received a Wells Notice from the Staff of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission stating the Staff's intention to recommend that the SEC
    bring a civil action seeking an injunction and monetary damages against the
    Company alleging that it violated certain provisions of the federal
    securities laws. The proposed allegations stem from the previously disclosed
    SEC investigation into certain accounting matters related to the Company's
    financial statements, periodic reporting and internal accounting controls.
    The Company's Chairman, an employee and two former officers also received
    Wells Notices. The Company has entered into discussions with the Staff to
    address the issues raised in the Wells Notice. The SEC's Staff also raised
    issues with respect to the Company's revenue recognition policies and its
    impact on its current and historical financial statements. The Company is
    unable to predict the outcome of these matters.

    The Company is involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of its
    business, which in management's opinion will not have a material adverse
    effect on the Company's financial condition, cash flows or results of
    operations.

    Other

    The Company periodically enters into distribution agreements to purchase
    various software games that require the Company to make minimum guaranteed
    payments. These agreements, which expire between June 2, 2004 and March 22,
    2005, require remaining aggregate minimum guaranteed payments of $14,330 at
    October 31, 2003, including $3,491 of payments due pursuant to an agreement
    with TDK Mediactive, Inc. ("TDK"). These agreements are collateralized by a
    standby letter of credit of $3,600 at October 31, 2003. Additionally,
    assuming performance by third-party developers, the Company has outstanding
    commitments under various software development agreements to pay developers
    an aggregate of $27,224 during fiscal 2004. The Company also expects to
    spend an additional $4,000 in connection with the implementation of
    accounting software systems for its international operations and the upgrade
    for its domestic operations.

    Additionally, in connection with the Company's acquisition of the publishing
    rights to the franchise of Duke Nukem PC and video games in December 2000,
    the Company is contingently obligated to pay $6,000 in cash upon delivery of
    the final version of Duke Nukem Forever for the PC. In May 2003, the Company
    agreed to make payments of up to $6,000 in cash upon the achievement of
    certain sales targets for Max Payne 2. The Company also agreed to make
    additional payments of up to $2,500 to the former owners of Cat Daddy based
    on a percentage of Cat Daddy's future profits for the first three years
    after acquisition. See Note 4. The payables will be recorded when the
    conditions requiring their payment are met.

14. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN

    The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement savings plan and trust (the
    "401(k) Plan"). The 401(k) Plan is offered to all eligible employees and
    participants may make voluntary contributions. The Company did not match
    employee contributions during the year ended October 31, 2001. The Company
    began matching contributions in July 2002. The matching contribution expense
    incurred by the Company during the years ended October 31, 2003 and 2002 was
    $384 and $95, respectively.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


15. INCOME TAXES

    The Company is subject to foreign income taxes in certain countries where it
    does business. Domestic and foreign (loss) income before income taxes and
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle is as follows:

                                          Years Ended October 31,
                              ------------------------------------------------
                                  2003              2002             2001
                              -------------     -------------    -------------
                                                  (Restated)        (Restated)

     Domestic                 $     134,746     $     115,142    $     (29,594)
     Foreign                         30,569             5,796           25,470
                              -------------     -------------    -------------
     Total                    $     165,315     $     120,938    $      (4,124)
                              =============     =============    =============


        Income tax expense (benefit) is as follows:

                                          Years Ended October 31,
                              ------------------------------------------------
                                  2003              2002             2001
                              -------------     -------------    -------------
                                                  (Restated)        (Restated)

     Current:
       Federal                $      33,167     $      35,275    $          --
       State and local                6,287             4,381              500
       Foreign                       14,703             2,993            5,450
     Deferred                        13,040             6,726           (8,400)
                              -------------     -------------    -------------
     Total                    $      67,197     $      49,375    $      (2,450)
                              =============     =============    =============

    The differences between the provision for income taxes and the income tax
    computed using the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to pretax income
    are as follows:






              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    The components of the net deferred tax asset as of October 31, 2003 and 2002
    consists of the following:

                                                    2003             2002
                                                -------------    -------------
                                                                   (Restated)

    Current:
    Deferred tax asset:
     Sales and related allowances               $       8,173    $       5,861
     Depreciation and amortization                        160              384
                                                -------------    -------------
    Total current deferred tax assets                   8,333            6,245

    Non-current deferred tax assets -
     Foreign net operating losses                       3,240            2,016
     State net operating losses                         3,311            2,069
     Capital loss carryforward                          7,963            7,983
                                                -------------    -------------
                                                       14,514           12,068
     Less: Valuation allowances                       (14,514)          (4,085)
                                                -------------    -------------
    Total non-current deferred tax assets                  --            7,983

    Non-current deferred tax liability -
     Capitalized software                              (8,486)          (3,885)
                                                -------------    -------------
       Net deferred tax (liability) asset       $        (153)   $      10,343
                                                =============    =============

    At October 31, 2003 and October 31, 2002, the Company had capital loss
    carryforwards totaling approximately $21,000. The capital loss carryforwards
    will expire in the periods fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2008. Failure to
    achieve sufficient levels of taxable income from capital transactions will
    affect the ultimate realization of the capital loss carryforwards. At
    October 31, 2002 management had a strategy of selling net appreciated assets
    of the Company, to the extent required to generate sufficient taxable income
    prior to the expiration of these benefits. At October 31, 2003, based on
    management's future plans, this strategy was no longer viable, and
    accordingly a valuation allowance has been recorded for this asset as it is
    more likely than not that the deferred tax asset related to these
    carryforwards will not be realized. At October 31, 2003, the Company had
    foreign net operating losses of $9,800 expiring between 2005 and 2010, and
    state net operating losses of $41,700 expiring between 2021 and 2023.
    Limitations on the utilization of these losses may apply, and accordingly
    valuation allowances have been recorded for these assets.

    The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries was
    approximately $60,700 and $41,900 for the years ended October 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively. It is the Company's intention to reinvest undistributed
    earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and thereby indefinitely postpone their
    remittance. Accordingly, no provision has been made for foreign withholding
    taxes or United States income taxes which may become payable if
    undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were paid as dividends to the
    Company.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


16. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    In July 2001, the Company issued 1,300,000 shares of common stock in a
    private placement to institutional investors and received proceeds of
    $20,892, net of $1,400 of selling commissions and offering expenses.

    In February 2001, certain stockholders of the Company exchanged and
    surrendered for cancellation 564,212 shares of the Company's Common Stock
    (valued at $7,310) for shares of Gameplay having an equal value.

    In February 2002, the Company issued 20,000 shares of restricted common
    stock to a former employee in connection with a separation agreement.

    In January 2003, the Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase
    program under which the Company may repurchase up to $25,000 of its common
    stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated
    transactions. The Company has not repurchased any shares under this program.

    In November 2003, at a special meeting, the Company's stockholders voted to
    amend the certificate of incorporation to increase the Company's authorized
    shares of common stock from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000.

17. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

    The components of and changes in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) are:



    The taxes in the above table relate to the changes in the net unrealized
    gain (loss) on investments. The foreign currency adjustments are not
    adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite investments in
    non-U.S. subsidiaries.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


18. INCENTIVE PLANS

    Incentive Stock Plan

    The Incentive Stock Plan ("Incentive Plan"), adopted by the Board of
    Directors on June 12, 2003, allows the granting of restricted stock,
    deferred stock and other stock-based awards of the Company's common stock to
    directors, officers and other employees of the Company. A maximum of 500,000
    shares are available for distribution under the Incentive Plan. As of
    October 31, 2003, 285,000 shares of restricted common stock have been
    granted under the Incentive Plan. The cost of the restricted shares granted
    is expensed over the vesting period. The Incentive Plan is administered by
    the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

    Stock Option Plans

    In June 2002, the stockholders of the Company approved the Company's 2002
    Stock Option Plan, as previously adopted by the Company's Board of Directors
    (the "2002 Plan"), pursuant to which officers, directors, employees and
    consultants of the Company may receive stock options to purchase up to an
    aggregate of 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock. In April 2003, the
    stockholders approved an increase in the aggregate amount of shares to
    4,000,000 shares.

    In January 1997, the stockholders of the Company approved the Company's 1997
    Stock Option Plan, as amended, as previously adopted by the Company's Board
    of Directors (the "1997 Plan"), pursuant to which officers, directors,
    employees and consultants of the Company may receive options to purchase up
    to an aggregate of 6,500,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock.

    Subject to the provisions of the plans, the Board of Directors or any
    Committee appointed by the Board of Directors, has the authority to
    determine the individuals to whom the stock options are to be granted, the
    number of shares to be covered by each option, the option price, the type of
    option, the option period, restrictions, if any, on the exercise of the
    option, the terms for the payment of the option price and other terms and
    conditions. As of April 30, 2002, there were no options available for grant
    under the 1997 Plan.

    As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, the plans had outstanding stock options for
    an aggregate of 3,066,000 and 2,764,000 shares of the Company's Common
    Stock, respectively, vesting at various times from 1998 to 2006 and expiring
    at various times from 2002 to 2007. Options granted generally vest over a
    period of three to five years.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Non-Plan Stock Options

    As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, there are non-plan stock options
    outstanding for an aggregate of 1,503,000 and 2,931,000 shares of the
    Company's Common Stock, respectively, vesting from 1999 to 2006 and expiring
    at various times from 2003 to 2007.

    For those options with exercise prices less than fair value of the
    underlying shares at the measurement date, the difference is recorded as
    deferred compensation and is amortized over the vesting period. Compensation
    expense for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 was
    approximately $26, $1,976 and $5, respectively.

    The following table summarizes the activity in options under the plans
    inclusive of non-plan options:

                                                                       Weighted
                                                                        Average
                                                          Shares       Exercise
                                                      (in thousands)     Price
                                                      --------------   --------
    Options outstanding - November 1, 2000                 4,199        $ 8.72
    Granted-exercise price equal to fair value             3,351        $ 9.94
    Granted-exercise price less than fair value              500        $13.91
    Exercised                                             (3,327)       $ 9.00
    Forfeited                                               (244)       $10.09
                                                          ------        ------

    Options outstanding - October 31, 2001                 4,479        $ 9.93
    Granted-exercise price equal to fair value             3,950        $16.40
    Granted-exercise price less than fair value               30        $ 0.01
    Exercised                                             (2,494)       $10.43
    Forfeited                                               (270)       $12.31
                                                          ------        ------

    Options outstanding - October 31, 2002                 5,695        $13.96
    Granted-exercise price equal to fair value             2,442        $25.26
    Exercised                                             (3,438)       $13.53
    Forfeited                                               (130)       $17.13
                                                          ------        ------
    Options outstanding - October 31, 2003                 4,569        $20.23
                                                          ======        ======




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    At October 31, 2003 and 2002 the number of options exercisable are 1,389,000
    and 3,014,000, respectively, and their related weighted average exercise
    prices are $15.09 and $12.56, respectively.

    The following summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
    exercisable at October 31, 2003:

                                                          Weighted     Average
                                              Shares      Average    Remaining
                                               (in       Exercise   Contractual
    Range of Exercise Prices                thousands)     Price    Life (years)
    ------------------------                ----------   --------   ------------
         $5.50 - $13.91                         986       $10.43        2.42
         $14.86 - $19.55                      1,365       $18.37        3.61
         $20.10 - $25.31                        963       $21.98        4.33
         $25.78 - $35.71                      1,255       $28.63        4.20
                                              -----
    Options outstanding - October 31, 2003    4,569       $20.23        3.67
                                              =====

         $5.50 - $13.91                         675       $10.42        2.16
         $14.86 - $19.55                        523       $17.98        3.53
         $20.10 - $25.31                        114       $21.88        4.10
         $25.78 - $35.71                         77       $26.43        3.98
                                              -----
    Options exercisable- October 31, 2003     1,389       $15.09        2.93
                                              =====



              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


19. RESULTS BY QUARTER (UNAUDITED)

    The following tables set forth restated quarterly supplementary data for
    each of the years in the two-year period ended October 31, 2003.

   The unaudited quarterly results of operations for each of the quarters in the
   fiscal year ended October 31, 2002 and for each of the three quarters in the
   period ended July 31, 2003 have been restated for the revised revenue
   recognition policy related to the change in the method of accounting for
   price concessions identified in Note 2.

                                   1st          2nd          3rd         4th
    2003                         Quarter      Quarter      Quarter     Quarter
    ----                        ---------    ---------    ---------   --------
                                (Restated)   (Restated)   (Restated)

    Net sales                    $411,008     $193,023    $152,055    $277,607
    Gross profit                  165,947       71,483      58,519     100,190
    Net income                   $ 51,535     $ 14,623    $  5,696    $ 26,264

    Per share data:
      Basic - EPS                $   1.26     $   0.35    $   0.13    $   0.60
      Diluted - EPS              $   1.22     $   0.35    $   0.13    $   0.58

    2002                                          As Restated
    ----                         ---------------------------------------------
    Net sales                    $286,945     $167,286    $123,117    $217,328
    Gross profit                  106,242       60,642      45,997      81,711
    Net income                   $ 36,752     $  8,010    $  5,049    $ 21,752

    Per share data:
      Basic - EPS                $   1.00     $   0.22    $   0.13    $   0.55
      Diluted - EPS              $   0.97     $   0.21    $   0.13    $   0.53




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    The following table summarizes the increase (decrease) in the results of
    operations for the reported 2003 and 2002 fiscal quarters as a result of the
    restatement discussed above:

                                                As                        As
                                             Reported    Restatement   Restated
                                             --------    -----------   --------
    Quarter ended January 31, 2003:

    Net Sales                                $408,794      $ 2,214     $411,008
    Gross Profit                              164,127        1,820      165,947
    Net income                               $ 50,462      $ 1,073     $ 51,535
    Per share data:
      Basic - EPS                            $   1.24      $  0.02     $   1.26
      Diluted - EPS                          $   1.20      $  0.02     $   1.22

    Quarter ended April 30, 2003:

    Net Sales                                $194,213      $(1,190)    $193,023
    Gross Profit                               72,474         (991)      71,483
    Net income                               $ 15,239      $  (616)    $ 14,623
    Per share data:
      Basic - EPS                            $   0.37      $ (0.02)    $   0.35
      Diluted - EPS                          $   0.36      $ (0.01)    $   0.35

    Quarter ended July 31, 2003:

    Net Sales                                $155,587      $(3,532)    $152,055
    Gross Profit                               61,669       (3,150)      58,519
    Net income                               $  7,649      $(1,953)    $  5,696
    Per share data:
      Basic - EPS                            $   0.18      $ (0.05)    $   0.13
      Diluted - EPS                          $   0.18      $ (0.05)    $   0.13






              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------




(1) The net sales reclassification represents freight income previously recorded
    as a reduction to product costs. The quarter ended October 31, 2002 also
    reflects a reclassification of $358 from depreciation and amortization to
    product costs.




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


20. CONSOLIDATION OF DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES

    In January 2003, based on management's strategy to consolidate the Company's
    distribution business, and after taking into account the relative cost
    savings involved, the Company closed its warehouse operations in Ottawa,
    Illinois and College Point, New York. Operations at these warehouses ceased
    by January 31 and the business conducted there was consolidated with the
    operations of the Company's Jack of All Games' distribution facility in
    Ohio.

    As a result of the closures, the Company recorded a charge of $7,028. The
    charge consisted of: (1) lease termination costs, representing the fair
    value of remaining lease payments, net of estimated sublease rent; (2)
    disposition of fixed assets, representing the net book value of fixed assets
    and leasehold improvements; (3) other exit costs; and (4) an impairment
    charge with respect to an intangible asset, representing a customer list
    relating to the business conducted at the Illinois facility.

    These costs are included in general and administrative expense for the year
    ended October 31, 2003, except for the intangibles impairment which is
    included in depreciation and amortization expense, and are summarized in the
    table below:





              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


21. SEGMENT INFORMATION

    The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,
    "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS
    131"), which established standards for reporting by public business
    enterprises of information about product lines, geographical areas and major
    customers. The method for determining what information to report is based on
    the way management organizes the Company for making operational decisions
    and assessment of financial performance. The Company's chief operating
    decision maker is considered to be the Company's Chief Executive Officer
    ("CEO"). The CEO reviews financial information presented on a consolidated
    basis accompanied by disaggregated information about sales by geographic
    region and by product platforms. The Company's Board of Directors reviews
    consolidated financial information. The Company's operations employ the same
    products and types of customers worldwide. The Company's product
    development, publishing and marketing activities are centralized in the
    United States under one management team, with distribution activities
    managed geographically. Accordingly, the Company's operations fall within
    one reportable segment as defined in SFAS 131.

    For the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, the Company's net
    sales in domestic markets accounted for approximately 72.1%, 80.0% and
    76.4%, respectively, and net sales in international markets accounted for
    27.9%, 20.0% and 23.6%, respectively.

    As of October 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company's net property, plant and
    equipment in domestic markets accounted for approximately $13,789 and
    $11,222, respectively, and net property, plant and equipment in
    international markets accounted for $8,471 and $4,097, respectively.

    Information about the Company's total non-current assets in the United
    States and international areas as of October 31, 2003 and 2002 are presented
    below:

                                                     2003         2002
                                                   --------     --------
             Total non-current assets:
             United States                         $118,523     $ 98,849
             International
             United Kingdom                          25,739       20,505
               All other Europe                      19,275       17,685
               Other                                 30,359       26,036
                                                   --------     --------
                                                   $193,896     $163,075
                                                   ========     ========




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Information about the Company's net sales in the United States and
    international areas for the years ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are
    presented below (net sales are attributed to geographic areas based on
    product destination):

                                             2003         2002          2001
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                                       (Restated)    (Restated)
    Net Sales:
      United States                       $  667,580    $606,467      $324,750
      Canada                                  77,360      28,965        20,080
      International
        United Kingdom                        88,381      47,021        32,227
        All other Europe                     175,717      98,490        61,187
        Asia Pacific                          22,885      12,593        12,478
        Other                                  1,770       1,140           674
                                          ----------    --------      --------
                                          $1,033,693    $794,676      $451,396
                                          ==========    ========      ========

    Information about the Company's net sales by product platforms for the years
    ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are presented below:

                                             2003         2002          2001
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                                       (Restated)    (Restated)
    Platforms:
      Sony PlayStation 2                  $  591,205    $473,214      $130,691
      Sony PlayStation                        58,334      58,718        75,084
      Microsoft Xbox                          84,112      54,144         2,428
      PC                                     147,275     102,734       103,849
      Nintendo Game Boy Color, Game Boy
        Advance and 64                        48,547      20,348        37,595
      Nintendo GameCube                       29,085      17,761            --
      Sega Dreamcast                             109       1,602        11,347
      Accessories                             20,165      31,734        31,536
      Hardware                                54,861      34,421        58,866
                                          ----------    --------      --------
                                          $1,033,693    $794,676      $451,396
                                          ==========    ========      ========




              TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (concluded)
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


22. NET INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
    PER SHARE

    The following table provides a reconciliation of basic (loss) earnings per
    share to diluted earnings per share for the years ended October 31, 2003,
    2002, and 2001.



    The computation for diluted number of shares excludes those unexercised
    stock options and warrants which are antidilutive. The number of such shares
    was 1,000,000, 143,000 and 222,000 for the years ended October 31, 2003,
    2002, 2001, respectively.

23. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

    In December 2003, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
    and paid certain liabilities of TDK Mediactive. The purchase price of
    approximately $14,276 consisted of $17,116 in cash and issuance of 163,641
    restricted shares of the Company's common stock (valued at $5,160), reduced
    by approximately $8,000 due to TDK Mediactive under a distribution
    agreement. The Company is in the process of completing the purchase price
    allocation. TDK's results will be included in the Company's operating
    results beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.

    In September 2003, the Company and TDK entered into an agreement providing
    the Company with the exclusive North American distribution rights for
    certain TDK titles, including The Haunted Mansion, Star Trek: Shattered
    Universe and Corvette. During the three months ended October 31, 2003, the
    Company recorded $9,225 of net sales related to this agreement. At October
    31, 2003, the Company owed $5,945 to TDK for purchases made under the
    agreement, which was included in accounts payable, and remaining guarantee
    payments of $3,491 under the contract.




                                     SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.

                                             By: /s/ Jeffrey C. Lapin
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 Jeffrey C. Lapin
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

Date: February 12, 2004


    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the date indicated.





                                   SCHEDULE II


              Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                                 (In thousands)



(A)     Includes increases in allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts
        due to normal reserving terms.

(B)     Includes actual write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable or sales
        returns and recoveries of previously written off receivables.

(C)     Includes allowance accounts acquired in conjunction with acquisitions in
        2001 and $2,297 related to foreign exchange in 2003 and $669 in 2002.

(D)     Includes price concessions of $45,919, $29,513 and $25,757; returns of
        $47,342, $28,350 and $40,543; other sales allowances including rebates,
        discounts, co-op advertising and bad debts of $31,390, $16,638 and
        $5,528 for year ended October 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.





