
10-K
0001.txt
ANNUAL REPORT






================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                -----------------

                                    FORM 10-K

/X/      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000

         OR

/ /      Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934

                                     0-29230
                              (Commission File No.)

                       TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.
               (Exact name of Issuer as specified in its charter)

                 Delaware                                  51-0350842
        (State or other jurisdiction                   (I.R.S. Employer
             of incorporation)                        Identification No.)

                     575 Broadway, New York, New York 10012
           (Address of principal executive offices including zip code)

         Issuer's telephone number, including area code: (212) 334-6633

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value

Check whether the Issuer (1) filed all reports required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the Issuer was required to file such
reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days. Yes  /X/   No / /

Check if there is no disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K contained herein, and no disclosure will be contained, to the
best of the Issuer's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

The Issuer's revenues for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000 were
$387,006,000.

The aggregate market value of the Issuer's common stock held by non-affiliates
as of January 23, 2001 was approximately $319,579,000. As of January 23, 2001,
there were 32,969,093 shares of the Issuer's common stock outstanding.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

                   Proxy Statement Relating to Annual Meeting
                          (incorporated into Part III)
================================================================================



                                     PART I

Item 1. Business.

General

         Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. is a leading global developer,
publisher and distributor of interactive software games. Our software operates
on PCs and video game consoles manufactured by Sony, Nintendo and Sega. We
develop software internally and engage third parties to develop software on our
behalf. We publish software under our Rockstar Games, Gathering of Developers,
Talonsoft, Mission Studios and Take-Two labels.

         Our Rockstar Games subsidiary released Smuggler's Run and Midnight
Club: Street Racing at the launch of Sony's PlayStation(R)2 in October 2000 and
Oni in January 2001, and has a strong line-up of additional PlayStation 2
titles, including sequels to the popular Grand Theft Auto, Duke Nukem and
Smuggler's Run brands. Our Gathering of Developers subsidiary also expects to
bring several blockbuster PC games to market, including the highly anticipated
Duke Nukem Forever, Tropico, Max Payne, Myth 3 and Hidden & Dangerous 2.

         Our Jack of All Games distribution subsidiary sells our software as
well as third-party software to retail outlets in the United States. Our
customers include WalMart, Toys R Us, Electronics Boutique, Babbage's, Best Buy
and Ames Department Stores, as well as leading national and regional drug store,
supermarket and discount store chains and specialty retailers. We also have
publishing and distribution operations in the United Kingdom, France, Germany,
Denmark, Italy, Australia, Canada and Japan.

The Industry

         A large and growing installed base of advanced PCs and video game
consoles combined with expanding gamer demographics have driven demand for
interactive software games in recent years. According to The NPD Group, sales of
video game consoles, software and accessories in the United States were
approximately $6.5 billion in 2000. Increased demand for interactive software is
expected as a result of the emergence of next-generation platforms, particularly
Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox, which are designed to exploit the
convergence of computing, digital technologies and the Internet.

         o Large Installed Base of PCs and Console Platforms. The International
Data Corporation estimates that approximately 56 million households in the
United States, or approximately 53% of all households, will own a PC by 2002.
Also, according to this source, the household penetration rate for video game
consoles in the United States today is approximately 38%, and is expected to
increase.

         o Broadening Gamer Demographics. Interactive software games have
increasingly become a mainstream entertainment choice for a maturing,
technologically sophisticated audience. Consumer demographics for interactive
software have expanded to include young adults, as well as women. The average
age of a gamer is now 28 years old. We expect that additional catalysts for
growth, including market penetration of budget software titles and the emergence
of non-traditional retail channels such as drug stores and supermarkets, will
help support this trend.

         o Emergence of Next-Generation Platforms. Sony has announced that it
plans to ship nine million units of its PlayStation 2 worldwide by March 2001.
PlayStation 2 specifications include a 128-bit, DVD-based system that is
Internet and cable ready, and is the first console system to feature backwards
compatibility with existing PlayStation software. Microsoft has announced that
it will launch the Xbox in


                                      -2-




the fall of 2001, and Nintendo has announced that it also plans to release
GameBoy Advance and the GameCube in late 2001. We believe that future-generation
gaming platforms with more powerful and realistic graphics and broadband
connectivity will be an integral part of the next major wave of digital home
entertainment.

Software Products

         We release titles with potential for broad consumer appeal. For the
year ended October 31, 1999, GTA2 shipped more than one million copies and with
Grand Theft Auto accounted for approximately 16.4% of our revenues. We released
more than sixty titles during the year ended October 31, 2000. For such year,
our five best-selling titles in the aggregate accounted for approximately 12.0%
of our revenues, with Smuggler's Run and Rainbow Six accounting for
approximately 3.1% and 2.5%, respectively, of our revenues.

         We plan to deliver high-profile game content for both PC and evolving
console markets, particularly for next-generation platforms with potential for
significant market penetration, including the following titles:




                                      -3-




Publishing and Licensing Arrangements

         We have entered into license agreements with Sony, Nintendo, Microsoft
and Sega to develop and publish software for the PlayStation, PlayStation 2,
Nintendo 64, Nintendo Color Gameboy, Xbox and Dreamcast in North America and
Europe. We are not required to obtain any license to develop titles for the PC.

         We actively seek to acquire licenses for well-recognized properties. We
recently acquired the exclusive worldwide publishing rights to the best-selling
franchise of Duke Nukem PC and video games, including the back catalog rights to
six products, as well as PC, console and sequel rights to Duke Nukem Forever,
the eagerly awaited sequel to the popular Duke Nukem 3D. Among other properties,
we also acquired the exclusive worldwide rights from New Line Productions to
publish and distribute titles based on Austin Powers movies, the exclusive
rights from MTV to exploit titles based on MTV's properties and certain rights
from Microsoft to develop two products utilizing Bungie Software's Halo game
engine.

Software Development

         We engage in software development through our internal development
studios, Talonsoft, Mission Studios, Alternative Reality Technologies, DMA
Design Limited, the developer of the Grand Theft Auto series, and PopTop
Software, the developer of Railroad Tycoon 2. We also maintain a development
studio focusing on games for the Nintendo GameBoy Color platform in the United
Kingdom under the name Tarantula. As of October 31, 2000, our internal
development studios and product development department employed 185 personnel
with the technical capabilities to develop software titles for all major game
platforms.

         For the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, we incurred costs
of $5,668,000, $5,263,000 and $1,702,000 on research and development relating to
our software titles.

         Many of our software titles are developed by third parties. We have
entered into agreements with developers such as Angel Studios, N-Space, Apogee
Software/3d Realms and Ritual Entertainment to develop software products on our
behalf. Agreements with developers generally require us to make advance payments
and pay royalties based on product sales and satisfy other conditions. Advances
for software products are generally recoupable against royalties due to
developers.

Marketing, Sales and Distribution

         Our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize exposure
and broaden distribution of our titles, promote brand name recognition, assist
retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. We market
titles by implementing aggressive public relations campaigns, primarily using
print and on-line advertising and to a lesser extent television and radio spots.
Print advertisements are placed in industry magazines using memorable tag lines,
visually appealing full color artwork and creative concepts to position and
distinguish our titles in the marketplace.

         We also employ various other marketing methods designed to promote
consumer awareness, including in-store promotions and point-of-purchase
displays, direct mail, cooperative advertising, attendance at trade shows, as
well as the use of distinctive packaging. As of October 31, 2000, we had a sales
and marketing staff of 162 persons.


                                      -4-





         We distribute our own titles and third-party titles through our
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited, Jack of
All Games, VLM Entertainment Group, DirectSoft, L.D.A. Distribution Limited,
Funsoft Nordic A.S., CD Verte Italia Spa, Take-Two Interactive Software Canada,
Ltd., Take-Two Interactive Germany GMBH and Take-Two Interactive France F.A. For
the year ended October 31, 2000, the sale of third-party products accounted for
approximately 47.8% of our revenues, with sales to our five largest customers
accounting for approximately 20.0% of our revenues. No single customer accounted
for more than 10% of our revenues during this period.

         We sell software to retail outlets in the United States and Europe
through direct relationships with large retail customers and third-party
distributors. Our domestic customers include WalMart, Toys R Us, Electronics
Boutique, Babbage's, Best Buy and Ames Department Stores as well as leading
national and regional drug store, supermarket and discount store chains and
specialty retailers. Our European customers include Dixons, Electronic Boutique,
Karstadt, Carrefour, and Auchan. We have publishing and distribution operations
in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Denmark, Italy, Australia, Canada and
Japan.

Manufacturing

         Production of PC software includes CD-ROM pressing, assembly of
components, printing of packaging and user manuals and shipping of finished
goods, which is performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our
specifications and forecasts. We believe that there are alternative sources for
these services that could be implemented without delay. However, we are
dependent on Nintendo to provide supplies of video game cartridges and on Sony
to provide supplies of CD-ROMs for use on their video game platforms. Nintendo
cartridges are more expensive to manufacture than CD-ROMs, resulting in a
greater inventory risk for those games. We purchase titles manufactured by
Nintendo and Sony by placing purchase orders in the ordinary course of business
and by obtaining letters of credit in favor of Nintendo. We send software code
and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions,
warranty information, brochures and packaging designs to manufacturers for
approval, testing and manufacturing. Titles are generally shipped within two
weeks of receipt of order. Titles manufactured by Nintendo are generally shipped
within four to six weeks of receipt of order. To date, we have not experienced
any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture of our titles or material
delays due to title defects. Our software titles carry a 90-day limited
warranty. In addition, our subsidiary Joytech Europe Limited manufactures video
game accessories and peripherals in Hong Kong and China.

Competition

         We compete both for licenses to properties and the sale of interactive
entertainment software with Sony, Nintendo and Sega, each of which is the
largest developer and marketer of software for its platforms. Sony and Nintendo
currently dominate the industry and have the financial resources to withstand
significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns,
particularly for prime-time television spots. These companies may also increase
their own software development efforts or focus on developing software products
for third party platforms.

         We also compete with domestic companies such as Electronic Arts,
Activision, Acclaim Entertainment, THQ, Midway Games, Hasbro, Microsoft and
Mattel and international companies such as Infogrames, Eidos, Capcom, Konami and
Namco. In addition, we believe that large software companies and media companies
are increasing their focus on the interactive entertainment software market.
Many of our competitors are developing on-line interactive games and interactive
networks that will compete with our software. Many of our competitors have far
greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do, and many
are able to carry larger inventories, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and
make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable
properties than we can.


                                      -5-




         Interactive entertainment software distribution channels have undergone
rapid change in recent years as a result of financial difficulties of certain
retailers and the emergence of new channels for distribution of software such as
mass merchandisers, other retail outlets and the Internet. An increasing number
of companies and new market entrants are competing for access to these channels.

         Retailers typically have limited shelf space and promotional resources,
and competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced
entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space
and promotional support. Competition for retail shelf space is expected to
increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures just to
maintain current levels of sales of our titles. Competitors with more extensive
lines and popular titles frequently have greater bargaining power with
retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of support and
shelf space that such competitors receive. Similarly, as competition for popular
properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties is
likely to increase, possibly resulting in reduced margins. Prolonged price
competition, increased licensing costs or reduced operating margins would cause
our profits to decrease significantly.

         Competition for our titles is influenced by the timing of competitive
product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may
result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our titles at
retail stores. Our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as
motion pictures, television and audio and video cassettes featuring similar
themes, on-line computer programs and forms of entertainment which may be less
expensive or provide other advantages to consumers.

Intellectual Property

         We develop proprietary software and technologies and have obtained the
rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. We attempt
to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and
trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure,
copying and distribution. Although we generally do not hold any patents or
registered copyrights, we seek to obtain trademark registrations for our product
names.

         Interactive entertainment software is susceptible to unauthorized
copying. Unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer
our titles to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard
as proprietary. In addition, our competitors could independently develop
technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies.

         As the amount of interactive entertainment software in the market
increases and the functionality of this software further overlaps, we believe
that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of
claims that such software infringes the copyrights or patents of others. From
time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging infringement of
their proprietary rights. Although we believe that our titles and technologies
and the titles and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with
whom we have contractual relationships do not and will not infringe or violate
proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary
rights of others may occur. Any claims of infringement, with or without merit,
could be time-consuming, costly and difficult to defend.

Employees

         As of December 31, 2000, we had 658 full-time employees. None of our
employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our
relations with employees to be good.

Item 2. Properties.


                                      -6-



Executive Offices

         Our principal executive offices are located at 575 Broadway, New York,
New York in approximately 13,300 square feet of space under a five-year lease
with 575 Broadway Corporation, a company controlled by Peter M. Brant, a
principal stockholder and the father of Ryan A. Brant, our Chairman. The lease
provides for an annual rent of $410,000 and expires in 2004. We believe that the
terms of the lease are no less favorable than could have been obtained from an
unaffiliated third-party.

International Operations

         Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited leases 12,500 square feet
of office space in Windsor, United Kingdom. The lease provides for a current
annual rent of approximately $400,000, plus taxes and utilities, and expires in
2011. Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited also leases office space in
Lincoln, United Kingdom. The lease provides for a current annual rent of
approximately $17,000 and expires in 2007.

         Subsidiaries of Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited lease
office and warehouse space at locations in Paris, France, Munich, Germany and
Tokyo, Japan for current aggregate annual rent of approximately $173,000.
Directsoft leases office and warehouse space in Hornsby, Australia at an annual
rent of approximately $48,000. Joytech Europe Limited leases office space in
Leighton Buzzard Beds, United Kingdom at an annual rent of approximately
$85,000. Funsoft Nordic A.S. and its subsidiaries lease office and warehouse
space at locations in Oslo, Norway, Spanga, Sweden and Arthus, Denmark for
current aggregate annual rent of approximately $45,000. DMA Design Limited
currently leases office space in Dundee and Edinburgh, Scotland, at an annual
rental of approximately $400,000. CD Verte Italia Spa currently leases office
and warehouse space in Golarata, Italy at an annual rent of approximately
$79,000.

Development Facilities

         Mission Studios leases 2,600 square feet of office space at an annual
rate of $54,000, subject to annual increases, pursuant to a lease that expires
in February 2004. ART leases approximately 3,600 square feet of space in
Ontario, Canada at an annual rental of approximately $26,000 plus taxes and
insurance. Talonsoft leases approximately 10,800 square feet of office space in
Baltimore, Maryland. Talonsoft currently pays $162,000 per annum under the
lease. PopTop Software leases approximately 3,300 square feet of office space in
Fenton, Missouri and pays an annual rental of $37,000.

Distribution Facilities

         Jack of All Games leases approximately 13,000 square feet of office and
warehouse space in College Point, New York. The lease provides for annual rent
of $96,000, plus increases in real estate taxes, and expires in July 2001. Jack
of All Games also leases approximately 206,000 square feet of office and
warehouse space in Cincinnati, Ohio. Jack of All Games pays $750,000 per annum,
plus taxes and insurance, under the lease, which expires in January 2006. Jack
of All Games Canada, Inc. (formerly Triad Distributors) currently leases
approximately 36,750 square feet of office and warehouse space in Ontario,
Canada at an annual rate of approximately $219,000 plus operating costs, under a
lease that expires September 2004. VLM Entertainment Group leases approximately
4,000 square feet of office space in Las Vegas, Nevada at an annual rental of
$56,000, and approximately 3,000 square feet of space in Northbrook, Illinois at
an annual rental of $33,000. VLM also leases approximately 56,200 square feet of
office and warehouse space in Ottawa, Illinois at an annual rent of $288,000.
VLM leases such space from



                                      -7-





its former stockholders and believes that the terms of the lease are no less
favorable than could have been obtained from an unaffiliated third-party.

         In addition, Gathering of Developers leases approximately 15,300 square
feet of office space in Dallas, Texas for an annual rent of $184,000. Gathering
of Developers also leases approximately 27,600 square feet of office space in
Austin, Texas for an annual rent of $167,000.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

         We are not involved in any significant legal proceedings.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

         Not Applicable.


                                      -8-






                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

         Market Information. Our common stock has traded since September 23,
1998 on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol "TTWO." From April 14, 1997
to September 22, 1998, our common stock traded on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of the high
ask and low bid prices for the common stock as reported by NASDAQ. Such prices
reflect inter-dealer quotations, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission
and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.




         On January 23, 2001, the last sale price for our common stock as
reported by NASDAQ was $12.25 per share. The number of record holders of our
common stock was approximately 157 as of January 23, 2001. We believe that there
are in excess of 1,000 beneficial owners of our common stock.

         Dividend Policy. To date, we have not declared or paid any cash
dividends. The payment of dividends, if any, in the future is within the
discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon future earnings,
capital requirements and other relevant factors. We presently intend to retain
all earnings to finance continued growth and development of our business and we
do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

                                      -9-





         Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities. In August 2000, we issued
559,100 shares of common stock in connection with the acquisition of PopTop
Software, Inc. The foregoing issuance was made in reliance on Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933.


                                      -10-




Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

                      (in thousands, except per share data)






                                      -11-






Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

         We make statements in this report and the documents incorporated by
reference that are considered forward looking statements under federal
securities laws. Such forward looking statements are based on the beliefs of our
management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to
them. The words "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "may," "estimate," "intend"
and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking
statements. Forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and
assumptions including, but not limited to: risks associated with our future
growth and operating results; our ability to continue to successfully manage
growth and integrate the operations of acquired businesses; the availability of
adequate financing to fund periodic cash flow shortages; credit risks; seasonal
factors; inventory obsolescence; technological change; competitive factors;
product returns; failure of retailers to sell-through our products; the timing
of the introduction and availability of new hardware platforms; market and
industry factors adversely affecting the carrying value of our assets; and
unfavorable general economic conditions, any or all of which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition. Actual operating results may vary significantly from such forward
looking statements.

Overview

         We are a leading global developer, publisher and distributor of
interactive software games. Our software operates on PCs and video game consoles
manufactured by Sony, Nintendo and Sega. The following table sets forth the
percentages of our publishing revenues derived from sales of titles for specific
platforms during the periods indicated:




         Revenue Recognition. Our principal sources of revenues are derived from
publishing and distribution operations. Publishing revenues are derived from the
sale of internally developed software or software licensed from third parties.
Distribution revenues are derived from the sale of third-party software and
hardware. Our publishing operations typically generate higher margins than
distribution operations, with sales of PC software resulting in higher margins
than sales of CDs or cartridges designed for video game consoles. We recognize
revenue from software sales when product ownership and risk of loss pass to our
customers.

         Returns and Reserves. Our arrangements with customers for published
titles require us to accept returns for stock balancing, markdowns or defects.
We establish a reserve for future returns of published titles at the time of
sales based primarily on our return policies and historical return rates, and we
recognize revenues net of returns. Our distribution arrangements with customers
generally do not give them the right to return titles or to cancel firm orders.
However, we sometimes accept returns for stock balancing and negotiate
accommodations to customers, which include price discounts, credits and returns,
when demand for specific titles fall below expectations. Our sales returns and
allowances for the years ended October 31, 2000 and 1999 were $40,162,000 and
$25,147,000, respectively. At October 31, 2000, our reserve against


                                      -12-





accounts receivable for returns, customer accommodations and doubtful accounts
was approximately $9,102,000. If future returns significantly exceed our
reserves, our operating results would be adversely affected.

         Capitalized Costs. Our agreements with licensors and developers
generally require us to make advance royalty payments and pay royalties based on
product sales. Prepaid royalties are amortized at the contractual royalty rate
as cost of sales based on actual net sales. At October 31, 2000, we had prepaid
royalties of $21,024,000. We also capitalize internal software development costs
subsequent to establishing technological feasibility of a title. Amortization of
such costs is based on the greater of the proportion of current year sales to
total estimated sales commencing with the title's release or the straight line
method. At October 31, 2000, we had capitalized software development costs of
$9,613,000. We continually evaluate the recoverability of capitalized costs. If
we were required to write-off these payments or costs to a material extent in
future periods, our results of operations would be adversely affected.

Results of Operations

         The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the percentage
of net sales represented by certain items reflected in our statement of
operations:



Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2000 and 1999

         Net Sales. Net sales increased by $81,074,000, or 26.5%, to
$387,006,000 for fiscal 2000 from $305,932,000 for fiscal 1999. The increase
reflects the expansion of our global publishing and distribution businesses,
with substantially all of the increase attributable to internal growth.
Publishing revenues increased by $41,688,000, or 26.0%, to $202,023,000 for
fiscal 2000 from $160,335,000 for fiscal 1999. Distribution revenues increased
by $39,386,000, or 27.1%, to $184,983,000 for fiscal 2000 from $145,597,000 for
fiscal 1999.

         For fiscal 2000, publishing and distribution activities accounted for
approximately 52.2% and 47.8%, respectively, of our net sales. For this year,
software products designed for PC and video game console platforms accounted for
approximately 18.7% and 52.4%, respectively, of our net sales, with video game
hardware and peripherals accounting for 19.1% of net sales. International
operations accounted for approximately $113,723,000 or 29.4% of our net sales
for fiscal 2000.

         Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increased by $32,674,000, or 15.2%, to
$247,796,000 for fiscal 2000 from $215,122,000 for fiscal 1999. The increase was
primarily a result of the expanded scope of our operations and was consistent
with revenue growth. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to
64.0% for fiscal 2000 from 70.3% for fiscal 1999. This decrease was primarily
due to an increase on our higher margin publishing activities.


                                      -13-




         Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses increased by
$12,746,000, or 42.3%, to $42,854,000 for fiscal 2000 from $30,108,000 for
fiscal 1999. Selling and marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales
increased to 11.1% for fiscal 2000 from 9.8% for fiscal 1999. The increases were
due to increased marketing costs associated with establishing our publishing
programs and brand names.


         General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses
increased by $11,173,000 or 44.3%, to $36,409,000 for fiscal 2000 from
$25,236,000 for fiscal 1999. General and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales increased to 9.4% for fiscal 2000 from 8.2% for fiscal 1999. The
increases were due to additional salaries, rent, insurance premiums and
professional fees in connection with our expanded operations.

         Research and Development. Research and development costs increased by
$405,000, or 7.7%, to $5,668,000 for fiscal 2000 from $5,263,000 for fiscal
1999. Research and development costs as a percentage of sales decreased to 1.5%
for fiscal 2000 from 1.7% for fiscal 1999.

         Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense
increased by $6,983,000, or 247.4%, to $9,805,000 for fiscal 2000 from
$2,822,000 for fiscal 1999. Depreciation and amortization expense as a
percentage of net sales increased to 2.5% for fiscal 2000 from 0.9% for fiscal
1999. The increases were attributable to the amortization of goodwill associated
with the acquisition of Toga Holdings, Gathering of Developers and DMA Design
Limited. We sold Toga Holdings in October 2000.

         Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by $3,159,000, or 108.6%,
to $6,069,000 for fiscal 2000 from $2,910,000 for fiscal 1999. The increase was
primarily a result of increased borrowings and the amortized portion of the
expenses relating to a subordinated loan.

         Income Taxes. Income taxes increased by $5,172,000 or 63.9% as a result
of a tax provision of $13,266,000 for fiscal 2000 as compared to a tax provision
of $8,094,000 for fiscal 1999.

         Net Income. As a result of the foregoing, we achieved net income of
$24,963,000 for fiscal 2000, as compared to net income of $16,332,000 for fiscal
1999. The results for fiscal 2000 included a charge of $1,103,000 consisting
primarily of professional fees related to an abandoned offering, a loss of
$286,000 relating to the sale of Toga Holdings and a gain of $1,976,000 relating
to the sale of DVDWave.

Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 1999 and 1998

         Net Sales. Net sales increased by $111,880,000, or 57.7%, to
$305,932,000 for fiscal 1999 from $194,052,000 for fiscal 1998. The increase
reflects the success of our global publishing and distribution businesses, with
approximately 84% of the increase attributable to internal growth. Publishing
revenues increased by $69,150,000, or 75.8%, to $160,335,000 for fiscal 1999
from $91,185,000 for fiscal 1998. Distribution revenues increased by
$42,731,000, or 41.5%, to $145,597,000 for fiscal 1999 from $102,866,000 for
fiscal 1998.

         For fiscal 1999, publishing and distribution activities accounted for
approximately 52.4% and 47.6%, respectively, of our net sales. For this year,
software products designed for PC and video game console platforms accounted for
approximately 24.8% and 55.8%, respectively, of our net sales, with video game
hardware and peripherals accounting for 19.4% of net sales. International
operations accounted for approximately $105,913,000 or 34.6% of our net sales
for fiscal 1999.



                                      -14-



         Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increased by $67,566,000, or 45.8%, to
$215,122,000 for fiscal 1999 from $147,556,000 for fiscal 1998. The increase was
primarily a result of the expanded scope of our operations and was consistent
with revenue growth. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased to
70.3% for fiscal 1999 from 76.0% for fiscal 1998. This decrease was primarily
due to increased publishing activities which provide higher margins than
distribution activities.

         Selling and Marketing. Selling and marketing expenses increased by
$11,422,000, or 61.1%, to $30,108,000 for fiscal 1999 from $18,686,000 for
fiscal 1998. Selling and marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales
increased to 9.8% for fiscal 1999 from 9.6% for fiscal 1998. The increases were
due to increased marketing and promotion efforts undertaken to broaden product
distribution and to assist retailers in positioning our products for sale to
consumers, including television advertising.

         General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses
increased by $11,653,000 or 85.8%, to $25,236,000 for fiscal 1999 from
$13,583,000 for fiscal 1998. General and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales increased to 8.2% for fiscal 1999 from 7.0% for fiscal 1998. The
increases were due to additional salaries, rent, insurance premiums and
professional fees in connection with our expanded operations.

         Research and Development. Research and development costs increased by
$3,561,000, or 209.1%, to $5,263,000 for fiscal 1999 from $1,702,000 for fiscal
1998. Research and development costs as a percentage of sales increased to 1.7%
for fiscal 1999 from 0.9% for fiscal 1998. This increase was primarily
attributable to the acquisition of DMA Design Limited.

         Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense
increased by $987,000, or 53.8%, to $2,822,000 for fiscal 1999 from $1,835,000
for fiscal 1998. This increase was primarily attributable to the amortization of
goodwill associated with acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization expense as
a percentage of net sales remained constant.

         Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by $770,000, or 20.9%, to
$2,910,000 for fiscal 1999 from $3,680,000 for fiscal 1998. The decrease
resulted primarily from lower interest rates on bank borrowings.

         Income Taxes. Income taxes increased by $8,428,000 as a result of a tax
provision of $8,094,000 for fiscal 1999, as compared to a tax benefit of
$334,000 for fiscal 1998. The increase was due to increased pre-tax income in
fiscal 1999 and the full utilization of prior net operating loss carryforwards
in fiscal 1998.

         Net Income. As a result of the foregoing, we achieved net income of
$16,332,000 for fiscal 1999, as compared to a net income of $7,181,000 for
fiscal 1998.

Quarterly Operating Results; Seasonality

         We experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result
of the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles
developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development
and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or
enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the
timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns;
changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the accuracy of
retailers' forecasts of consumer demand; the size and timing of acquisitions;
the timing of orders from major customers; and order cancellations and delays in
product shipment. Sales of our titles are also seasonal, with peak shipments
typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal
quarters) as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season.
Accordingly, quarterly comparisons of operating results are not necessarily
indicative of future operating results.



                                      -15-



         The following table sets forth our quarterly results for the
immediately preceding eight quarters (amounts in thousands, except per share
data):




Liquidity and Capital Resources

         Our primary capital requirements have been and will continue to be to
fund developing, publishing and distributing our software products. We have
historically financed our operations through cash flow from operations, the
issuance of debt and equity securities and bank borrowings. At October 31, 2000,
we had working capital of $62,885,000 as compared to working capital of
$41,439,000 at October 31, 1999.

         Net cash used in operating activities for fiscal 2000 was $55,259,000
as compared to $16,748,000 for fiscal 1999 and $8,022,000 for fiscal 1998. The
significant increase was primarily attributable to increased levels of
receivables, inventories and advances to developers, reflecting substantial
growth in our operations. Because we have invested heavily during recent years
to position our company as a top-tier software publisher, we have experienced
negative cash flows from operations. Looking forward, we are focusing our
principal efforts on generating positive cash flow, and we expect to achieve
positive cash flow from operations for the fiscal quarter ending January 31,
2001.

         Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2000 was $12,906,000
as compared to $21,540,000 for fiscal 1999 and $727,000 for fiscal 1998. The
increase was primarily the result of cash paid for investments and acquisitions.

         Net cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2000 was
$71,564,000 as compared to $46,780,000 for fiscal l999 and $9,017,000 for fiscal
1998. The increase was primarily the result of increased borrowings under our
line of credit, the proceeds from private placements of common stock in April
and July 2000 aggregating $21,285,000 and a subordinated loan financing in July
2000 in the amount of $15,000,000. At October 31, 2000, we had cash and cash
equivalents of $5,245,000.

         In December 1999, we entered into a credit agreement, as amended, with
a group of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as agent, which currently
provides for borrowings of up to $90,000,000 (decreasing to $75,000,000 in March
2001). Thereafter, we may increase the credit line to up to $85,000,000 subject
to certain conditions. Generally, advances under the line of credit are based on
a borrowing formula equal to the lesser of (1) the borrowing limit or (2) 80% of
eligible accounts receivable, plus 50% of eligible inventory. Interest accrues
on such advances at the bank's prime rate plus 0.5%, or at LIBOR plus 2.5%.
Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by our accounts
receivable, inventory, equipment, general intangibles, securities and other
personal property, including the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries. In
addition to certain financial covenants, the loan agreement limits or prohibits
us from declaring or paying cash dividends, merging or consolidating with
another corporation, selling assets (other than in the ordinary course of
business), creating liens and incurring additional indebtedness. The line of
credit expires on December 7, 2002. As of December 31, 2000, $82,453,000 was
outstanding under the line of credit.

         In December 1999, our United Kingdom subsidiary entered into a line of
credit agreement with Barclay's Bank. The credit line provides for borrowings of
up to $25,000,000. Advances under the credit line bear interest annually at the
rate of 1.4% over the bank's base rate, payable quarterly, and are



                                      -16-



guaranteed by us. The credit line is repayable on demand and is subject to
review prior to January 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2000, approximately
$15,312,000 was outstanding under the credit line. In January 2001, our United
Kingdom subsidiary entered into a credit facility agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank
plc under which Lloyds agreed to make available borrowings of up to $25,000,000.
Advances under the credit facility bear interest at the rate of 1.25% per annum
over the bank's base rate, and are guaranteed by us. The credit facility expires
in December 2001 and is expected to replace the credit line with Barclay's Bank.

         In July 2000, we entered into a subordinated loan agreement with Finova
Mezzanine Capital Inc. under which we borrowed $15,000,000 evidenced by a
five-year promissory note bearing interest at the rate of 12.5% per annum,
payable monthly. In connection with the loan, we issued to Finova warrants to
purchase 451,747 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $11.875 per
share.

         Our accounts receivable, less an allowance for doubtful accounts and
returns, at October 31, 2000 were $134,877,000. Of such receivables,
approximately $13,622,000 or 10.1% was due from Electronic Boutique. Most of our
receivables are covered by insurance and generally have been collected in the
ordinary course of business. Our sales are typically made on credit, with terms
that vary depending upon the customer and the demand for the particular title
being sold. We do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. As
a result, we are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that any of
our receivables represent sales to a limited number of retailers or are
concentrated in foreign markets. If we are unable to collect our accounts
receivable as they become due and such accounts are not covered by insurance,
our liquidity and working capital position would be adversely affected.

         We expect to incur costs and expenses of approximately $2 million
during fiscal 2001 in connection with software and hardware upgrades to our
accounting systems. We also expect to finance approximately $2.0 million to
purchase new warehouse and office facilities for Jack of All Games in New York.
Other than the foregoing, we have no material commitments for capital
expenditures.

International Operations

         Sales in international markets, principally in the United Kingdom and
other countries in Europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our
revenues. For the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, sales in
international markets accounted for approximately 29.4%, 34.6% and 21.6%,
respectively, of our revenues. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign
trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political,
regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact
on our operating results.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

         We are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business,
primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact
on our operating results. At October 31, 2000, we had $84,605,000 in outstanding
variable rate indebtedness. A hypothetical 1% increase in the interest rate of
our variable rate debt would increase annual interest expense by approximately
$846,000 as of October 31, 2000.

         We transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risk
resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Accounts
relating to foreign operations are translated into United States dollars using
prevailing exchange rates at the relevant fiscal quarter or year end.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders'
equity. For the year ended October 31, 2000, our foreign currency translation
adjustment loss was $9,014,000. A hypothetical 10% change in applicable currency
exchange rates at October 31, 2000 would result in a material translation
adjustment. We



                                      -17-



purchase currency forward contracts to a limited extent to seek to minimize our
exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

         In addition, we may be exposed to risk of loss associated with
fluctuations in the value of our investments. Our investments are stated at fair
value, with net unrealized appreciation and loss included as a separate
component of stockholders' equity. At October 31, 2000, our investments had an
aggregate fair market value of $31,413,000 and included an unrealized loss of
$4,567,000.

Item 8. Financial Statements.

         The financial statements appear in a separate section of this report
following Part III.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

         None.



                                      -18-



                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers.

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the section of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held in 2001, entitled "Election of Directors" to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the
fiscal year covered by this Report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the section of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held in 2001, entitled "Executive Compensation" to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Report.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the section of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for it Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held in 2001, entitled "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this
Report.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
the section of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
of Stockholders to be held in 2001, entitled "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions" to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Report.



                                      -19-



Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

         (a) Exhibits

 3.1     Form of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.+

 3.2     Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation.+

 3.3     By-Laws of the Company.+

 10.1    1997 Stock Option Plan of the Company.+

 10.2    Credit Agreement, dated December 7, 1999, by and among the Company,
         certain of its subsidiaries, certain lenders and Bank of America, N.A.,
         as Agent.++

 21.1    Subsidiaries of the Company.

 23.1    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

 27.1    Financial Data Schedule (SEC use only).

- ---------------------------

+        Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit contained in the
         Company's Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (File no. 333-6414).

++       Incorporated by reference to the applicable exhibit contained in the
         Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31,
         1999.

         (b) Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule II-Valuation and Qualifying
             Accounts.

         (c) Reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended October 31,
             2000: Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2, 2000
             relating to the disposition of Toga Holdings, Inc.


                                      -20-



                        Report of Independent Accountants

To the Stockholders of
Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries:

         In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash
flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and it subsidiaries at October 31, 2000 and
1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended October 31, 2000 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in
our opinion, the accompanying financial statement schedule presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

December 13, 2000


                                      -21-






TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of October 31, 2000 and 1999

(In thousands, except share data)







       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.
         Certain amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes


                                      -22-





TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
For the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

(In thousands, except per share data)




* Net income includes acquired S corporation net income of $1,233 for the years
ended 1998.

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.
        Certain amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes


                                      -23-





TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

(In thousands, except share information)


The cashflow activities for the year ended October 31, 2000 are net of the Pixel
acquisition and disposal. (See Footnote 4)

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements.
         Certain amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes



                                      -24-






TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Stockholders' Equity
For the years ended October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000

(In thousands)











  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated condensed
                             financial statements.
         Certain amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes



                                      -25-


1.       Description of the Business

         Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. ("Take-Two" or the "Company") was
         incorporated in the State of Delaware on September 30, 1993. The
         Company develops, publishes, and distributes interactive software games
         designed for PCs and video game console platforms.

2.       Significant Accounting Policies

         Basis of Presentation

         The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements
         of Take-Two and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany
         balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

         In the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000, the financial statements
         were reformatted to round to the thousandth place. All prior periods
         have been conformed to the current presentation. Minor rounding
         differences may result due to this change in presentation.

         Risks and Uncertainties

         Substantially all of the Company's net sales are attributable to
         publishing and distribution revenues. The publishing and distribution
         aspects of the Company's business are subject to increasing
         competition, rapid technological change and evolving consumer
         preferences, which result in shorter product lifecycles. The Company's
         continued success depends upon its ability to acquire, develop and
         market software products, which often requires substantial financing.
         Additionally, the financing for software products acquired or licensed
         must be on terms acceptable to the Company. If sales from newly
         acquired and developed software products fail to materialize, the
         Company's business, operating results and financial condition could be
         adversely affected in the near term.

         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
         accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
         and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
         liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
         the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
         revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. The most
         significant estimates and assumptions relate to the recoverability of
         prepaid royalties, capitalized software development costs and other
         intangibles, recoverability of investments, valuation of inventories,
         income taxes, allowances for returns and doubtful accounts. Actual
         amounts could differ from those estimates.

         Concentration of Credit Risk

         A significant portion of the Company's cash balances is maintained with
         several major financial institutions with satisfactory standing and
         while attempting to limit credit exposure with any single institution,
         there are times that balances will exceed insurable amounts.

         If the financial condition and operations of the Company's distributors
         or retailers deteriorate, the risk of collection could increase
         substantially. As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, the receivable balances
         from the largest customer amounted to approximately 10.1% and 14.4% of
         the Company's net balance, respectively. The Company maintains
         insurance, to the extent available, on the receivable balance. For the
         years ended October 2000, 1999, and 1998, the Company's five (5)
         largest customers accounted for 20.0%, 24.5%, and 22.4% of net sales,
         respectively. Except for largest customer noted above, all receivable
         balances from the remaining customers were less than 10%.


                                      -26-





         Revenue Recognition

         Distribution revenue is derived from the sale of third-party
         interactive software games and hardware and is recognized when the
         title and risk of loss to products are transferred to the customers.
         Distribution revenue amounted to $184,983,000, $145,597,000, and
         $102,866,000 for 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. Publishing revenue
         is derived from the sale of internally developed interactive software
         games or from the sale of product licensed from a third party developer
         and is recognized when the title and risk of loss to products are
         transferred to the customers. Publishing revenue amounted to
         $202,023,000, $160,335,000, and $91,186,000 in 2000, 1999, and 1998,
         respectively.

         The Company's distribution arrangements with customers generally do not
         give them the right to return products, however, the Company generally
         accepts product returns for stock balancing or defective products. In
         addition, the Company will also negotiate accommodations to customers,
         including price discounts, credits and product returns, when demand for
         specific products fall below expectations. The Company's publishing
         arrangements require the Company to accept product returns. The Company
         establishes a reserve for future returns at the time of product sales,
         based primarily on these return policies, markdown allowances, and
         historical return rates, and as such, the Company recognizes revenues
         net of product returns. Return and allowances for the years ended
         October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $40,162,000, $25,147,000 and
         $13,672,000.

         Advertising

         The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. The Company shares
         portions of certain customers' advertising expenses through co-op
         advertising arrangements. Advertising expense for the years ended
         October 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 amounted to $16,769,000, $11,986,000,
         and $6,670,000, respectively.

         Cash and Cash Equivalents

         The Company considers all highly liquid instruments purchased with
         original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

         Inventory

         Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market. The
         Company periodically evaluates the carrying value of its inventories
         and makes adjustments as necessary.

         Prepaid Royalties

         Prepaid royalties represent prepayments made to independent software
         developers under development agreements. Prepaid royalties are
         amortized at the contractual royalty rate as cost of sales based on
         actual net product sales. Management evaluates the future realization
         of prepaid royalties, and charges to cost of sales any amount deemed
         unlikely to be realized based upon the contractual royalty rate and
         product sales. Prepaid royalties are classified as current and
         non-current assets based upon estimated net product sales within the
         next year. Prepaid royalties were written down $501,000, $1,308,000,
         and $884,000 for the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998,
         respectively, to estimated net realizable value. Amortization of
         prepaid royalties amounted to $18,365,000, $12,144,000, and $9,094,000
         during fiscal years 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

         Fixed Assets

         Office equipment, furniture and fixtures and automobiles are
         depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated lives
         ranging from five to seven years. Computer equipment and software are
         depreciated using the straight-line method over three years. Leasehold
         improvements are amortized over the lesser of the term of the related
         lease or estimated useful lives. Accumulated amortization includes the
         amortization of assets recorded under capital leases. The cost of
         additions and betterments are capitalized, and repairs and


                                      -27-




         maintenance costs are charged to operations in the periods incurred.
         When depreciable assets are retired or sold, the cost and related
         allowances for depreciation are removed from the accounts and the gain
         or loss is recognized. The carrying values of these assets are recorded
         at historical cost. The cost of additions and betterments greater than
         $1,000 is capitalized.

         Capitalized Software Development Costs (Including Film Production
         Costs)

         Costs associated with research and development are expensed as
         incurred. Software development costs incurred subsequent to
         establishing technological feasibility are capitalized. Amortization
         commences upon the general release of a game and is recognized as a
         component of cost of sales by the ratio that current gross revenues for
         a product bears to the total of current and anticipated future gross
         revenues for that product. Capitalized software costs are compared, by
         game title, to estimated net realizable value of the product and
         capitalized amounts in excess of estimated net realizable value, if
         any, are immediately written off. No capitalized software costs were
         written down for the year ended October 31, 2000. Capitalized software
         costs were written down by $698,000, and $1,412,000 for the years ended
         October 31, 1999, and 1998, respectively, to estimated net realizable
         value. Amortization of capitalized software costs amounted to
         $1,451,000, $1,136,000, and $1,767,000 during 2000, 1999, and 1998,
         respectively.

         Net Income per Share

         Net income per share has been computed in accordance with Statement of
         Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" which
         requires the presentation of basic earnings per share ("EPS"), which
         excludes common stock equivalents from its computation and requires the
         presentation of diluted EPS which gives effect to all dilutive
         potential common shares that were outstanding during the period. The
         computation excludes the number of common shares issuable upon the
         exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the conversion of
         preferred stock if such inclusion would be anti-dilutive.

         Comprehensive Income (Loss)

         The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
         130, Reporting Comprehensive Income ("SFAS No. 130"). Comprehensive
         income (loss) represents the change in net assets of a business
         enterprise during a period from transactions and other events and
         circumstances from non-owner sources. Comprehensive income (loss) of
         the Company includes net income adjusted for the change in foreign
         currency translation adjustments and the change in net unrealized gain
         (loss) from investments. The disclosures required by SFAS No. 130 have
         been included in the Statements of Stockholders' Equity.

         Intangible Assets

         Intangible assets consist of trademarks and the remaining excess
         purchase price paid over identified intangible and tangible net assets
         of acquired companies. Intangible assets are amortized under the
         straight-line method over the period of expected benefit of seven years
         for the acquisition of development studios and ten years for the
         acquisition of distribution operations. The Company assesses the
         recoverability of its intangible assets by determining whether the
         carrying value can be recovered through estimated future cash flows
         over its remaining life. If estimated future cash flows indicate that
         the unamortized balance will not be recovered, an adjustment will be
         made to reduce the carrying value to an amount consistent with
         estimated future cash flows discounted at the Company's incremental
         borrowing rate. Cash flow estimates are based on trends of historical
         performance and management's estimate of future performance, giving
         consideration to existing and anticipated competitive and economic
         conditions.

         Income Taxes

         The Company recognizes deferred taxes under the asset and liability
         method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability
         method, deferred income taxes are recognized for differences between
         the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at
         currently enacted statutory tax rates for the years in



                                      -28-



         which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred
         taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period
         that includes the enactment date. In addition, valuation allowances are
         established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts
         expected to be realized.

         Foreign Currency Translation

         The functional currency for the Company's foreign operations is the
         applicable local currency. Accounts of foreign operations are
         translated into U.S. dollars using quarter or year-end exchange rates
         for assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and average
         prevailing exchange rates for the period for revenue and expense
         accounts. Adjustments resulting from translation are included as a
         separate component of stockholders' equity.

         Fair Value of Financial Instruments

         The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including
         cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and
         accrued liabilities, approximate fair value because of their short
         maturities. The carrying amount of prepaid royalties and investments
         approximate fair value based upon the recoverability of these assets.
         The carrying amount of the Company's line of credit, notes payable and
         capital lease obligation approximates the fair value of such
         instruments based upon management's best estimate of interest rates
         that would be available to the Company for similar debt obligations at
         October 31, 2000.

         Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

         In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
         Staff Accounting Bulletin 101 ("SAB 101"), "Revenue Recognition". SAB
         101 summarizes certain of the staff's views in applying generally
         accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial
         statements. The provisions of this pronouncement are effective for the
         fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended October 31, 2001, but must be
         retroactively applied to the beginning of the fiscal year. The Company
         believes the adoption of SAB 101 will not have a material impact on the
         Company's results of operations.

3.       Business Acquisitions

         The Company acquired a number of companies that develop, publish, and
         distribute interactive software games during the three-year period
         ended October 31, 2000. The aggregate purchase price, including cash
         and stock payments, was $61.0 million, $9.7 million, and $13.2 million
         in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. The aggregate purchase price
         excludes the value of stock issued for pooled companies.

         In 1999 and 1998, 1,033,000 and 2,750,000 shares of the Company's
         common stock were issued for acquisitions accounted for as poolings of
         interests, respectively.

         The acquisitions described below have been accounted for as purchase
         transactions in accordance with APB No. 16 and, accordingly, the
         results of operations and financial position of the acquired businesses
         are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from
         the date of acquisition.

         In 2000, the Company paid $4.5 million in cash, issued 4,180,000 shares
         of its common stock (valued at $54.8 million), and incurred direct
         transaction costs of approximately $399,000 for acquisitions accounted
         for as purchases. These acquisitions included Toga Holdings, BV
         ("Toga") which owns Pixel Broadband Studios, Ltd. ("Pixel"), the
         remaining 80.1% of Gathering of Developers, Ltd ("Gathering"), and
         PopTop Software, Inc. ("PopTop"). For Gathering, the Company issued
         1,060,000 shares of its Common Stock and assumed liabilities resulting
         in excess purchase price over the net tangible assets of approximately
         $39 million. In the acquisition of Toga, the Company paid $4.5 million
         in cash, issued 2,561,000 shares of its Common Stock



                                      -29-


         (valued at $38.6 million) and issued a warrant valued at $1.75 million.
         Toga was sold in October 2000 to Gameplay.com PLC ("Gameplay"). (See
         Footnote 4).

         In 1999, the Company paid $1.2 million in cash, issued 638,000 shares
         of its common stock (valued at $6.1 million), and incurred direct
         transaction costs of approximately $390,000 for all acquisitions
         accounted for as purchases. These acquisitions include LDA Distribution
         Limited ("LDA"), Joytech Europe Limited ("Joytech"), DVDWave.com,
         Funsoft Nordic A.S. ("Funsoft"), Triad Distributors, Inc. ("Triad"),
         Global Star Software Ltd. ("Global"), DMA Design Holdings Limited, DMA
         Design Limited ("DMA") and CD Verte, S.p.A. ("CD Verte"). In addition,
         for CD Verte, the Company paid $800,000 on December 1, 1999 and will
         pay an additional $1.2 million, subject to downward adjustment based on
         net income of the acquired entity, over a three-year period. The most
         significant assumption of liabilities relate to the acquisition of DMA
         where the Company assumed liabilities of $12.3 million.

         In 1998, the Company paid $1.5 million in cash, issued 540,000 shares
         of its common stock (valued at $1.9 million), issued 1,850,000 shares
         of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock"
         valued at $9.5 million) and granted 76,000 non-plan stock options
         (valued at $250,000) for acquisitions accounted for as purchases. The
         Preferred Stock was converted into Common Stock in August 1998 on a
         one-for-one basis. These acquisitions include Alliance Inventory
         Management ("AIM"), DirectSoft Australia Pty. Ltd. ("DirectSoft") and
         substantially all of the assets of BMG Interactive Group ("BMG").

         The unaudited pro forma data below for the years ended October 31, 2000
         and 1999 is presented as if these purchase acquisitions had been made
         as of November 1, 1998. The unaudited pro forma financial information
         is based on management's estimates and assumptions and does not purport
         to represent the results that actually would have occurred if the
         acquisitions had, in fact, been completed on the dates assumed, or
         which may result in the future. The unaudited pro forma financial
         information includes purchase acquisitions that are significant to the
         Company's operations.




(1)      Includes AIM, BMG, DirectSoft, JAG, Talonsoft, LDA/Joytech, and
         Triad/Global.



                                      -30-



4.       Disposition of Assets

         In February 2000, the Company sold all its interests in Falcon
         Ventures Corporation d/b/a DVDWave.com to eUniverse, Inc. ("eUniverse")
         in exchange for 310,000 shares of eUniverse's common stock. The Company
         recognized a gain of $1,976,000 in connection with this transaction.

         In June 2000, the Company sold its 19.9% equity interest in Bungie
         Software ("Bungie") to Microsoft Corporation for approximately $5
         million. Separately, the Company sold its Halo publishing and
         distribution rights to Bungie for $4,000,000 and acquired a royalty
         free license to Bungie's Halo technology for two products. In addition,
         the Company was granted all of Bungie's right, title and interest to
         the Myth franchise and the PC and Playstation(R) 2 game, Oni.

         In October 2000, the Company sold all of its shares of Toga, the parent
         company of Pixel, to Gameplay. The Company received 14,436,000 shares
         of Gameplay's common stock and warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares of
         Gameplay stock after exchanging shares of Gameplay stock (valued at
         $1.75 million) for a warrant previously issued to the founder of Pixel,
         and shares of Gameplay stock (valued at $1.25 million) for shares of
         the Company's common stock. The Company recorded a value for the
         Gameplay stock held by it of approximately $28 million. In connection
         with the transaction, the Company granted to Gameplay certain on-line
         distribution rights and entered into a joint exploitation agreement
         with Gameplay under which the Company acquired a software development
         business of a subsidiary of Gameplay. The value of the acquired
         business of approximately $20 million, which is included in
         intangibles, has been allocated on a preliminary basis. The Company
         recognized a loss of $286,000 in connection with this transaction. The
         shares held by the Company represent approximately 18% of Gameplay's
         then outstanding shares.

5.       Investments

         Investments are comprised of equity securities and are classified as
         current and non-current assets. The investments are accounted for under
         the average cost method as "available-for-sale" in accordance with
         Statement of Financial Standards No. 115 "Accounting for Certain
         Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". The investments are stated
         at fair value, with unrealized appreciation reported as a separate
         component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in
         stockholders' equity.

         As of October 31, 2000, investments consist of (in thousands):

                                       Current        Non Current
                                     ------------     -----------
         Average cost                 $  2,896          $  33,084
         Unrealized gains (losses)          30             (4,597)
                                      ---------         ----------
         Fair value                   $  2,926          $  28,487
                                      =========         ==========



                                      -31-


         For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2000, the gross proceeds from the
         sale of investments were $639,000. The gross realized losses from these
         sales totaled $180,000. The loss on sale of securities is based on the
         average cost method.

6.       Inventories

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, inventories consist of (in thousands):

                                      2000               1999
                                   ----------         -----------
         Parts and supplies          $    496         $      269
         Finished products             44,426             41,031
                                   -----------        -----------
                                   $   44,922         $   41,300
                                   ===========        ===========


7.       Fixed Assets

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, fixed assets consist of (in
         thousands):

                                                    2000              1999
                                               -------------    ---------------
         Computer equipment                    $      3,737     $        2,398
         Office equipment                               816              1,071
         Computer software                              537                  8
         Furniture and fixtures                       1,710              1,326
         Automobiles                                    305                228
         Leasehold improvements                       1,086                799
         Capital leases                                 348                233
                                               -------------    ---------------
                                                      8,539              6,063
         Less: accumulated depreciation and
           amortization                             (3,279)            (1,943)
                                               -------------    ---------------
                                               $      5,260     $        4,120
                                               =============    ===============

         Depreciation expense for the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999, and
         1998 amounted to $1,761,000, $1,160,000, and $788,000, respectively.

 8.      Lines of Credit






                                      -32-


         In December 1999, the Company entered into a credit agreement with a
         group of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as agent, which provides
         for borrowings of up to $75,000,000. The Company may increase the
         credit line up to $85,000,000 subject to certain conditions. Interest
         accrues on such advances at the bank's prime rate plus 0.5% or at LIBOR
         plus 2.5%. Borrowings under the line of credit are collaterized by all
         of the Company's accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, general
         intangibles, securities and other personal property, including the
         capital stock of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The available
         credit under this facility was $2,974,000 at October 31, 2000. The line
         of credit expires on December 7, 2002. In November 2000, the Company
         amended the credit agreement, which increased the borrowings from
         $75,000,000 to $90,000,000 until February 28, 2001. After such date,
         the borrowings will be limited to $75,000,000.

         In December 1999, Take-Two Interactive Software Europe Limited entered
         into a line of credit agreement with Barclays' Bank. The line of credit
         provides for borrowings of up to approximately $25,000,000. Advances
         under the line of credit bear interest at the rate of 1.4% over
         the bank's base rate per annum, payable quarterly. Borrowings are
         collateralized by receivables of the Company's European subsidiaries,
         and are guaranteed by the Company. The available credit under this
         facility was $241,000 at October 31, 2000. The line of credit is
         repayable upon demand and is subject to review prior to January 31,
         2001.

         In 1999, the Company and its subsidiaries had lines of credit with
         various banks. These credit lines permitted borrowings at fluctuating
         interest rates determined by the banks. Where required, the Company
         guaranteed the repayment of these borrowings. Unused lines of credit by
         the Company and its subsidiaries at October 31, 1999 aggregated to
         $11,417,000. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding balances
         at October 31, 1999 was approximately 8.6%.

9.       Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities

         Accrued expenses and other current liabilities as of October 31, 2000
         and 1999 consist of (in thousands):




  10.    Loan Payable

         In July 2000, the Company entered into a subordinated loan agreement
         with Finova Mezzanine Capital Inc. ("Finova") in the principal amount
         of $15 million. The loan is payable in full in July 2005, and bears
         interest at the rate of 12.5% per annum, payable monthly. In connection
         with the loan, the Company issued to Finova a five year warrant to
         purchase approximately 452,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock
         exercisable at a price of $11.875 per share. Subject to the outstanding
         loan balance, the warrant entitles Finova to receive additional shares
         of the Company's Common Stock for three consecutive years commencing
         July 2003, and contains certain anti-dilution provisions. The Company
         has recorded the loan net of discount of approximately $2,927,000 to
         reflect an allocation of the proceeds to the estimated value of the
         warrant. The discount is being amortized using the



                                      -33-




         "interest method" over the term of the financing. At October 31, 2000,
         the amount of unamortized discount is approximately $2,732,000.

  11.    Commitments and Contingencies

         Capital Leases

         The Company leases equipment under capital lease agreements, which
         extend through fiscal year 2005. Future minimum lease payments under
         these capital leases, and the present value of such payments as of
         October 31, 2000 is as follows:




         Lease Commitments

         The Company leases 27 office and warehouse facilities. The corporate
         headquarters is under a noncancelable operating lease with related
         parties and expires in March 2004. Rent expense and certain utility
         expenses under this lease amounted to $419,000, $302,000, and $133,000
         for the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively. The
         other offices are under noncancelable operating leases expiring at
         various times from July 2001 to October 2011. In addition, the Company
         has leased certain equipment, furniture and auto leases under
         noncancelable operating leases, which expire through July 2005.

         Future minimum rentals required as of October 31, 2000 are as follows:




         Rent expense amounted to $2,303,000, $1,544,000, and $921,000 for the
         years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



                                      -34-



  12.    Employee Savings Plans

         The Company maintains a 401(k) profit sharing plan and trust (the
         "401(k) Plan"). The 401(k) Plan is offered to all eligible employees
         and participants may make voluntary contributions up to 15% of their
         salary. The Company does not match employee contributions.

  13.    Income Taxes

         The Company is subject to foreign withholding taxes in certain
         countries where it does business. The Company's net operating loss
         carryforwards will expire between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2019. Domestic
         and foreign pre-tax income was as follows:




          Income tax expense (benefit) is as follows:




         A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the
         effective income tax rate is as follows:




         The components of the net deferred tax asset as of October 31, 2000 and
         1999 consists of the following:


                                      -35-





         The Company believes that it is more likely than not that it will
         utilize the deferred tax asset in the future, and accordingly, the
         Company recorded an asset in the amount of $666,000, and $2,005,000 for
         the years ended October 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

         The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
         income tax purposes was approximately $10 million for the year ended
         October 31, 2000. It is the Company's intention to reinvest
         undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and thereby
         indefinitely postpone their remittance. Accordingly, no provision has
         been made for foreign withholding taxes or United States Income taxes
         which may become payable if undistributed earnings of foreign
         subsidiaries were paid as dividends to the Company.

  14.    Stockholders' Equity (See Also Footnotes 3 and 4)

         Private Placement

         In 2000, the Company sold 2,422,000 shares of the Company's Common
         Stock and received net proceeds of $21,285,000, net of commissions and
         offering expenses of $2,432,000.

         Public Offering

         In July 2000, the Company incurred a one-time charge of $1,103,000
         relating to an abandoned public offering of a subsidiary.

         In May 1999, the Company consummated a secondary public offering of
         3,005,000 shares of common stock, including 255,000 shares issued
         pursuant to an over-allotment option. The proceeds from the offering
         were $21,852,000, net of discounts and commissions and offering
         expenses of $2,187,000.

         Retirement of Common Stock

         In October 2000, the Board of Directors approved the exchange of 98,000
         shares of the Company's common stock (valued at $1,250,000) for an
         equivalent value of the Company's Gameplay stock to a shareholder.
         These shares were cancelled.

         Warrants

         In February 1999, warrants issued in connection with the Company's
         initial public offering were exercised. Each warrant entitled the
         registered holder to purchase, at a price of $5.50, one share of the
         Company's Common Stock at any time until March 15, 1999. As of March
         15, 1999, 41,000 warrants were exercised.

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, there are outstanding common stock
         purchase warrants for an aggregate of 829,000 and 662,000 shares of the
         Company's Common Stock, respectively, at prices ranging from $ .01 to
         $11.875 and expiring from 2003 to 2005.



                                      -36-



15.      Incentive Plans

         Stock Option Plans

         In January 1997, the stockholders of the Company approved the Company's
         1997 Stock Option Plan, as previously adopted by the Company's Board of
         Directors (the "1997 Plan"), pursuant to which officers, directors, key
         employees and consultants of the Company may receive incentive stock
         options ("ISO") to purchase up to an aggregate of 400,000 shares of the
         Company's Common Stock. The aggregate number of options to be granted
         under the Plan was 3,500,000. The number of options was subsequently
         increased to 5,000,000 in November 2000.

         The 1997 Plan is administered by the Board of Directors. Subject to the
         provisions of the 1997 Plan, the Board of Directors or any Committee
         appointed by the Board of Directors, has the authority to determine the
         individuals to whom the stock options are to be granted, the number of
         shares to be covered by each option, the option price, the type of
         option, the option period, restrictions, if any, on the exercise of the
         option, the terms for the payment of the option price and other terms
         and conditions.

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, the 1997 Plan had outstanding stock
         options for an aggregate of 1,973,000 and 2,665,000 shares of the
         Company's Common Stock, respectively, at prices ranging from $2.41 to
         $13.00 per share vesting at various times from 1997 to 2003 and
         expiring at various times from 2002 to 2005.

         Non-Plan Stock Options

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, there are outstanding non-plan stock
         options for an aggregate of 2,226,000 and 1,060,000 shares of the
         Company's Common Stock, respectively, at prices ranging from $2.00 to
         $13.00 per share vesting from 1997 to 2003 and expiring at various
         times from 2002 to 2005.

         For those options with exercise prices less than fair value at the
         measurement date, the difference is amortized over the vesting period.
         Compensation expense for the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999, and
         1998 was approximately $43,000, $29,000, and $121,000, respectively.

         The following table summarizes the activity in options under the plans
         inclusive of non-plan options:




                                      -37-


         At October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the number of options exercisable
         are 2,119,000, 1,346,000 and 1,019,000, respectively, and their related
         weighted average exercise prices are $8.36, $6.21 and $3.72,
         respectively.

         The following summarizes information about stock options outstanding
         and exercisable at October 31, 2000:



         The Company applies APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
         Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for its plans.
         The Company has adopted the disclosure-only provision of SFAS No. 123,
         "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"). Had
         compensation cost for the Company's stock option plan been determined
         based on the fair value at the grant date for awards in 2000, 1999 and
         1998 consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, the Company's net
         income and the net income per share would have been reduced to the
         pro-forma amounts indicated below (in thousands).



         The pro-forma disclosures shown are not representative of the effects
         on net income and the net income per share in future years.

         The fair value of the Company's stock options used to compute pro-forma
         net income and the net income per share disclosures is the estimated
         present value at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
         model. The following weighted average assumptions for 2000 were used to
         value grants: expected volatility of 96% for all grants; a risk-free
         interest rate of generally 5.5% to 6.7%; and an expected holding period
         of two to five years. For 1999 and 1998, respectively, the following
         weighted average assumptions were used to value grants; expected
         volatility of 60% for the grants with a holding period of three to four
         year and 65% for holding periods of five years or more and 55%; a
         risk-free interest rate of 4% to 6% and 5%; and an expected holding
         period of three to five years and four to five years, respectively.


                                      -38-


16.      Results By Quarter (Unaudited)




         (a) Included an after-tax loss of $695,000 ($.02 per diluted share) in
         the third quarter of fiscal 2000 for the one-time charge for abandoned
         offering described in Footnote 14.

17.      Geographic Areas

         In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments
         of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS No. 131"), which
         established standards for reporting information about operating
         segments in annual financial statements. It also establishes standards
         for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas
         and major customers (See Footnote 2). The Company provides software
         product and many other closely related services in the entertainment
         software industry. All of these services fall within one reportable
         segment as defined in SFAS No. 131.

         For the years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company's net
         sales in domestic markets accounted for approximately 70.6%, 65.4%, and
         78.4%, respectively, and net sales in international markets accounted
         for 29.4%, 34.6%, and 21.6%, respectively.

         As of October 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company's net fixed assets in
         domestic markets accounted for approximately $2,436,000 and $1,762,000,
         respectively, and net fixed assets in international markets accounted
         for $2,824,000 and $2,358,000, respectively.


                                      -39-



         Total non-current assets and net sales are shown below by major
geographic area:





         Net Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on product
         destination.

18.      Net Income per Share

         The computation for diluted number of shares excludes those unexercised
         stock options and warrants which are antidilutive. The number of such
         shares was 73,000, 470,000, and 50,000 for the years ended October 31,
         2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

         The following table provides a reconciliation of basic earnings per
         share to dilutive earnings per share for the years ended October 31,
         2000, 1999, and 1998. The extraordinary loss for the year ended October
         31, 1998, has no significant effect on the EPS calculation and
         therefore, is not shown separately.






                                      -40-






19.      Subsequent Events

         In November 2000, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital
         stock of VLM Entertainment Group, Inc. ("VLM"), a company engaged in
         the distribution of interactive software games. In connection with this
         transaction, the Company paid $2 million in cash and issued 875,000
         shares of the Company's Common Stock. In addition, VLM may receive an
         additional 100,000 shares based on future revenue performances.

         In December 2000, the Company acquired the exclusive publishing rights
         for the Duke Nukem PC and video games from Infograms, Inc. In
         connection with this transaction, the Company issued 557,103 shares of
         the Company's Common Stock and $2.3 million in cash.


                                      -41-




                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly signed this report on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 26th day of January 2001.

                               TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, INC.


                               By: /s/ Ryan A. Brant
                                   --------------------------------
                                   Ryan A. Brant,
                                   Chief Executive Officer

In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report was signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates
stated.






                                      -42-



                                   SCHEDULE II

                       Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc.
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                                 (In thousands)






(A)    Includes increases in allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts
       due to normal reserving terms and allowance accounts acquired in
       conjunction with acquisitions.

(B)    Includes actual write-offs of uncollectible accounts receivable or sales
       returns and recoveries of previously written off receivables.



                                      -43-


