
10-K
f74276e10-k.txt
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)

     [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED APRIL 27, 2001

                                       OR

     [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ____________ TO ____________ .

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-27130

                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



                              495 EAST JAVA DRIVE,
                          SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA 94089
          (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES, INCLUDING ZIP CODE)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (408) 822-6000

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                          COMMON STOCK (NO PAR VALUE)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by a check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, as of May 25, 2001, was $8,461,957,777 (based on the closing price
for shares of the Registrant's common stock as reported by the Nasdaq National
Market for the last trading day prior to that date). Shares of common stock held
by each executive officer, director, and holder of 5% or more of the outstanding
common stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be
affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a
conclusive determination for other purposes.

     On May 25, 2001, 329,003,024 shares of the Registrant's common stock, no
par value, were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The information called for by Part III is incorporated by reference from
the definitive Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of shareholders to be held
on October 18, 2001, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after April 27, 2001.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements. These statements may contain words such as
"expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," or other
words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to
certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statement. Factors that
could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to,
those discussed in the following sections entitled "Risk Factors" and
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations." The Company undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release
the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Given these
risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

     Network Appliance is the worldwide leader in network-attached data
management and storage solutions. Network Appliance(TM) hardware, software, and
service offerings are used to create, manage and scale seamless data fabrics,
moving information to users globally. Network Appliance systems offer our
customers faster access to, greater control over, and greater availability of
data, thereby increasing data value and user productivity and resulting in
significant competitive advantages. Network Appliance data management and
storage infrastructure products are the information foundation for leading
businesses, government agencies, and universities worldwide.

     Network Appliance was founded in 1992 by a group of computer scientists who
were seeking to simplify data access using different types of computer systems.
Network Appliance shipped its first system in 1984 and today is a multinational
corporation with over 2,000 employees in more than 70 countries.

     Network Appliance systems adhere to the appliance philosophy: do one thing,
do it simply, and do it well. This philosophy drives our entire company, from
product design and system operation through our support processes. Everything is
implemented as simply as possible and no simpler. Our drive for simplicity has
yielded dramatic results:

     - Lower total cost of ownership than our competitors since system
       administrators can manage greater amounts of information;

     - Business agility -- the ability to react quickly to changes via rapid
       deployment or reconfiguration; and

     - Improved information availability, because simplicity drives reliability.

     Network Appliance created the storage networking market. Our goal of
seamless, reliable access to information regardless of protocol, location, or
time has been achieved through a number of significant milestones. The shipment
of Network Appliance's first storage product (coined a filer) in 1994 allowed
UNIX(R) users on a network direct access to information bypassing sub-optimal
general purpose servers. The shipment of the world's first multiprotocol filer
in 1996 allowed UNIX, Windows(R) and Web users to access and share the exact
same information, natively. The shipment of the world's first caching appliance,
NetCache(R), in 1997 improved users experiences by placing copies of information
closer to them. Integration of these filer and caching systems via Network
Appliance's ContentDirector(TM) and ContentReporter(TM) software management
products have allowed our customers to design, deploy, scale, and manage global
Center-to-Edge(TM) data fabrics, providing users access to information anytime,
anywhere.

     Network Appliance's Center-to-Edge data fabrics provide the storage
infrastructure for leading software applications such as those offered by: IBM
Corp., Informix Software, Inc., Microsoft Corp., Oracle Corp., SAP AG, Siebel
Systems, Inc., and Sybase, Inc. Our products are also marketed to users of
technical applications such as those offered by Cadence Design Systems, Dassault
Systems, Landmark Graphics, Parametric Technology Corp., Rational Software
Corp., Schlumberger Technology Corp., Structural Dynamics Research Corp. (SDRC),
Synopsys Inc., and Unigraphics Solutions Inc. As companies become



increasingly global and users become increasingly remote simple, cost-effective
Center-to-Edge data fabric infrastructures will be required to satisfy the
information access needs of the future.

PRODUCTS

     Our products consist of filer storage and caching appliances, data
management and content delivery software, and support services.

     The demand for our network storage filers and caching appliances is driven
by the need to store and manage the rapid growth in sheer data volume, types of
data, and geographic dispersion.

  Filers

     Network Appliance storage appliances, or filers, are systems which provide
highly reliable data storage management. Our filers consolidate data from UNIX,
Windows NT(R), and Web computing environments, using industry standard NFS,
CIFS, and HTTP file sharing protocols, respectively, to simplify the management
and storage of information for a variety of business applications.

     Current products include:

     - NetApp(R) F840c, a large-scale clustered enterprise filer providing
       maximized data availability in mission-critical environments for large
       enterprises;

     - NetApp F840, a large-scale enterprise filer providing an ideal solution
       for enterprise consolidation;

     - NetApp F820c, a clustered enterprise filer providing maximized data
       availability in mission-critical environments for midrange enterprises;

     - NetApp F820, an enterprise filer for small- to medium-sized enterprises
       allowing for the consolidation of heterogeneous data for entry-level
       Internet service providers (ISPs), application service providers, storage
       service providers, and commercial, as well as scientific, applications;

     - NetApp F740, an entry-level enterprise filer providing department-level
       performance and productivity for applications such as software
       development, computer-aided design, simulation applications, and
       medium-sized ISPs; and

     - NetApp F85, a remote office/workgroup filer with multiplatform capability
       at an economical price. Ideal for remote offices/branch offices as well
       as small- to medium-sized workgroups and ISPs.

     In addition, during fiscal 2001, the F760 and F720 filers continued to ship
and have since been replaced by newer models.

     All filers are based on a PCI-bus architecture and come packaged in
rack-mountable enclosures that may be factory-installed in cabinets. NetApp
filers are based on either the Intel(R) Pentium(R) or Digital(R) Alpha(R)
processors and support either Fibre Channel arbitrated loop (FC-AL) or Small
Computer System Interface (SCSI) as storage interconnect options.

     All of our filers include the Data ONTAP(TM) operating system, using our
patented Write Anywhere File Layout (WAFL(TM)) file system and a base file
sharing protocol (either NFS, CIFS, or HTTP) for data access. In a multiprotocol
configuration, native multiprotocol functionality can be easily added through
licensing non-base protocols at an additional cost. Data ONTAP delivers
simultaneous file service to UNIX, Windows NT, and Web clients. Data ONTAP
allows our customers to virtualize their storage infrastructures. This enables
them to administer data logically according to applications, data types, and
organizational needs instead of physical topology. Data ONTAP also includes
Snapshot(TM) technology, which allows rapid access to previous versions of data
without requiring complete separate copies. This eliminates the need to recover
previous versions from tape archive. In addition, Data ONTAP provides support
for Fibre Channel and SCSI-attached tape options with industry-standard backup
software support from leading vendors such as Legato and Veritas.

     Our latest version of Data ONTAP, version 6.1, adds support for Windows
2000 in addition to continued support of UNIX, Windows, and Web environments.


  Caching

     NetCache appliances allow our customers to scale network infrastructure,
reduce bandwidth costs, ease network bottlenecks, and simplify data management
and content delivery. NetCache appliances deliver high-quality audio and video
streams, enabling a host of next-generation network services such as online
training, executive broadcasts, and large-scale video-on-demand and other
value-added services. Like our filers, all of our NetCache appliances include
the Data ONTAP operating system using our patented WAFL file system for rapid
data access. Our NetCache appliances simplify information flow by consolidating
support for all major streaming media formats, including Apple(R) QuickTime(TM),
Microsoft(R) Windows Media(TM) Server, RealNetworks(R) Streaming Server, as well
as industry-standard protocols such as HTTP, FTP, and NNTP. This multiprotocol
support on our NetCache appliances minimizes rack space and simplifies network
design, providing increased reliability while driving down cost.

     Our NetCache products further assist customers in growing network
infrastructure and managing mission-critical data by providing advanced security
features, including user authentication, URL filtering, and auditing. With our
WAFL file system, Data ONTAP software, and advanced caching algorithms, these
appliances provide enhanced response time and throughput over competitive
offerings.

     Our NetCache appliances effectively deliver content and information to
users at the edge of the network. Our content delivery software seamlessly
distributes and manages information and offers our customers the ability to
analyze content usage, performance, and infrastructure load across the network.

     Current products include:

     - NetCache C6100, targeting large data centers and carrier-class bandwidth
       requirements;

     - NetCache C3100, for remote data centers and large regional offices; and

     - NetCache C1100, designed for remote or branch offices.

     In addition, during fiscal 2001, we continued to ship NetCache C760 and
C720 appliances. We expect that the C760 and C720 products will be phased out as
we introduce new products.

  Data Management and Content Delivery Software

     In today's rapidly changing business environment, enterprises are demanding
cost-effective data and content management solutions to handle the explosive
growth of data in their networks. NetApp filers and NetCache appliances can
efficiently store and deliver all data and content between UNIX, Windows, and
Web servers. Our NetApp software offers a unique set of features to ensure
mission-critical availability and reduce the complexity of enterprise storage
management, while lowering the total cost of ownership. These software features
include:

     - Snapshot software makes daily online backups easy;

     - SnapMirror(TM) remote mirroring software permits automated file system
       replication between sites. SnapMirror leverages the Data ONTAP Snapshot
       technology and enables customers to quickly recover from site disasters,
       replicate critical data, and deploy centralized backup architectures;

     - SnapRestore(TM) software allows restoration of a file system version to
       an earlier state within seconds. SnapRestore is based on the Data ONTAP
       Snapshot technology and enables customers to greatly minimize recovery
       time in the event of a data corruption or loss;

     - Support for the NDMP protocol, in conjunction with tape SAN backup
       solutions based on both Fibre Channel and Gigabit Ethernet, enables
       customers to maximize their infrastructure investments and reduce the
       time required to do tape backups;

     - Clustered Failover software for filers ensures high data availability for
       business-critical environments;

     - SnapManager(TM) software for Microsoft Exchange allows customers to
       perform online backup and rapid data recovery in Microsoft Exchange
       environments;



     - ApplianceWatch(TM) software allows IT professionals to centrally manage,
       administer, and optimize our systems for superior performance;

     - FilerView(R) software, a Web-based administration tool, provides remote
       administration allowing IT administrators to use Web browsers to manage
       filers from remote locations on the network;

     - ContentDirector software provides secure distribution of content from
       storage appliances across global networks to multiple content delivery
       appliances. In addition, it fully automates distribution and
       synchronization of Internet content, including streaming media,
       applications, and graphics;

     - ContentReporter software integrates seamlessly with NetApp appliances to
       provide network administrators a comprehensive, simple, flexible and
       scalable method to gauge the effectiveness of their content delivery
       system. Network administrators can now gain visibility to file usage
       patterns, activity levels, and errors rates for both streaming and
       Web-based content. It provides the capability to proactively manage the
       content delivery infrastructure and plan for future growth; and

     - DataFabric(TM) Manager offers the ability to manage multiple filers or
       NetCache appliances from a single administrative console, reducing
       administrative complexity and total cost of ownership.

     Our configured filer and NetCache appliance prices range from $4,000 to
$850,000.

  Center-to-Edge

     Combined with our content delivery software which seamlessly distributes
and manages information flow across networks, our filers and NetCache appliances
allow our customers to build and manage state of the art content delivery
networks.

     Effective and reliable content distribution solutions require tight
integration between network devices and application software. By linking Netapp
filers, NetCache appliances, and ContentDirector software, NetApp provides the
tools necessary to fully automate distribution and synchronization of content,
including streaming media, applications, and graphics from the data center to
the network edge. ContentReporter software provides network administrators the
information they need on network usage and Web-site activity to most effectively
manage the content in their networks.

SALES AND MARKETING

     We market and distribute our products globally. In North America, we employ
a multichannel distribution strategy, which focuses on product sales to end
users through a direct sales force, as well as selected value-added resellers in
certain geographies. In Europe, we employ a mix of resellers and direct sales
channels to sell to end-users. In Asia, our products are primarily sold through
resellers, which are supported by our channel sales representatives and
technical support personnel. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our
net sales in fiscal 2001, 2000, or 1999. See additional discussion regarding
sales and marketing in "Note 8 -- Segment, Geographic, and Customer Information
under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."

BACKLOG

     We manufacture our products based on forecasts of our customers' demands.
Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. Products are
typically shipped within one to four weeks following receipt of an order. In
certain circumstances, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without
penalty. For these reasons, we do not believe "orders" constitute a firm
"backlog," and we believe orders are not a meaningful indicator of revenues or
material to an understanding of our business.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT

     Support Services. Our customer service and support organization provides
technical support, education and training. We believe that providing a high
level of customer service and technical support is critical to customer
satisfaction and our success. Warranty coverage provides customers with free
24x7-telephone


support for emergency situations for one year from the date of purchase along
with the same day shipment of replacement parts, and access to our self-service
online Web site, NetApp on the Web (NOW). In addition, our customers receive 90
days of software subscription -- online access to all entitled software updates.
Additional software support can be purchased through our Warranty Plus offering,
which includes:

     - Access to NOW and information subscription services;

     - AutoSupport, our "phone home" diagnostic capability;

     - Software subscription service;

     - Next-business-day parts delivery (disks and system hardware); and

     - 24x7 emergency telephone support and 24x7 Web case support for
       Non-Emergency situations.

     Additional service options available in-warranty or post-warranty include:

     - Non-Emergency telephone support;

     - Upgraded hardware services for disks;

     - Upgraded hardware services for system hardware;

     - Global Advisor, providing a customer with access to a team of advisors
       and tools that will monitor all service-based activity for its account;
       and

     - Global Advisor Plus, providing immediate phone access to our back-line
       engineers for non-emergency situations. This service allows incoming
       requests to be automatically upgraded to receive emergency support, thus
       immediately escalating the case to the highest-level resource available
       at the time the call is received.

     Professional Services. Our professional services organization offers a
comprehensive service designed to optimize performance and improve reliability
for enterprise-wide data management, enabling more cost-effective network and
information technology administration.

     Professional services programs include:

     - System availability management, providing proactive system administration
       involving global support center call-activity review, regular site
       inspections, and system availability reviews, plus upgraded services
       involving on-site and 24-hour emergency response from a professional
       services engineer;

     - Expert consulting services available on an hourly or daily rate basis to
       help customers develop customized solutions; and

     - Time-and-materials consulting services for short-term consulting.

     In general, we charge for service programs on an annual subscription basis.
On-site support is primarily provided by independent parties both in North
America and internationally.

MANUFACTURING

     Our manufacturing operations, primarily located in Sunnyvale, California,
include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test
engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance,
quality control, and final test. We rely on many suppliers for materials, as
well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies
and finished systems. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with
our suppliers, exchanging critical information and implementing joint
quality-training programs. We are currently expanding the use of subcontractors
for the production of major subassemblies. See "-- Risk Factors -- We rely on a
limited number of suppliers." This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital
investment and overhead expenditures and creates flexibility by allowing us to
rapidly expand. We were awarded the ISO 9001 certification on May 29, 1997, and
continue to be ISO certified.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     During Fiscal 2001, we began shipping a new series of enterprise-class
systems, the F800 family of filers, targeting business and technical
applications requiring high-performance, mission-critical availability and large
storage capacity. Additionally, we brought to market our F85 filer, expanding
our presence in remote office and workgroup environments with an economical
solution, while leveraging the proven availability and manageability of our
high-end offerings. We released two new versions of our Data ONTAP microkernel
operating system. Data ONTAP 6.0 brought support for instantaneous Snapshots and
enhanced data protection and recovery. The subsequent release of Data ONTAP 6.1
enabled native support of Windows 2000, giving full integration with Microsoft's
Active Directory, LDAP, and Kerberos. We continued to enhance our data
availability by providing third-party applications such as virus scanning and
extended our data protection solutions through Fibre Channel switch connectivity
for tape backup.

     We further expanded our content delivery solutions by delivering the
carrier-class NetCache C6100, the mid-range C3100, and the entry-level C1100 and
C1105 platforms. Operating with the new NetCache 5.0 software, these systems
offer live and video-on-demand capabilities through our product support of Apple
QuickTime, Microsoft Windows Media, and RealNetworks RealSystem(TM) G2 video
servers. Additionally, NetApp, in conjunction with Akamai Technologies, Inc.,
led an industry-wide effort to develop a protocol to enable value-added
services, such as ad insertion and content filtering.

     NetApp's ContentDirector and ContentReporter software, new in fiscal 2001,
provide policy-based content management, distribution, and reporting
functionality -- important additions to our Center-to-Edge data management and
delivery strategy. This suite of products enables users to centrally manage and
push content to geographically distributed locations, improving response time
and the overall end-user experience. These products also allow administrators to
analyze Web traffic and integrate with third-party billing applications.

     During fiscal 2000, we shipped two new storage management software
solutions -- SnapManager for Microsoft Exchange and ApplianceWatch software. New
caching product introductions in fiscal 2000 included NetCache software release
4.0 and NetCache 4.1 software, adding streaming media support for Apple
QuickTime, Microsoft Windows Media and RealNetworks Real System(TM) G2(TM)
users, delivering live broadcasting on the Internet.

     Our future growth depends on the successful development and introduction of
new hardware and software, however, we cannot assure you that these, or other
new products, will attain market acceptance. See "-- Risk Factor -- If we are
unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological
change, or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating
results could be materially adversely affected."

     Our total expenses for research and development for fiscal years 2001,
2000, and 1999 were $120.9 million, $61.6 million, and $30.0 million,
respectively. We anticipate that research and development expenses will increase
moderately in absolute dollars in fiscal 2002.

COMPETITION

     The storage and content delivery markets are intensely competitive and are
characterized by rapidly changing technology.

     In the storage market, our filer appliances and data management software
compete primarily against storage products and data management software from EMC
Corporation, Hitachi Data Systems, Compaq Computer Corporation, Sun
Microsystems, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, and IBM Corporation. We also
encounter less frequent competition from companies including MTI Corp., Procom
Technology, LSI Logic Corp., and Auspex Systems, Inc.

     In the content delivery market, our NetCache appliances and content
delivery software compete against caching appliance and content delivery
software vendors including Cisco Systems, Inc., CacheFlow, Inc., Inktomi Corp.,
Akamai Technologies, Inc., and Volera.



     This past year has seen an increasing number of new, privately held
companies attempting to enter our markets, some of which may become significant
competitors in the future.

     We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our market
include but are not limited to:

     - Response time and performance

     - Scalability

     - Data availability

     - Multiprotocol data sharing

     - Acquisition price and low overall total cost of ownership

     - Ease-of-use and deployment

     - Customer service and support

     Network Appliance believes that we have significant demonstrable advantages
over our competitors. Although we believe that our products currently compete
favorably with respect to these factors, we can not assure you that we can
maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors,
especially those with significantly greater financial, marketing, service,
support, technical, and other resources.

     See "-Risk Factors -- An increase in competition could materially adversely
affect our operating results" and "- If we are unable to develop and introduce
new products and respond to technological change, or if our new products do not
achieve market acceptance."

     We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our market
include product benefits such as response time, reliability, data availability,
scalability, ease-of-use, price, multiprotocol capabilities, and customer
service and support. Although we believe that our products currently compete
favorably with respect to these factors, we can not assure you that we can
maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors,
especially those with significantly greater financial, marketing, service,
support, technical, and other resources.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

     We currently rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade
secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and patents to
protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation,
and other written materials under trade secret, copyright, and patent laws,
which afford only limited protection. We have registered our "Network Appliance"
name and logo, "FAServer(R)," "FilerView," "NetApp," "NetCache," and
"SecureShare(R)" trademarks in the United States. Other United States trademarks
and some of the other United States registered trademarks are registered
internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of
additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality
agreements with our employees, resellers, and customers. We currently have
multiple United States and international patent applications pending and
multiple United States patents issued. See "-- Risk Factors -- If we are unable
to protect our intellectual property we may be subject to increased competition
that could materially adversely affect our operating results."

EMPLOYEES

     As of April 27, 2001, we had 2,403 employees. Of the total, 1,277 were in
sales and marketing, 566 in research and development, 253 in finance and
administration and 307 in operations. Our future performance depends in
significant part on our key technical and senior management personnel, none of
whom is bound by an employment agreement. We have never had a work stoppage and
consider relations with our employees to be good.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     Our executive officers and their ages as of May 25, 2001, are as follows:



     Daniel J. Warmenhoven has served as our President and Chief Executive
Officer and has been a member of the Board of Directors since October 1994.
Prior to joining us, Mr. Warmenhoven served in various capacities, including
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of
Network Equipment Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications company, from
November 1989 to January 1994. He presently serves on the Board of Directors of
Redback Networks, Inc., a communications products company. Mr. Warmenhoven holds
a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Princeton University.

     Thomas F. Mendoza was appointed to President in May 2000. Previously he
served as our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing from February
1999 and Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales from 1998. Prior to that he
served as Vice President, North American Sales. Prior to April 1994, Mr. Mendoza
served in various capacities including Vice President, Sales at Work Group
Technology, Vice President of North American Sales at Auspex Systems, Inc., and
Vice President of Western Operations at Stratus Computer Corp. Mr. Mendoza holds
a B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame.

     Jeffry R. Allen was appointed to Executive Vice President, Finance and
Operations in May 2000 and has served as our Chief Financial Officer, Executive
Vice President of Operations, and Secretary since December 1996. From October
1994 to December 1996, Mr. Allen served in various capacities, including Senior
Vice President of Operations and Vice President and Controller of Bay Networks,
Inc. Prior to October 1994, Mr. Allen held various positions at SynOptics, Inc.,
the latest of which was Vice President and Controller. Before joining SynOptics,
Inc., he held various positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, the latest of which
was Controller of the Information Networks Group. Mr. Allen holds a B.S. degree
from San Diego State University.

     David Hitz, a founder of Network Appliance, was appointed to Executive Vice
President, Engineering in May 2000 and has served as our Senior Vice President,
Engineering since February 2000. Prior to 1992, Mr. Hitz worked as a senior
engineer at Auspex Systems, Inc., and held various engineering positions at MIPS
Computer. Mr. Hitz holds a B.S. degree in computer science and electrical
engineering from Princeton University.

     James K. Lau, a founder of Network Appliance, was appointed to Executive
Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer in May 2000. Mr. Lau has served as our
Vice President, Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Engineering since
April 1992. Prior to that, he served as director of software development at
Auspex Systems, Inc. Prior to Auspex, he served as group manager of PC products
at Bridge Communications, now known as 3Com. Mr. Lau holds a B.S. degree in
computer science and mathematics from the University of California, Berkeley and
a master's degree in computer engineering from Stanford University.

RISK FACTORS

     The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less
significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following
risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition
could be materially adversely affected.



FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL COULD CAUSE OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS TO FLUCTUATE.

     Although we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods
prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2001, this growth may not be indicative of
our future operating results. As a result, we believe that period-to-period
comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and
should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Many of the
factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate
significantly in the future are beyond our control and include the following:

     - general economic trends;

     - global trends related to Information Technology spending;

     - demand for storage and content delivery products;

     - the level of competition in our target product markets;

     - the size, timing, and cancellation of significant orders;

     - product configuration and mix;

     - market acceptance of new products and product enhancements;

     - new product announcements or introductions by us or our competitors;

     - deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product
       enhancements;

     - changes in pricing by us or our competitors;

     - our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and
       enhancements in a timely manner;

     - supply constraints;

     - technological changes in our target product markets;

     - the levels of expenditure on research and development and expansion of
       our sales and marketing programs; and

     - seasonality.

     In addition, sales for any future quarter may vary and accordingly be
inconsistent with our plans. We generally operate with limited order backlog
because our products are typically shipped shortly after orders are received. As
a result, product sales in any quarter are generally dependent on orders booked
and shipped in that quarter. Product sales are also difficult to forecast
because the network storage market is rapidly evolving and our sales cycle
varies substantially from customer to customer.

     Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in one or more
future quarters our results may fall below the expectations of public market
analysts and investors, as has been the case through the last two quarters of
fiscal 2001. In such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely
decrease.

OUR GROSS MARGINS MAY VARY BASED ON THE CONFIGURATION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

     We derive a significant portion of our sales from the resale of disk drives
as components of our filers, and the resale market for hard disk drives is
highly competitive and subject to intense pricing pressures. Our sales of disk
drives generate lower gross margin percentages than those of our filer products.
As a result, as we sell more highly configured systems with greater disk drive
content, overall gross margin percentages will be negatively affected.
Conversely, we believe our increased licensing of add-on software products may
favorably impact gross margins.

     Our gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of
other factors, including:

     - demand for storage and content delivery products;

     - discount levels and price competition;



     - direct versus indirect sales;

     - the mix of software as a percentage of revenue;

     - the mix and average selling prices of products;

     - new product introductions and enhancements; and

     - the cost of components, manufacturing labor, and quality.

A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR EXPENSES ARE FIXED WHICH COULD AFFECT OUR NET
INCOME.

     Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future sales
and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. As a result, if sales
levels are below expectations, as has been the case through the second half of
fiscal 2001, net income will be disproportionately affected.

OUR FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DEPENDS ON GROWTH IN THE NETWORK STORAGE AND
CONTENT DELIVERY MARKET AND ANY LACK OF GROWTH WILL HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     All of our products address the storage and content delivery market.
Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on
continued growth in the storage and content delivery market and on emerging
standards in these markets. We cannot assure you that the market for storage and
content delivery will continue to grow or that emerging standards in these
markets will not adversely affect the growth of UNIX, Windows NT and the World
Wide Web server markets. In addition, our business also depends on general
economic and business conditions. A reduction in demand for network storage and
content delivery caused by weakening economic conditions and decreases in
corporate spending has resulted in decreased revenues or lower revenue growth
rates. The network storage and content delivery market growth declined
significantly beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2001, causing both our
revenues and operating results to decline. If the network storage and content
delivery markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if network storage and
content delivery based on emerging standards other than those adopted by us
become increasingly accepted by the market, our operating results could be
materially adversely affected.

THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR COMMON STOCK HAS FLUCTUATED SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE PAST
AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO DO SO IN THE FUTURE.

     The market price for our common stock has been volatile in the past, and
several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future.
These factors include:

     - fluctuations in our operating results;

     - fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be
       comparable to us;

     - a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts'
       expectations;

     - changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;

     - announcements of new products, applications or product enhancements by us
       or our competitors; and

     - changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers and strategic
       partners.

     In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has
particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high
technology companies. Additionally, certain macro economic factors such as
changes in interest rates as well as market climate for the high technology
sector could also have an impact on the trading price of our stock. As a result,
the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future
and any broad market decline, as well as our own operating results, may
materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.



THE SUCCESS OF OUR NETCACHE APPLIANCE PRODUCTS DEPENDS UPON MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF
CACHING TECHNOLOGY AND CONTINUED GROWTH IN THE CONTENT DELIVERY MARKET.

     In late 1997, we released our NetCache appliance products, a new category
of hardware-based Internet caching appliances designed to speed and manage the
delivery of information stored on the Web. However, hardware-based caching
technology is still developing.

     Our future financial performance will depend in part on the acceptance of
caching technology and the acceptance of our NetCache appliance products. We
cannot assure you that the caching appliance market will continue to grow at
previous rates or at all.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND RESPOND TO
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, OR IF OUR NEW PRODUCTS DO NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE,
OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction
of new hardware and software products. Due to the complexity of storage
sub-systems and Internet caching devices, and the difficulty in gauging the
engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject
to significant technical risks. During fiscal 2001, we began shipping the F85,
and F800 series, the NetCache C6100, the NetCache C3100, the NetCache C1100, and
ContentDirector and ContentReporter content management software products. The
NetCache platform with NetCache 5.0 software offers live and video-on-demand
capability. However, we cannot assure you that any of our new products will
achieve market acceptance. Additional product introductions in future periods
may also impact the sales of existing products. In addition, our new products
must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are
unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new
products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or
customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our
operating results could be materially adversely affected.

WE DEPEND ON ATTRACTING AND RETAINING QUALIFIED TECHNICAL AND SALES PERSONNEL.

     Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify,
attract, motivate and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. Because
our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and
introduce new products, we are particularly dependent on our ability to
identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite
education, backgrounds and industry experience. Competition for qualified
engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley, is intense. The loss of the services
of a significant number of our engineers or sales people could be disruptive to
our development efforts or business relationships and could materially adversely
affect our operating results.

RISKS INHERENT IN OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE
EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     We conduct business internationally. For the year ended April 27, 2001
approximately 38.0% of our net sales were to international customers (including
United States exports). Accordingly, our future operating results could be
materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond
our control, including regulatory, political or economic conditions in a
specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory
requirements and government spending patterns.

     Our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign
currencies. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign
currencies could make our products more expensive and, therefore, potentially
less competitive in foreign markets. For international sales and expenditures
denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with
currency fluctuations. We hedge risks associated with foreign currency
transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates on earnings. We utilize forward contracts to hedge trade and
intercompany receivables and payables. All hedge contracts are marked to market
through earnings every period. There can be no assurance that such hedging
strategy will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will
not have a material adverse effect on our operating results.



     Additional risks inherent in our international business activities
generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles,
difficulties in managing international operations and potentially adverse tax
consequences. Such factors could materially adversely affect our future
international sales and, consequently, our operating results.

     Although operating results have not been materially adversely affected by
seasonality in the past, because of the significant seasonal effects experienced
within the industry, particularly in Europe, our future operating results could
be materially adversely affected by seasonality.

     We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase
international market demand for our products. We believe our net sales will not
increase in fiscal 2002 at the rate at which they grew in fiscal 2001.

AN INCREASE IN COMPETITION COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING
RESULTS.

     The storage and content delivery markets are intensely competitive and are
characterized by rapidly changing technology

     In the storage market, our filer appliances and data management software
compete primarily against storage products and data management software from EMC
Corporation, Hitachi Data Systems, Compaq Computer Corporation, Sun
Microsystems, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, and IBM Corporation. We also
encounter less frequent competition from companies including MTI Corp., Procom
Technology, LSI Logic Corp., and Auspex Systems, Inc.

     In the content delivery market, our NetCache appliances and content
delivery software compete against caching appliance and content delivery
software vendors including Cisco Systems, Inc., CacheFlow, Inc., Inktomi Corp.,
Akamai Technologies, Inc., and Volera.

     This past year has seen an increasing number of new, privately held
companies attempting to enter our markets, some of which may become significant
competitors in the future.

     We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our market
include but are not limited to:

     - Response time and performance

     - Scalability

     - Data availability

     - Multiprotocol data sharing

     - Acquisition price and low overall total cost of ownership

     - Ease-of-use and deployment

     - Customer service and support

     Although we believe that our products currently compete favorably with
respect to these factors, we can not assure you that we can maintain our
competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those
with significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical,
and other resources.

     Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced gross
margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect
our operating results. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than
we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or
devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of
their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established
or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third
parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among
competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or
future competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially adversely
affect our operating results.

     We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our market
include product features such as response time, reliability, data availability,
scalability, ease of use, price, multi-protocol capabilities and customer
service and support. Although we believe that our products currently compete
favorably with respect


to these factors, we cannot assure you that we can maintain our competitive
position against current and potential competitors, especially those with
significantly greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and
other resources.

WE RELY ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS AND ANY DISRUPTION OR TERMINATION OF
THESE SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS COULD DELAY SHIPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS AND COULD
MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     We rely on a limited number of suppliers of several key components utilized
in the assembly of our products. We purchase most of our disk drives through a
single supplier. We purchase computer boards and microprocessors from a limited
number of suppliers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves
several risks, including:

     - a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components
       because we do not have long-term supply commitments;

     - supplier capacity constraints;

     - price increases;

     - timely delivery; and

     - component quality.

     In the future, we intend to increasingly rely on contract manufacturers to
assemble our products. If our contract manufacturers' operations were
interrupted for any reason, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to
customers would be materially adversely affected.

     Component quality is particularly significant with respect to our supplier
of disk drives. In order to meet product performance requirements, we must
obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there
are periodic supply and demand issues for disk drives, microprocessors and for
semiconductor memory components, which could result in component shortages,
selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to obtain our full requirements of such
components in the future or that prices of such components will not increase. In
addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of such components and
timeliness of deliveries could occur. Disruption or termination of the supply of
these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially
adversely affect our operating results. Such delays could also damage
relationships with current and prospective customers.

WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL NOT INCUR PROBLEMS WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE
EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS OR THAT WE WILL REALIZE VALUE FROM SUCH
STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS.

     We are continuously evaluating alliances and external investment in
technologies related to our business. We have already made relatively small
strategic investments in a number of network storage related technology
companies and acquired two companies since the beginning of fiscal 2001. Equity
investments may result in the loss of investment capital. Acquisitions of
companies or products and alliances and strategic investments entail numerous
risks, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate
acquired operations and products or to realize anticipated synergies, economies
of scale, or other value. In addition, we may experience a diversion of
management's attention, the loss of key employees of acquired operations or the
inability to recover strategic investments in development stage entities. Any
such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operation.

WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT OUR OEM RELATIONSHIPS WITH DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
AND FUJITSU LIMITED WILL GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUE.

     While our agreements with Dell Computer Corporation and Fujitsu Limited are
an element of our strategy to increase penetration in the Windows NT market,
neither Dell Computer Corporation nor Fujitsu Limited have made purchase
commitments for our products. Currently we do not, and cannot assure you that we
will generate significant revenue from these agreements.


WE DO NOT HAVE EXCLUSIVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR DISTRIBUTORS AND ACCORDINGLY
THERE IS A RISK THAT THOSE DISTRIBUTORS MAY GIVE HIGHER PRIORITY TO PRODUCTS OF
OTHER SUPPLIERS WHICH COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     Our distribution customers generally offer products of several different
companies, including products of our competitors. Accordingly, there is risk
that these distributors may give higher priority to products of other suppliers,
which could materially adversely affect our operating results.

UNDETECTED SOFTWARE ERRORS OR FAILURES FOUND IN NEW PRODUCTS MAY RESULT IN LOSS
OF OR DELAY IN MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS WHICH COULD MATERIALLY
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     Our products may contain undetected software errors or failures when first
introduced or as new versions are released. Despite testing by us and by current
and potential customers, errors may not be found in new products until after
commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market
acceptance, which could materially adversely affect our operating results.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO
INCREASED COMPETITION THAT COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING
RESULTS.

     Our success depends significantly upon our proprietary technology. We
currently rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets,
confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and patents to protect our
proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other
written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws, which afford
only limited protection. We have registered trademarks including our "Network
Appliance" name and logo, "FAServer," "FilerView," "NetApp," "NetCache" and
"SecureShare" trademarks in the United States. Other United States trademarks
and some of the other United States -- registered trademarks are registered
internationally as well. We will continue to evaluate the registration of
additional trademarks as appropriate. We generally enter into confidentiality
agreements with our employees and with our resellers and customers. We currently
have multiple United States and international patent applications pending and
multiple United States patents issued. The pending applications may not be
approved and if patents are issued, such patents may be challenged. If such
challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. We cannot assure you
that we will develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable,
that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantages or will
not be challenged by third parties, or that the patents of others will not
materially adversely affect our ability to do business.

     Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. Any such
litigation may be time-consuming and costly. Despite our efforts to protect our
proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our
products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In
addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights
to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you
that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our
competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our
products or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property
rights of ours.

     We are subject to intellectual property infringement claims. We may, from
time to time receive claims that we are infringing third parties' intellectual
property rights. In fiscal 1997, we settled litigation related to the alleged
infringement of third party rights and other claims, which resulted in a pre-tax
expense of $4.3 million ($3.5 million in payments to the plaintiffs and $0.8
million in legal fees). Third parties may in the future claim infringement by us
with respect to current or future products, patents, trademarks or other
proprietary rights. We expect that companies in the appliance market will
increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and
competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in
different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims could be time-consuming,
result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, require us to
redesign our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing
agreements, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating
results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available
on terms acceptable to us or at all.



PROTECTIVE ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER AND BYLAWS COULD MATERIALLY
ADVERSELY AFFECT STOCKHOLDERS.

     Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of
preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and
restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote
or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be
subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the
holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of
preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third
party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Further, certain
provisions of our bylaws pertaining to the future elimination of cumulative
voting and shareholder action by written consent could delay or make more
difficult a proxy contest involving us, which could materially adversely affect
the market price of our common stock.

WE RELY ON A CONTINUOUS POWER SUPPLY AND ANY POWER SHORTAGE COULD INTERRUPT OUR
MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS AND COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING
RESULTS.

     California is in the midst of an energy crisis that could disrupt our
operations and increase our expenses. In the event of an acute power shortage,
that is, when power reserves for the State of California fall below certain
critical levels, California has on some occasions implemented, and may in the
future continue to implement, rolling blackouts. We currently have limited
backup generators or alternate sources of power in the event of a blackout, and
our current insurance does not provide coverage for any damages we or our
customers/suppliers may suffer as a result of any interruption in our power
supply. If blackouts interrupt our power supply or our suppliers' power supply,
we could be temporarily unable to continue operations at our California
facilities. Any such interruption in our ability to continue operations at our
facilities or our suppliers' facilities to manufacture products could damage our
reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and to obtain new
customers, and could result in lost revenue, any of which could materially
adversely affect our operating results.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     In fiscal 2000, we executed agreements to acquire approximately 37.7 acres
of land in Sunnyvale, California. These sites will support expansion of
approximately 800,000 square feet to accommodate future growth. In fiscal 1999,
we executed agreements to acquire approximately 18 acres of land in Sunnyvale,
California and to develop 393,000 square feet of buildings. This headquarter
site consolidated general administration, sales and marketing, research and
development, customer services and manufacturing operations.

     We have commitments related to operating lease arrangements, under which we
have an option to purchase various properties for an aggregate of $309.0
million, or arrange for the sale of the properties to a third party for at least
the option price with a contingent liability for any deficiency. We lease other
sales offices and research and development facilities throughout the United
States and internationally. We believe that our existing facilities and those
being developed in Sunnyvale are adequate for our requirements over at least the
next two years and that additional space will be available as needed.

     See additional discussion regarding properties in "Note 4 under Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     None.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSIONS OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

     Our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market on
November 21, 1995 and is traded under the symbol "NTAP." As of April 27, 2001,
there were 883 holders of record of the common stock. The following table sets
forth for the periods indicated the high and low closing sale prices for our
common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, adjusted to reflect the
effect of the December 20, 1999 and March 22, 2000 two-for-one stock splits.



     We believe that a number of factors may cause the market price of our
common stock to fluctuate significantly. See "Item 1. Business -- Risk Factors."

     We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently
anticipate retaining all available funds, if any, to finance internal growth and
product development. Payment of dividends in the future will depend upon our
earnings and financial condition and such other factors as the directors may
consider or deem appropriate at the time.

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED APRIL 30, 2000
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)





ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     The following discussion of our financial condition and results of
operations should be read together with the financial statements and the related
notes thereto set forth under "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data." This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks
and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those
anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors,
including those set forth in "Item 1. Business -- Risk Factors" and elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

     We pioneered the concept of the "network appliance" for storage -- an
extension of the industry trend toward dedicated, specialized products that
perform a single function. Today we are a leader in delivering high-performance
network storage and content delivery solutions on a network. Our storage and
content delivery platforms (filers and NetCache appliances) are coupled with
content distribution and reporting software. This Center-to-Edge solution offers
seamless data management from the back-end data center to the edge of the
network quickly, simply, and reliably.

     We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sales of our
network filer and caching appliances. As a result, a reduction in the demand for
our filer and NetCache appliances due to increased competition, a general
decline in the market for network storage and content delivery or other factors
could materially adversely affect our operating results.

     Our gross margin has been and may continue to be affected by a variety of
other factors, including:

     - demand for storage and content delivery products;

     - discount levels and price competition;

     - product configuration;

     - direct versus indirect sales;

     - the mix of software as a percentage of revenue;

     - the mix and average selling prices of products;

     - new product introductions and enhancements; and

     - the cost of components, manufacturing labor and quality.

     Operating results have not been materially adversely affected by
seasonality in the past. However, because of the significant summer seasonal
effects experienced within the industry, particularly in Europe, our future
operating results could be materially adversely affected by seasonality.

     For the year ended April 30, 2001 approximately 38.0% of our net sales were
derived from international customers (including United States exports).
Accordingly our future operating results could be materially adversely affected
by a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. For more
information on risks associated with our international operations, see "Item
1 -- Business -- Risk Factors -- Risks inherent in our international operations
could have a material adverse effect on our operating results."



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income
data as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated:



FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000

     Business Combinations -- During the first quarter of fiscal 2001, we
acquired Orca Systems, Inc. for a purchase price of $50.0 million in common
stock, assumed options and cash, with an obligation to provide 264,497 shares of
common stock, which will result in additional stock compensation charges if
certain performance criteria are achieved. We also paid certain transaction
costs and assumed certain operating assets and liabilities. The acquisition was
accounted for as a purchase. The purchase price of the transaction was allocated
to the acquired assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as
of the date of the acquisition. Amounts allocated to existing workforce and
goodwill are being amortized on a straight-line basis over three-and five-year
periods, respectively. Approximately $26.7 million was allocated to in-process
research and development and charged to operations because the acquired
technology had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative
uses.

     During the third quarter of fiscal 2001, we acquired WebManage
Technologies, Inc. for $59.4 million in common stock, assumed options and cash,
with an obligation to provide shares of common stock to be valued at $3.0
million, if certain performance criteria are achieved. The performance criteria
were met in March 2001 and the contingent consideration has been recorded as
stock compensation in the fourth quarter of 2001. We also paid certain
transaction costs and assumed certain operating assets and liabilities. The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. The purchase price of the
transaction was allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities based on their
estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition. Amounts allocated to
existing technology and workforce are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over three years and amounts allocated to goodwill are being amortized over five
years.

     Net Sales -- Net sales increased by 73.7% to $1,006.2 million in fiscal
2001, from $579.3 million in fiscal 2000. Net sales growth was across all
geographies, products and markets. This increase in net sales was primarily
attributable to a higher volume of units shipped, as compared to the
corresponding period of the



prior fiscal year. This growth in volume declined in the second half of fiscal
2001. Factors impacting unit growth include:

     - demand for our F700 filers utilizing primarily fibre-channel disks;

     - introduction of our new higher capacity F840, mid-range F820 and F85
       entry-level filer products;

     - increased worldwide demand for our NetCache appliances and content
       delivery network solutions;

     - increased worldwide shipment of NetApp Cluster Failover solutions, which
       require another filer to take over in the event of a hardware failure;

     - increased demand for the SnapMirror software option, which requires
       multiple filers to provide remote mirroring of data for quick disaster
       recovery and backup at remote sites;

     - expansion of our sales organization to 976 in fiscal 2001 from 582 in
       fiscal 2000; and

     - increased sales through indirect channels, including sales through our
       OEM partners, representing 23.9% and 28.0% of total net sales for fiscal
       2001 and 2000, respectively.

     Net sales growth was also positively impacted by:

     - a higher average selling price of our add-on software options:
       SnapMirror, SnapRestore and SnapManager for Microsoft Exchange and
       Cluster Failover, supporting mission-critical applications;

     - a higher average selling price of our new high-end F840 filer;

     - a higher average selling price due to the introduction of NetCache
       software features, including ContentReporter and ContentDirector;

     - the increase in storage capacity;

     - increased add-on software revenue from Multi-Protocol solutions; and

     - higher software subscription and service revenues to support a growing
       installed base.

     Overall net sales growth was partially offset by:

     - declining demand for our products in the second half of fiscal 2001;

     - declining average selling price of the F700 filers and caching products
       due to competitive pricing; and

     - declining unit sales of our older product family.

     International net sales (including United States exports) grew by 115.0%
for fiscal 2001 as compared to fiscal 2000. International net sales were $382.5
million, or 38.0% of total net sales for fiscal 2001. The increase in
international sales for fiscal 2001, was primarily a result of European and Asia
Pacific net sales growth, due to increased headcount in the direct sales force,
increased indirect channel sales, increased shipments of filers, Cluster
Failover solutions and NetCache appliances and increased sales of add-on
software licenses, as compared to the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal
year. We expect to continue to selectively add sales capacity in an effort to
expand domestic and international markets, introduce new products, establish and
expand new distribution channels and increase product and company awareness. We
believe our international net sales will not increase in fiscal 2002 at the rate
at which they grew in fiscal 2001.

     Gross Margin -- Gross margin increased to 60.1% of net sales for fiscal
2001, from 59.3% for fiscal 2000.

     Gross margin was favorably impacted by:

     - increased licensing of add-on software options such as Multi-Protocol,
       Cluster Failover, SnapMirror, SnapRestore, SnapManager and new software
       introductions including ContentReporter and ContentDirector;

     - growth in software subscriptions due primarily to a larger installed
       base;

     - lower costs of key components;


     - the increase in product volume;

     - increased manufacturing efficiencies; and

     - a mix shift to high-end F840 systems sold as diskless upgrades, carrying
       higher margin than configured systems.

     Gross margin was negatively impacted by sales price reductions on storage
products due to competitive pricing pressure, higher disk content with an
expanded storage capacity for the F840 filer, lower sales volume in the second
half of fiscal 2001, lower of cost or market adjustments to inventory and
increased investments in customer service.

     Our gross margin has been and may continue to be affected by a variety of
factors, including:

     - demand for our products;

     - discount levels and price competition;

     - product configuration;

     - direct versus indirect sales;

     - the mix of software as a percentage of revenue;

     - the mix and average selling prices of products;

     - new product introductions and enhancements; and

     - the cost of components, manufacturing labor and quality.

     Sales and Marketing -- Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of
salaries, commissions, advertising and promotional expenses and certain customer
service and support costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased 87.8% to
$289.0 million for fiscal 2001 from $153.9 million for fiscal 2000. These
expenses were 28.7% and 26.6% of net sales for fiscal 2001 and 2000,
respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily related to the
continued worldwide expansion of our sales and customer service organizations,
expansion of various marketing and industry initiatives, increased commission
expenses in the first three quarters and disposal of certain capital assets in
the fourth quarter. Sales and marketing headcount increased to 1,277 in fiscal
2001 from 775 in fiscal 2000. We expect to continue to selectively add sales
capacity in an effort to expand domestic and international markets, introduce
new products, establish and expand new distribution channels and increase
product and company awareness. We do not expect to increase our sales and
marketing expenses materially in fiscal 2002.

     Research and Development -- Research and development expenses consist
primarily of salaries and benefits, prototype expenses, non-recurring
engineering charges and fees paid to outside consultants. Research and
development expenses increased 96.4% to $120.9 million in fiscal 2001 from $61.6
million in fiscal 2000. These expenses represented 12.0% and 10.6% of net sales,
for fiscal year 2001 and 2000, respectively. Research and development expenses
increased in absolute dollars, primarily as a result of increased headcount,
operating impact of Orca and WebManage acquisitions, ongoing support of current
and future product development and enhancement efforts, prototyping expenses and
non-recurring engineering charges associated with the development of new
products and technologies, including the NetApp F85, F800 series filers and the
new generation of our NetCache appliances coupled with our content distribution
and reporting software. Research and development headcount increased to 566 in
fiscal 2001 from 327 in fiscal 2000. We believe that our future performance will
depend in large part on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product
line, develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain
technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer
requirements. We intend to continuously expand our existing product offerings
and introduce new products and expect that such expenditures will continue to
increase moderately in absolute dollars. For both fiscal 2001 and 2000, no
software development costs were capitalized.

     General and Administrative -- General and administrative expenses increased
90.7% to $40.2 million in fiscal 2001, from $21.5 million in fiscal 2000. These
expenses represented 4.0% and 3.6% of net sales, for fiscal



2001 and 2000, respectively. Increases in absolute dollars were primarily due to
increased headcount, expenses associated with initiatives to enhance
enterprise-wide management information systems and increased professional
service fees. General and administrative headcount increased to 253 in fiscal
2001 from 162 in fiscal 2000. We believe that our general and administrative
expenses will not increase significantly in absolute dollars in fiscal 2002.

     Amortization of Intangible Assets -- Amortization of intangible assets
represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the
tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired by us. Intangible assets as
of April 30, 2001, including goodwill, existing workforce and technology, are
being amortized over the estimated useful life of three to five-year periods. We
assess the recoverability of intangible assets by determining whether the
amortized asset over its useful life may be recovered through estimated useful
cash flows. Amortization of intangible assets charged to operations was $11.7
million and $0.2 million in fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     In-process Research and Development -- We incurred in-process research and
development charges of approximately $26.7 million in fiscal 2001 related to the
acquisition of Orca. The purchase price of the transaction was allocated to the
acquired assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of the
date of the acquisition. Approximately $26.7 million was allocated to in-process
research and development and charged to operations, because the acquired
technology had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative
uses. The value was determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired
in-process technology into commercially viable products, estimating the
resulting net cash flows from such projects, and discounting the net cash flows
back to their present value. The discount rate included a factor that took into
account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the acquired
in-process technology. These estimates are subject to change, given the
uncertainties of the development process, and no assurance can be given that
deviations from these estimates will not occur. Excluding the charge that may
result from 264,497 contingently issuable common shares, research and
development costs to bring the products from Orca to technological feasibility
are not expected to have a material impact on our future results of operations
or financial condition.

     We believe we can utilize the Orca acquisition to develop the first virtual
interface-based (VI) next generation of network storage systems. We are
leveraging VI architecture to develop the Direct Access File System (DAFS)
protocol. DAFS enables data transfers straight from the file server, allowing
clusters of application servers in heterogeneous environments to share data from
the memory of one system to the memory of another without involving
general-purpose operating systems, thereby improving CPU utilization and
speeding up data access. We expect to continue the development of products using
this protocol and believe that there is a reasonable chance of successfully
delivering initial products in calendar year 2001. However, there is risk
associated with the completion of the in-process project and there can be no
assurance that such project will meet with either technological or commercial
success. Failure to successfully develop and commercialize this in-process
project would result in the loss of the expected economic return inherent in the
fair value allocation. Additionally, the value of other intangible assets
acquired may become impaired. The risks associated with the research and
development are still considered high and no assurance can be made that upcoming
products will meet market expectations or gain market acceptance.

     Stock Compensation -- We account for stock-based employee compensation
arrangements in accordance with provisions of APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees," for employee compensation awards and comply with the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," for
non-employee compensation awards. Accordingly, we recognize the intrinsic value
for employees and the fair value for non-employees as stock compensation expense
over the vesting terms of the awards. Stock compensation expenses were $6.2
million and $1.3 million in fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively. This increase
was primarily attributable to the recognition of stock compensation of unvested
options assumed in the WebManage acquisition, issuance of contingently issuable
milestones shares, increased participation in the salaried stock option grant
program by certain highly compensated employees and non-employee stock options
awards.



     Total Other Income, net -- Total other income, net, was $23.4 million and
$9.0 million in fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in interest
income was primarily due to increased cash and short-term investments generated
from operations and net proceeds from stock option exercises.

     Provision for Income Taxes -- Our effective tax was 34.5%, excluding the
effect of non-deductible amortization of goodwill and acquired in-process
research and development of $35.5 million for fiscal 2001. The effective tax
rate for fiscal 2000 was 35.5%. The effective tax rates differed from the U.S.
statutory rate primarily due to state taxes, credits, tax exempt interest,
goodwill amortization and acquired in-process research and development.

FISCAL 2000 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1999

     Net Sales -- Net sales increased by 100.2% to $579.3 million in fiscal
2000, from $289.4 million in fiscal 1999. Net sales growth was across all
geographies, products and markets. This increase was primarily attributable to a
higher volume of units shipped, as compared to the corresponding period of the
prior fiscal year. Factors impacting unit growth include:

     - strong demand for our F700 filer products utilizing primarily
       fibre-channel connectivity;

     - increased worldwide demand for our NetCache solutions;

     - increased worldwide shipment of NetApp Cluster Failover solutions, which
       require another filer to take over in the event of a hardware failure;

     - increased demand for the SnapMirror software option, which requires
       multiple filers to provide remote mirroring of data for quick disaster
       recovery and backup at remote sites;

     - expansion of our sales organization to 582 in fiscal 2000, from 309 in
       fiscal 1999; and

     - increased sales through indirect channels, representing 28.0% of total
       sales compared to 25.2% in the prior year, including sales through our
       two OEM partners.

     Net sales growth was also positively impacted by:

     - a higher average selling price due to the introduction of new software
       features: SnapMirror, SnapRestore and Cluster Failover, supporting
       mission-critical applications;

     - the increase in storage capacity;

     - increased add-on software revenue from multi-protocol solutions; and

     - higher software subscription and service revenues to support a growing
       installed base.

     Overall net sales growth was partially offset by declining unit sales of
our older products and declining average selling price of the caching products
due primarily to competitive pricing pressure.

     International net sales (including United States exports) grew by 100.4%
for fiscal 2000, as compared to fiscal 1999. International net sales were $177.9
million, or 30.7% of total net sales for fiscal 2000. The increase in
international sales for fiscal 2000, was primarily a result of European sales
growth, due to increased headcount in the direct sales force, increased indirect
channel sales, increased shipments of filers, Cluster Failover solutions,
NetCache appliances and increased sales of add-on software licenses. Asia
Pacific net sales growth for fiscal 2000, was also primarily driven by increased
sales through resellers, increased headcount in the direct sales force,
increased shipments of filers, and NetCache appliances and increased sales of
add-on software licenses, as compared to fiscal 1999.

     We cannot assure you that our net sales will continue to increase in
absolute dollars or at the rate at which they have grown in recent fiscal
periods.



     Gross Margin -- Gross margin increased slightly to 59.3% of net sales for
fiscal 2000, from 59.2% for fiscal 1999.

     Gross margin was favorably impacted by:

     - increased licensing of add-on software options such as: multi-protocol,
       Cluster Failover, SnapMirror and SnapRestore associated with new filers
       shipped;

     - growth in software subscription due primarily to a larger installed base;

     - increased manufacturing efficiencies;

     - the increase in product volume; and

     - lower costs of key components.

     Gross margin was negatively impacted by sales price reductions on storage
products due to competitive pricing pressure from other storage vendors and
increased investments in customer service personnel in areas such as logistics
and professional services.

     Sales and Marketing -- Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of
salaries, commissions, advertising and promotional expenses and certain customer
service and support costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased 104.4% to
$153.9 million for fiscal 2000 from $75.3 million for fiscal 1999. These
expenses were 26.6% and 26.0% of net sales for fiscal 2000 and 1999,
respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily related to the
continued worldwide expansion and increased headcount growth of our sales and
customer service organizations, and increased commission expenses. Sales and
marketing headcount increased from 411 at April 30, 1999 to 775 at April 30,
2000. In fiscal 2000, we launched various marketing and advertising programs,
which also contributed to absolute dollar increases in sales and marketing
expenses. We expect to continue to increase our sales and marketing expenses in
an effort to expand domestic and international markets, introduce new products,
establish and expand new distribution channels and increase product and company
awareness. We believe that our continued growth and profitability is dependent
in part on the successful expansion of our international operations, and
therefore, have committed significant resources to increase international sales.

     Research and Development -- Research and development expenses consist
primarily of salaries and benefits, prototype expenses, non-recurring
engineering charges and fees paid to outside consultants. Research and
development expenses increased 105.5% to $61.6 million in fiscal 2000 from $30.0
million in fiscal 1999. These expenses represented 10.6% and 10.4% of net sales,
for fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively. Research and development expenses
increased in absolute dollars, primarily as a result of increased headcount,
ongoing support of current and future product development and enhancement
efforts, prototyping expenses and non-recurring engineering charges associated
with the development of new products and technologies. Research and development
headcount increased from 198 at April 30, 1999 to 327 at April 30, 2000. In
fiscal 2000, we shipped new enterprise software offerings and data management
tools with SnapManager for Microsoft Exchange and ApplianceWatch. We also
introduced new caching products which included NetCache software release 4.0 and
NetCache 4.1, adding streaming media support for Apple QuickTime, Microsoft
Windows Media and RealNetworks Real System G2 users, delivering live
broadcasting on the Internet. In fiscal 1999, we introduced the F700 series
filers, the Cluster Failover solutions, the C700 caching products, SnapMirror,
SnapRestore, and SecureAdmin(TM). We believe that our future performance will
depend in large part on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product
line, develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain
technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer
requirements. We intend to continuously expand our existing product offerings
and introduce new products and expect that such expenditures will continue to
increase in absolute dollars. For both fiscal 2000 and 1999, no software
development costs were capitalized.

     General and Administrative -- General and administrative expenses increased
114.1% to $21.1 million in fiscal 2000, from $9.9 million in fiscal 1999. These
expenses represented 3.6% and 3.4% of net sales, for fiscal 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Increases in absolute dollars were primarily due to increased
headcount, expenses associated with initiatives to implement enterprise-wide
management information systems, increases in


professional services, consulting fees and outside service fees. General and
administrative headcount increased from 80 at April 30, 1999 to 162 at April 30,
2000. We believe that our general and administrative expenses will increase in
absolute dollars as we continue to build our infrastructure.

     Total Other Income, Net -- Total other income, net, was $9.0 million and
$1.9 million in fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively. The increase was due
primarily to interest income earned on the net proceeds from the March 1999
follow-on public offering, cash generated from operations, and net proceeds from
stock option exercises. Fiscal 1999 included losses from foreign currency
transactions as compared to fiscal 2000, where gains or losses from foreign
transactions have been partially mitigated through our hedging program.

     Provision for Income Taxes -- Our effective tax rate was 35.5% for fiscal
2000 compared to 37.5% for the fiscal 1999. The effective tax rates differed
from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to state taxes, credits and tax
exempt interest.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     As of April 30, 2001, as compared to the April 30, 2000 balances, our cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by $10.5 million to $364.0
million. Working capital decreased by $3.1 million to $416.7 million. The
decrease was primarily a result of $193.7 million restricted cash used to
collateralize our operating leases. We generated cash from operating activities
totaling $218.4 million and $118.1 million in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000,
respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2001 was
principally related to net income of $74.9 million, increases in accounts
payable, income taxes payable, accrued compensation and related benefits and
deferred revenue, decreases in prepaid expenses and other, coupled with
depreciation, in-process research and development, amortization of intangibles,
stock compensation amortization, partially offset by increases in accounts
receivable, inventories, deferred income taxes and decrease in other accrued
liabilities.

     We used $83.7 million and $40.8 million of cash in fiscal 2001 and fiscal
2000, respectively, for capital expenditures. The increase was primarily
attributed to upgrades of software and computer equipment purchases and
furniture and fixtures for the Sunnyvale headquarters facility. We have used
$14.3 million and $68.9 in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000, respectively, for net
purchases of short-term investments. In June 2000, we acquired Orca for a
purchase price of approximately $50.0 million, including common stock,
contingently issuable common stock, assumed options, cash payments of $2.0
million and related transaction costs. In November 2000, we acquired WebManage
for a purchase price of approximately $59.4 million, including common stock,
contingently issuable common stock, assumed options, cash payments of $5.0
million and related transaction costs. Investing activities in fiscal 2001 also
included new equity investments of $7.0 million.

     We have used $113.3 million in fiscal 2001 for financing activities and
received $53.8 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase in cash provided by sales of common stock in fiscal 2001, compared
to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, was due to an increased
quantity of stock options exercised at a higher average exercise price and a
greater number of employees participating in the employee stock purchase plan.
Offsetting this increase for the fiscal year 2001 was restricted cash of $193.7
million used to collateralize operating leases. See Note 4 to the Notes to the
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Excluding the commitments related to operating lease arrangements for
various properties in our Sunnyvale headquarters, which aggregate $309.0
million, we currently have no significant commitments other than commitments
under operating leases. We believe that our existing liquidity and capital
resources, including the available amounts under our $5.0 million line of
credit, are sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve
months.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," is effective for all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.
SFAS No. 133, as amended, establishes accounting and reporting



standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instrument
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. Under SFAS No. 133,
certain contracts that were not formerly considered derivatives may now meet the
definition of a derivative. We will adopt SFAS effective May 1, 2001 and do not
expect that the adoption will have a significant impact on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flow.

ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We are exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in interest rates,
market prices and in foreign currency exchange rates. We use certain derivative
financial instruments to manage these risks. We do not use derivative financial
instruments for speculative or trading purposes. All financial instruments are
used in accordance with board-approved policies.

Market Interest and Interest Income Risk

     Interest and Investment Income -- As of April 27, 2001, we had short-term
investments of $92.1 million. Our investment portfolio consists of highly liquid
investments with original maturities at the date of purchase between three and
twelve months and investment in marketable equity securities in certain
technology companies. These highly liquid investments, consisting primarily of
government and corporate debt securities, are subject to interest rate and
interest income risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates
increase. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates from
levels at April 27, 2001, would cause the fair value of these short-term
investments to decline by an immaterial amount. Because we have the ability to
hold these investments until maturity we would not expect any significant
decline in value of our investments caused by market interest rate changes.
Declines in interest rates over time will, however, reduce our interest income.
We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.

     Operating Lease Commitments -- As of April 27, 2001, we have outstanding
lease commitments to a third-party entity under operating lease agreements,
which vary based on a monthly London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate plus a
spread. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates would increase our
annual rent expense under operating lease commitments by approximately $1.5
million. Increases in interest rates could, however, increase our rent expenses
associated with future lease payments. We do not currently hedge against
interest rate increases. Our investment portfolio offers a natural hedge against
interest rate risk from our operating lease commitments in the event of a
significant increase in the market interest rate. Moreover, a total of $193.7
million in operating leases are collateralized with investments that have
similar, and thus offsetting, interest rate characteristics.

Market Price Risk

     Equity Securities -- We are also exposed to market price risk on our equity
securities included in our short-term investments. These investments are in high
technology companies in the volatile high-technology industry sector. We do not
attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities and as a
result, the amount of income or loss and cash flow that we ultimately realize
from these investments in future periods may vary materially from the current
unrealized amount. A 50% adverse change in the equity price would result in an
approximate $4.1 million decrease in the fair value of our equity securities as
of April 27, 2001 (no such equity securities were held as of April 30, 2000).

     The hypothetical changes and assumptions discussed above will be different
from what actually occurs in the future. Furthermore, such computations do not
anticipate actions that may be taken by management, should the hypothetical
market changes actually occur over time. As a result, the effect on actual
earnings in the future will differ from those described above.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

     We hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to
minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings.
We utilize forward contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of foreign
currency fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies. All hedge instruments are marked to market through earnings every
period. We believe that these forward


contracts do not subject us to undue risk due to foreign exchange movements
because gains and losses on these contracts are offset by losses and gains on
the underlying assets and liabilities.

     All contracts have a maturity of less than one year and we do not defer any
gains and losses, as they are all accounted for through earnings every period.

     The following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward
contracts outstanding on April 27, 2001, (in thousands):



     The following table provides information about our foreign exchange forward
contracts outstanding on April 30, 2000, (in thousands):





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareholders of
Network Appliance, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Network
Appliance, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of April 30, 2001 and 2000, and the
related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and
comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended April 30, 2001. Our audits also included the consolidated financial
statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2). These financial statements and the
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Network Appliance,
Inc. and its subsidiaries as of April 30, 2001 and 2000, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended April 30, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the consolidated
financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2), when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

San Jose, California
May 14, 2001



                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

 1. THE COMPANY

     Network Appliance, Inc., incorporated in the state of California in April
1992, and its subsidiaries engaged in the design, manufacturing, marketing and
support of high-performance network storage and content delivery solutions which
provide fast, simple, reliable, cost-effective and seamless data management from
back-end data center to the edge of the network.

 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Fiscal Year -- We operate on a 52-week or 53-week year ending on the last
Friday in April. For presentation purposes we have indicated in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements that our fiscal year end is April 30. Fiscal
2001 and fiscal 2000 were 52-week fiscal years. Fiscal 1999 was a 53-week fiscal
year.

     Basis of Presentation -- The consolidated financial statements include the
company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts from prior years
have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. These
reclassifications did not change previously reported total assets, liabilities,
shareholders' equity or net income.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents -- We consider all highly liquid debt investments
with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

     Short-term Investments -- Our short-term investments consist of securities
with original maturities ranging between three and twelve months. All of our
investments are classified as available-for-sale, which are measured at market
value, and net unrealized gains or losses are recorded in cumulative other
comprehensive loss, a separate component of shareholders' equity, until
realized. Any gains or losses on sales of investments are computed based upon
specific identification. For all periods presented, realized gains and losses on
available-for-sale investments were not material. Management determines the
appropriate classification of debt and equity securities at the time of purchase
and reevaluates the classification at each reporting date. Available-for-sale
investments are reviewed for evidence of reductions in market value that are
other than temporary. Management believes that no such impairments have occurred
at April 30, 2001. Approximately $193,747 of our investment portfolio at April
30, 2001 is invested in a certificate of deposit and is restricted to
collateralize our operating leases and classified as non-current restricted
cash.

     Investments in Non-Public Companies -- We have certain investments in
non-publicly traded companies in which we have less than 20% of the voting
rights and in which we do not exercise significant influence. These investments
are included in other assets on the balance sheet and are carried at cost. We
monitor these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in
carrying value when reductions in market value are other than temporary.

     Inventories -- Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in,
first-out basis) or market.

     Property and Equipment -- Property and equipment are stated at cost and
depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives which range
from two to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over their
estimated useful lives or the life of the lease, whichever is shorter.

     Revenue Recognition -- In accordance with Statement of Position ("SOP")
97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition," we recognize revenue when persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the fee is fixed or determinable, collectibility is probable and
vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate a portion of the total fee
to any undelivered elements of the arrangement. This generally occurs at the
time of shipment. We also record estimated product return, warranty reserves and
other allowances based on historical experience. Revenues from software
subscriptions, which entitle customers to software updates, including bug fixes,
patch releases and major revisions, and services are

                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

recognized over the terms of the related contractual periods and were less than
10% of net sales in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.

     Advertising Costs -- Advertising costs are charged to operations when
incurred. Advertising expenses for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 were approximately
$5,258, $2,594 and $1,072, respectively.

     Software Development Costs -- We capitalize eligible computer software
development costs, which include software enhancement costs, upon the
establishment of technological feasibility, which occurs upon the completion of
a working model. Software development costs capitalized have not been
significant.

     Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Exchange Contracts -- Prior to
fiscal 1999, the functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries was the U.S.
dollar. Accordingly, all monetary assets and liabilities were translated at the
current exchange rate at the end of the year, nonmonetary assets and liabilities
were translated at historical rates and net sales and expenses were translated
at average exchange rates in effect during the period. Transaction gains and
losses, which are included in other income (expense) in the accompanying
consolidated statements of income, have not been significant.

     In fiscal 1999, we determined that the functional currencies of certain of
our foreign subsidiaries had changed from the U.S. dollar to the local
currencies. Accordingly, for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, assets and liabilities
of our foreign subsidiaries are translated in U.S. dollars at the exchange rates
in effect as of the balance sheet date, and results of operations for each
subsidiary are translated using average rates in effect for the period
presented. Translation adjustments have been included within shareholders'
equity as part of cumulative other comprehensive loss. The effect of the change
in functional currencies did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

     Foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which are included in the
consolidated statements of income, have not been material in any of the three
years presented. We utilize forward exchange contracts to hedge against the
short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain assets or
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The gains or losses on these
contracts are included in income as the exchange rates change. Management
believes that these forward contracts do not subject us to undue risk due to
foreign exchange movements because gains and losses on these contracts are
offset by losses and gains on the underlying assets and transactions being
hedged.

     Certain Significant Risks and Uncertainties -- The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     We are subject to certain risks, including without limitation, risks
relating to fluctuating operating results, customer and market acceptance of new
products, dependence on new products, rapid technological change, litigation,
dependence on growth in the network storage and content delivery market,
management of international operations, product concentration, changing product
mix, competition, reliance on a limited number of suppliers, equity investments
and acquisitions, management of our operations in light of reduced demand for
our products, dependence on high-quality components, dependence on proprietary
technology, intellectual property rights, dependence on key personnel,
volatility of stock price, shares eligible for future sale, effect of certain
anti-takeover provisions and dilution and dependence on a continuous power
supply.

     Concentration of Credit Risk -- Financial instruments which potentially
subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash
equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable. Cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments consist primarily of municipal
securities, cash accounts held at various banks and a money market fund held at
several financial institutions. We sell our products primarily to large


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

organizations in different industries and geographies. Credit risk is further
mitigated by our credit evaluation process and limited payment terms. We do not
require collateral or other security to support accounts receivable. In
addition, we maintain an allowance for potential credit losses. In entering into
forward foreign exchange contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise
from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their
contracts. The counterparties to these contracts are major multinational
commercial banks, and we do not expect any losses as a result of counterparty
defaults.

     Comprehensive Income -- During fiscal 1999, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS
130"), which requires an enterprise to report, by major components and as a
single total, the change in net assets during the period from nonowner sources.
Comprehensive income for the years ended April 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999 has been
disclosed within the consolidated statements of shareholders' equity and
comprehensive income.

     Net Income Per Share -- Basic net income per share is computed by dividing
income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding for that period. Diluted net income per share is computed
giving effect to all dilutive potential shares that were outstanding during the
period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of incremental common shares
subject to repurchase and common shares issuable upon exercise of stock options.

     The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the
basic and diluted net income per share computations for the periods presented:



     At April 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, 18,005 and 537 and 1,410 shares of common
stock options with a weighted average exercise price of $59.45, $95.00 and
$13.36 respectively, were excluded from the diluted net income per share
computation as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price
of the common shares for the periods.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

     Statements of Cash Flows -- Supplemental cash flow and noncash investing
and financing activities are as follows:



     Geographic Operating Information -- During fiscal 1999, we adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information" ("SFAS 131"), which establishes annual
and interim reporting standards for an enterprise's business segments and
related disclosures about its products, services, geographic areas and major
customers. We operate in one reportable segment (Note 8).

     Stock-Based Compensation -- We record stock compensation in accordance with
provisions of APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and all of
its interpretations for employee awards and in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," for non-employee
awards. Accordingly, we recognize the intrinsic value for employees and the fair
value for non-employees as stock compensation expense over the vesting terms of
the awards.

     Accounting for Intangible and Long-Lived Assets -- Intangible assets
include goodwill and other intangible assets such as existing workforce and
existing technology, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful life of three to five-year periods. We evaluate the impairment
of long-lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles and goodwill related to
those assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.

     Recently Issued Accounting Standards -- SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," is effective for all fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS No. 133, as amended, establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities.
Under SFAS No. 133, certain contracts that were not formerly considered
derivatives may now meet the definition of a derivative. We will adopt SFAS 133
effective May 1, 2001 and do not expect that the adoption will have a
significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

 3. BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS

SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The following is a summary of investments at April 30, 2001:



     The following is a summary of investments at April 30, 2000:



INVENTORIES, NET



PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT




                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

 4. COMMITMENTS

     In fiscal 2000, we executed agreements to acquire approximately 37.7 acres
of land in Sunnyvale, California. These sites will support expansion of
approximately 800,000 square feet to accommodate future growth. In fiscal 1999,
we executed agreements to acquire approximately 18 acres of land in Sunnyvale,
California and to develop 393,000 square feet of buildings. The leases are for
five years and can be renewed for two five-year periods, subject to the approval
of the lessor. This headquarter site consolidated general administration, sales
and marketing, research and development, customer services and manufacturing
operations.

     We have commitments related to operating lease arrangements for our
headquarter site in Sunnyvale, California, under which we have an option to
purchase various properties at the expiration or termination of the lease for
$309,000, or arrange for the sale of the property to a third party for at least
$309,000 with a contingent liability for any deficiency. If the property is not
purchased or sold as described above, we will be obligated for an additional
lease payment of approximately $276,566.

     Restricted cash, classified as non-current assets collateralizing these
leases, was $193,747 at April 30, 2001. The lease payments under operating
leases collateralized by restricted cash, will vary based on LIBOR plus a spread
(4.7% at April 27, 2001). The remaining non-collateralized operating lease
requires monthly payments, which vary, based on LIBOR plus a spread (5.9% at
April 27, 2001). The operating leases mentioned above require us to maintain
specified financial covenants with which we were in compliance as of April 30,
2001.

     We lease other sales offices and research and development facilities
throughout the United States and internationally. These sales offices are also
leased under operating leases which expire through fiscal 2013. We are
responsible for certain maintenance costs, taxes and insurance under these
leases. The aggregate annual minimum rent commitment under our operating leases
is included in the minimum annual lease payments schedule below.

     Future minimum annual lease payments as of April 30, 2001, are as follows:



     Rent expense was $18,090, $7,779 and $5,963 for the years ended April 30,
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Rent expense under certain of our facility
leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The
difference between the amounts paid and the amounts expensed is classified as
long-term obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

 5. LINE OF CREDIT

     In July 1998, we negotiated a $5,000 unsecured revolving credit facility
with a domestic commercial bank. Under terms of the credit facility, which
expires in October 2002, we must maintain various financial covenants. Any
borrowings under this agreement bear interest at either LIBOR plus 1% or at the
lender's "prime" lending rate, such rate determined at our discretion.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

     We also have foreign exchange facilities used for hedging arrangements with
several banks that allow us to enter into foreign exchange contracts of up to
$100,000, of which $18,056 was available at April 30, 2001.

 6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Follow-on Public Offering -- In March 1999, we completed a public offering
of 11,500 shares of our common Stock and received net proceeds of $138,834.

     Stock Splits -- On December 20, 1999 and March 22, 2000, the Company
effected two-for-one stock splits of the outstanding shares of common stock. All
share and per share amounts in these consolidated financial statements have been
adjusted to give effect to the stock split.

     Preferred Stock -- Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
5,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences,
privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without
any further vote or action by the shareholders.

     Stock Option Plans -- We adopted the 1993 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan
(the "1993 Plan") in April 1993. In September 1995, we adopted the 1995 Stock
Incentive Plan (the "1995 Plan"). The 1995 Plan replaced the 1993 Plan, and
provides for the grant of options and the issuance of common stock under terms
substantially the same as those provided under the 1993 Plan, except that the
1995 Plan does not allow for the exercise of options prior to vesting.
Accordingly, all options and shares issued under the 1993 Plan were incorporated
into the 1995 Plan upon the effectiveness of our initial public offering.

     Under the 1995 Plan, the Board of Directors may grant to employees,
directors and consultants options to purchase shares of our common stock. The
exercise price for an incentive stock option and a nonqualified stock option
cannot be less than 100% and 85%, respectively, of the fair market value of our
common stock as determined by the Board of Directors on the date of grant.
Options granted under the 1995 Plan generally vest at a rate of 25% on the first
anniversary of the vesting commencement date and then ratably over the following
36 months. Options expire as determined by the Board of Directors, but not more
than ten years after the date of grant.

     In April 1997, the Board of Directors adopted the Special Non-Officer Stock
Option Plan (the "Non-Officer Plan") which provides for the grant of options and
the issuance of common stock under terms substantially the same as those
provided under the 1995 Plan, except that the Non-Officer Plan allows only for
the issuance of nonqualified options to non-officer employees.

     In August 1999, the Board of Directors adopted the 1999 Stock Option Plan
(the "1999 Plan") which is comprised of two separate equity incentive programs:
(i) the Discretionary Option Grant Program under which options may be granted to
eligible individuals during the service period at a fixed price per share and
(ii) Automatic Option Grant Program under which non-employee Board members will
automatically receive special option grants at designated intervals over their
period of Board service.

     The 1999 Plan will supplement the existing 1995 Plan and Non-Officer Plan
and those plans will continue to remain in full force and effect until all
available shares have been issued under each such plan. However, the Automatic
Option Grant Program previously in effect under the 1995 Plan terminated as of
October 26, 1999 and all automatic option grants made to non-employee Board
members on or after that date will be made under the 1999 Plan.

     Under the 1999 Plan, the Board of Directors may grant to employees,
directors and consultants and other independent advisors options to purchase
shares of our common stock during their period of service with us. The exercise
price for an incentive stock option and a non-statutory option cannot be less
than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.
Options granted under the 1999 Plan generally vest at a rate of 25% on the first
anniversary of the vesting commencement date and then ratably over the following

                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

36 months. Options will have a term of ten years after the date of grant,
subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events.

     Options granted under the 1999 Plan are subject to the cancellation/regrant
program with the following limitations: (i) only options held by employees who
are neither executive officers nor members of the Board can be repriced; and
(ii) the total number of repriced options will not exceed ten percent of the
total number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the 1999
Plan.

     In fiscal 2001, we have assumed various stock option plans in connection
with our Orca and WebManage acquisitions. Pursuant to the provisions of the
Merger agreements, outstanding shares were exchanged under certain exchange
ratios in effect at the time of merger. Options granted under these plans
generally vest at a rate of 25% on the first anniversary of the vesting
commencement date and then ratably over the following 36 months. Options expire
as determined by the Board of Directors, but not more than ten years after the
date of grant.

     A summary of the combined activity under our stock option plans and
agreements is as follows:



     Unvested common shares issued under the 1993 Plan of 5 as of April 30, 2001
are subject to repurchase by the Company.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

Additional information regarding options outstanding as of April 30, 2001 is as
follows:



     Employee Stock Purchase Plan -- Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
employees are entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the fair
market value at certain specified dates. Of the 8,200 shares authorized to be
issued under this plan, 2,265 shares were available for issuance at April 30,
2001 and 448, 1,473 and 1,092 shares were issued in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively, at a weighted average price of $27.96, $3.87 and $2.80,
respectively.

     Pro Forma Information -- As discussed in Note 2, we continue to account for
our stock-based awards using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB
No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and its related
interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized in the
financial statements for employee stock arrangements with the exception of
$6,223, $1,345 and $667 in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, which
consists of the amortization of deferred stock compensation related to the
granting of nonqualified stock options at exercise prices below market, the
recognition of stock compensation of unvested options assumed in the WebManage
acquisition and issue of contingently issuable milestones shares.

     In fiscal 1999, we recorded compensation expense of $230 for the fair value
of options granted to an independent contractor.

     SFAS 123 requires the disclosure of pro forma net income and net income per
share had we adopted the fair value method as of the beginning of fiscal 1996.
Under SFAS 123, the fair value of stock-awards to employees is calculated
through the use of option pricing models, even though such models were developed
to estimate the fair value of freely tradeable, fully transferable options
without vesting restrictions, which significantly differ from our stock option
awards. These models also require subjective assumptions, including future stock
price volatility and expected time to exercise, which greatly affect the
calculated values. Our


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

calculations were made using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions:



     Our calculations are based on a multiple option valuation approach and
forfeitures are recognized as they occur. If the computed fair values of the
awards issued beginning in fiscal 1996 had been amortized to expense over the
vesting period of the awards, pro forma net income and net income per share
would have been as follows:



     However, the impact of outstanding non-vested stock options granted prior
to fiscal 1996 has been excluded from the pro forma calculations; accordingly,
the 1999 pro forma adjustments are not indicative of future period pro forma
adjustments, when the calculation will apply to all applicable stock options.

     Deferred Stock Compensation -- In May 1995, we issued stock options for the
purchase of 8,504 shares of common stock at $0.02 per share. We recognized $515
of deferred compensation in May 1995 equal to the difference between the option
price as determined by the Board of Directors and $0.08 (the deemed fair value
for financial reporting purposes) for each option. We are amortizing the
deferred compensation expense ratably over the four-year period in which the
options vest.

     We recorded $14,127, $1,845 and $916 of deferred compensation in fiscal
2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, primarily related to the recognition of stock
compensation of unvested options assumed in the WebManage acquisition, the issue
of contingently issuable milestones shares, and the grant of stock options to
certain highly compensated employees. Under terms of the 1995 Stock Option Plan,
highly compensated employees as defined by our management are eligible to
contribute between $15 to $75 in annual salary for the rights to be granted
nonqualified stock options. The discount from fair market value which is equal
to the amount of salary contributed has been recorded as deferred compensation
expense. We are amortizing the deferred compensation expense ratably over a
one-year period.

     In fiscal 2001, under terms of the acquisition agreement with WebManage, we
issued an additional 101 shares of common stock to former WebManage shareholders
upon meeting certain performance criteria. The fair market value of the shares
of $3,000 was measured on the date the performance criteria were met and was
recognized as stock compensation.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

 7. INCOME TAXES

     Income before income taxes is as follows:



     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



     The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying
the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:



     The income tax benefits associated with dispositions from employee stock
transactions of $65,062, $56,248 and $17,776, respectively, for fiscal 2001,
2000 and 1999, were recognized as additional paid in capital.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

     The components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:



     Current net deferred tax assets are $36,287 and $22,215, as of April 30,
2001 and April 30, 2000, respectively. Non-current net deferred tax assets at
April 30, 2001 and 2000 are $10,043 and $1,126, respectively, and are included
in other assets within the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     As of April 30, 2001, the federal and state net operating loss
carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $779,789 and $169,886,
respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire
in fiscal 2011, and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to
expire in fiscal 2006. As of April 30, 2001, we had federal and state credit
carryforwards of approximately $23,392 and $18,629, respectively, available to
offset future taxable income. These federal credit carryforwards will begin to
expire in 2013.

     We have provided a valuation allowance on certain of our deferred tax
assets because of uncertainty regarding their realizability due to expectation
of future employee stock option exercises. A valuation allowance of $330,860 and
$89,493 at April 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, is attributable to deferred
tax assets consisting of certain tax credits and net operating loss
carryforwards resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. When
recognized, the tax benefit of these credits and losses will be accounted for as
a credit to shareholders' equity rather than as a reduction of the income tax
provision.

 8. SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHIC AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION

     We adopted SFAS 131 in fiscal 1999. SFAS 131 establishes annual and interim
reporting standards for an enterprise's operating segments and related
disclosures about its products, services, geographic areas and major customers.
Under SFAS 131, we operate in one reportable industry segment: the design,
manufacturing and marketing of high-performance network storage and access
devices. For the years ended April 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, we recorded revenue
from customers throughout the United States and Canada; Europe; Latin America,
Australia and Asia Pacific.


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

     The following presents net sales for the years ended April 30, 2001, 2000,
and 1999 by geographic area and long-lived assets as of April 30, 2001 and 2000
by geographic area.



     Net sales above are attributed to regions based on the customers' shipment
locations.

     International sales include export sales primarily to the United Kingdom,
Germany, Japan, France, Israel, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Sweden, Canada and
Australia. No single foreign country accounted for 10% or more of net sales in
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.

     No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales in fiscal 2001, 2000 or
1999.

 9. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The following summary disclosures are made in accordance with the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures
About Fair Value of Financial Instruments" ("SFAS 107"), which requires the
disclosure of fair value information about both on- and off-balance sheet
financial instruments where it is practicable to estimate the value. Fair value
is defined in SFAS 107 as the amount at which an instrument could be exchanged
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale. Because SFAS 107 excludes certain financial instruments and
all non-financial instruments from its disclosure requirements, any aggregation
of the fair value amounts presented would not represent the underlying value of
the Company. Amounts at April 30 consist of:



     We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading
purposes. We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge trade and
intercompany receivables and payables against future movement in foreign
exchange rates. All hedge contracts are marked to market through earnings every
period.

     The forward foreign exchange contracts require us to exchange foreign
currencies for U.S. dollars or vice versa and generally mature in one month or
less. As of April 30, 2001, we had $81,944 of outstanding foreign exchange
contracts in Australian Dollars, British Pounds, Swiss Francs and European
Currency Units, that had remaining maturities of one month or less. As of April
30, 2000, we had $17,995 of outstanding foreign


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

exchange contracts in British Pounds, Swiss Francs and European Currency Units,
that had remaining maturities of one month or less. These foreign exchange
contracts are adjusted to the fair value at the end of every month and included
in other income (expense), net. Gains and losses on these foreign exchange
contracts are offset by losses and gains on the underlying assets and
liabilities. At April 30, 2001 and 2000, the estimated fair values of forward
foreign exchange contracts were $82,385 and $17,813, respectively. Unrealized
gains or losses on foreign exchange contracts were not significant at April 30,
2001. The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on prevailing
financial market information. Other than foreign exchange contracts, we have not
entered into any other material financial derivative instruments.

     Approximately $193,747 of our investment portfolio at April 30, 2001 is
invested in a certificate of deposit and is restricted to collateralize our
operating leases and classified as non-current restricted cash.

     The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and
restricted cash reported in the consolidated balance sheets approximate their
carrying value. The fair value of short-term investments and foreign exchange
contracts is based on quoted market prices. Short-term investments comprise
investments in companies in the volatile high-technology market.

10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN

     We have established a 401(k) tax-deferred savings plan ("Savings Plan").
Employees meeting the eligibility requirements, as defined, may contribute
specified percentages of their salaries. We contributed $1,109, $611 and $314
for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

11. ACQUISITIONS

     In June 2000, we completed the acquisition of Orca, a developer of high
performance Virtual Interface (VI) Architecture software for UNIX and Windows NT
enterprise-class systems, based in Waltham, Massachusetts. The acquisition fits
with our strategy of developing highly available and reliable intelligent
storage solutions that improve the performance of today's Internet and
enterprise applications and strengthen our ability to develop next generation
storage networking architectures and protocols. The acquisition was accounted
for as a purchase. Under terms of the agreement, we acquired Orca for $50,037 in
common stock, assumed options and cash, with an obligation to provide 264 shares
of common stock (valued at $5,782 based on our closing stock price on April 27,
2001), which will result in additional stock compensation charges if certain
performance criteria are achieved. We also paid certain transaction costs and
assumed certain operating assets and liabilities.

     The purchase price of the transaction was allocated to the acquired assets
and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of the date of the
acquisition. Approximately $26,688 was allocated to in-process research and
development and charged to operations because the acquired technology had not
reached technological feasibility and had no alternative uses. The value was
determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired in-process technology
into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from
such projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value.
The discount rate included a factor that took into account the uncertainty
surrounding the successful development of the acquired in-process technology.
These estimates are subject to change, given the uncertainties of the
development process, and no assurance can be given that deviations from these
estimates will not occur. Excluding the charge that may result from 264
contingently issuable common shares, research and development costs to bring the
products from Orca to technological feasibility are not expected to have a
material impact on our future results of operations or financial condition.
Costs incurred prior to establishment of technological feasibility are charged
to research and development expense and have not been material through April 30,
2001. We expect to successfully complete such development efforts and deliver
initial products in calendar year 2001.

                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

     In November 2000, we completed the acquisition of WebManage, a developer of
content management, distribution, and analysis software solutions, based in
Chelmsford, Massachusetts. The acquisition is expected to contribute
significantly to our initiative to integrate filers and caching more closely to
enable customers to build content delivery networks that improve access to
information throughout their networks. WebManage develops software that
intelligently distributes content between various points on the Internet and
enables organizations to plan, manage and deliver Internet/intranet services. We
will be making some modifications and enhancements to WebManage's software and
expect to complete such development efforts by mid or end of calendar year 2001.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. Under terms of the agreement,
we acquired WebManage for $59,371 in common stock, assumed options and cash. We
also had an obligation to provide shares of common stock to be valued at $3,000,
if certain performance criteria were achieved. The performance criteria were met
in March 2001 and as such, the contingent consideration has been recorded as
stock compensation in the fourth quarter of 2001. We also paid certain
transaction costs and assumed certain operating assets and liabilities.

     The total purchase prices and final allocation among the fair value of
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired (including purchased
in-process technology) are summarized as follows (in thousands):

     Total Purchase Price:



     Purchase Price Allocation:



     In accordance with FASB interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for Certain
Transactions involving Stock Compensation", we recorded the intrinsic value,
measured as the difference between the grant price and fair market value on the
acquisition consummation date, of unvested options assumed in the WebManage
acquisition as deferred stock compensation. Such deferred stock compensation,
which aggregated $12,304, is recorded as a separate component of shareholders'
equity in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet and will be
amortized over the vesting term of the related options.

     The operating results of Orca and WebManage have been included in the
condensed consolidated statements of operations since their acquisition dates.
The following pro forma consolidated amounts give


                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
         (DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER-SHARE DATA)

effect to these acquisitions as if they had occurred on April 30, 1999 by
consolidating the results of operations of the acquired entities with our
results for the years ended April 30, 2001 and April 30, 2000.



     The pro forma results of operations give effect to certain adjustments,
including amortization of purchased intangibles, goodwill, contingently issuable
shares, common stock and assumed options in connection with the acquisitions.
The $26,688 charge for purchased in-process research and development has been
excluded from the pro forma results, as it is a material non-recurring charge.

12. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)







ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by this Item with respect to the Company's
executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from the information
under Item 1 of Part I of this Report under the section entitled "Executive
Officers." The information required by this Item with respect to the Company's
directors is incorporated herein by reference from the information provided
under the heading "Election of Directors" of the Definitive Proxy Statement
which will be filed with the Commission. The information required by Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the information provided
under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" of
the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information regarding the compensation of executive officers and directors
of the Company is incorporated by reference from the information under the
heading "Executive Compensation and Related Information" in our Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is incorporated by reference from the information under the heading
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in our Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference from the information under the caption "Employment
Contracts, Termination of Employment and Change-In-Control Agreements" in our
Proxy Statement.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1) The following consolidated financial statements of Network Appliance,
       Inc. are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

        Independent Auditors' Report

        Consolidated Balance Sheets -- April 30, 2001 and 2000

        Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended April 30, 2001,
        2000 and 1999

        Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
        for the years ended April 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended April 30,
        2001, 2000 and 1999

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule.

     The following financial statement schedule of the Company is filed in Part
IV, Item 14(d) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

     Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule or because
the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or
notes thereto.

(a)(3) Exhibits.















- ---------------
 (1) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Form 8-K dated March 17,

 (2) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 25, 1996

 (3) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 (No. 33-97864)

 (4) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 7, 1997

 (5) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 23, 1997

 (6) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 5, 1997

 (7) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 6, 1998

 (8) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 22, 1998

 (9) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated September 11, 1998

(10) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 11, 1998

(11) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 11, 1999

(12) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated August 31, 1999

(13) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 2, 1999

(14) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated February 29, 2000

(15) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
     July 12, 2000

(16) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 11, 2000

(17) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 12, 2001



  *  Specified portions of this agreement have been omitted and have been filed
     separately with the Commission pursuant to a request for confidential
     treatment

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     None.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on July 26, 2001.

                                          NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                                          By:   /s/ DANIEL J. WARMENHOVEN
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                   Daniel J. Warmenhoven
                                               President and Chief Executive
                                                           Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Daniel J. Warmenhoven and Jeffry R. Allen, and
each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments (including
post-effective amendments) to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could
do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitutes, may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue thereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:









                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                            NETWORK APPLIANCE, INC.

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                   YEARS ENDED APRIL 30, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX















- ---------------
 (1) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Form 8-K dated March 17,

 (2) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 25, 1996

 (3) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 (No. 33-97864)

 (4) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 7, 1997

 (5) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 23, 1997

 (6) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 5, 1997

 (7) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 6, 1998

 (8) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Annual Report on Form
     10-K dated July 22, 1998

 (9) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated September 11, 1998

(10) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 11, 1998

(11) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 11, 1999

(12) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated August 31, 1999

(13) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 2, 1999

(14) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated February 29, 2000

(15) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Annual Report on Form 10-K dated
     July 12, 2000

(16) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated December 11, 2000

(17) Previously filed as an exhibit with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
     10-Q dated March 12, 2001

 *   Specified portions of this agreement have been omitted and have been filed
     separately with the Commission pursuant to a request for confidential
     treatment


