
10-K405
h95548e10-k405.txt
CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. - 12/31/2001


================================================================================

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
  (MARK ONE)
      [X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                       OR

      [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                  FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM       TO


                            COMMISSION FILE NUMBER -

                            CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Texas                                      74-0694415
   (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                    Identification Number)

            1111 LOUISIANA
          HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002                            (713) 207-3000
       (Address and zip code of                  (Registrant's telephone number,
     principal executive offices)                       including area code)

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: None

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: None

CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. MEETS THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN GENERAL INSTRUCTION
I(1)(a) AND (b) OF FORM 10-K AND IS THEREFORE FILING THIS FORM 10-K WITH THE
REDUCED DISCLOSURE FORMAT.

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

     As of March 31, 2002, all 1,000 outstanding shares of CenterPoint Energy,
Inc.'s common stock were held by Reliant Energy, Incorporated.

================================================================================





                                





                                        i


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

     CenterPoint Energy, Inc., a Texas corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary
of Reliant Energy, Incorporated (Reliant Energy), was incorporated in August
2001 to become the holding company for Reliant Energy and its subsidiaries
following the Restructuring, as defined below. Reliant Energy is a utility
holding company that conducts electric utility operations in Texas, as well as
non-utility wholesale and retail energy operations. CenterPoint Energy, Inc.,
which is referred to in this Form 10-K as "CenterPoint Energy," "we," "us,"
"our" or other similar terms, does not currently conduct any operations.
CenterPoint Energy's executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana, Houston,
TX 77002 (telephone number 713-207-3000).

     Since its incorporation, CenterPoint Energy has had no business operations
and no shareholders other than Reliant Energy. CenterPoint Energy is filing this
Form 10-K to satisfy the requirements of Section 15(d) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

BUSINESS SEPARATION AND HOLDING COMPANY RESTRUCTURING

     In June 1999, the Texas Electric Choice Plan was signed into law. The law
requires, among other things, the separation of the generation, transmission and
distribution and retail functions of electric utilities in Texas into three
different units. In order to comply with the law, Reliant Energy proposed, and
the Public Utility Commission of Texas approved, a business separation plan
providing for the separation of Reliant Energy's regulated and unregulated
businesses into two publicly traded companies.

     Reliant Energy is in the process implementing its business separation plan.
In December 2000, Reliant Energy transferred a significant portion of its
unregulated businesses to Reliant Resources, Inc. (Reliant Resources), a
Delaware corporation which, at the time, was a wholly owned subsidiary of
Reliant Energy. Reliant Resources conducted an initial public offering of
approximately 20% of its common stock in May 2001. In December 2001, Reliant
Energy's shareholders approved an agreement and plan of merger by which:

o    CenterPoint Energy will become the holding company for Reliant Energy and
     its subsidiaries,

o    Reliant Energy and its subsidiaries will become CenterPoint Energy's
     subsidiaries, and

o    each share of Reliant Energy common stock will be converted into one share
     of CenterPoint Energy common stock (Restructuring).

     Immediately after the Restructuring, CenterPoint Energy's financial
     statements and other information will be substantially similar to that of
     Reliant Energy immediately prior to the Restructuring.

     Reliant Energy currently plans to complete the separation of its regulated
and unregulated businesses by distributing the remaining equity interest in the
common stock of Reliant Resources then owned by CenterPoint Energy to the
shareholders of CenterPoint Energy (Distribution). The plan is to complete the
Restructuring and subsequent Distribution as quickly as possible after all the
necessary conditions are fulfilled, including receipt of a favorable order from
the SEC granting CenterPoint Energy an exemption from regulation as a holding
company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and an extension
from the IRS for a private letter ruling Reliant Energy obtained regarding the
tax-free treatment of the Distribution. Reliant Energy currently expects to
complete the Restructuring and Distribution in the summer of 2002.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

     CenterPoint Energy does not own any physical properties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     None.





ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     The information called for by Item 4 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(c) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR CENTERPOINT ENERGY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

     All of the 1,000 outstanding shares of CenterPoint Energy's common stock
are held by Reliant Energy.

     After the consummation of the Restructuring, the declaration and payment of
future dividends by CenterPoint Energy will be at the discretion of its board of
directors. Since CenterPoint Energy will not directly conduct any business
operations from which it will derive revenues, the payment and rate of future
dividends on CenterPoint Energy common stock will depend primarily upon the
earnings, financial condition and capital requirements of its subsidiaries.
Following the Distribution, CenterPoint Energy will not be as large a company as
Reliant Energy is today, and the earnings of the subsidiaries and assets that
were transferred to Reliant Resources will not be available for the payment of
dividends on the CenterPoint Energy common stock. As a result, the cash
dividends per share of CenterPoint Energy common stock are expected to be
reduced from those of Reliant Energy prior to the Distribution to a level that
is consistent with both its earnings profile and the level of cash dividends of
other predominately regulated utility businesses.

     Subject to the availability of earnings, the needs of its businesses, and
other applicable restrictions, Reliant Energy and certain of its former
subsidiaries intend to make regular cash payments to CenterPoint Energy after
the Restructuring in the form of dividends or distributions on their stock or
membership interest in amounts which would be sufficient to pay cash dividends
on CenterPoint Energy common stock as described above and to pay operating
expenses of CenterPoint Energy and for other purposes as the board of directors
of CenterPoint Energy may determine. CenterPoint Energy expects that cash
dividends will be declared and paid on approximately the same schedule of dates
as that now followed by Reliant Energy with respect to Reliant Energy common
stock dividends.





ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The information called for by Item 6 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(a) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF
CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. AND ITS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES.

     CenterPoint Energy was incorporated in August 2001 as a wholly owned
subsidiary of Reliant Energy. It is currently anticipated that, upon receipt of
necessary regulatory approvals, CenterPoint Energy will become the holding
company for Reliant Energy and its subsidiaries. On September 17, 2001,
CenterPoint Energy filed a registration statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
333-69502) with the SEC, which included a proxy statement seeking the approval
of Reliant Energy's shareholders of the agreement and plan of merger by which
CenterPoint Energy will become the holding company. Reliant Energy's
shareholders approved the Merger Agreement on December 17, 2001.

     CenterPoint Energy has conducted no business operations and has had no
shareholder other than Reliant Energy since its incorporation.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     Not applicable.





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA OF CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC.


                    CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                DECEMBER 31, 2001





              See Notes to the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet





                    CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


(1) BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     On August 31, 2001, Reliant Energy, Incorporated (Reliant Energy) formed a
new corporation, Reliant Energy Regco, Inc., a Texas corporation, to become its
holding company. Reliant Energy Regco, Inc. is a direct wholly owned subsidiary
of Reliant Energy. On September 10, 2001, Reliant Energy Regco, Inc. formed a
new wholly owned Delaware limited liability company subsidiary named Utility
Holding, LLC. On September 12, 2001, Utility Holding, LLC formed a new wholly
owned Texas corporate subsidiary named Reliant Energy MergerCo, Inc. (MergerCo).
To effect the holding company structure, Reliant Energy will merge with MergerCo
(Merger). On October 9, 2001, Reliant Energy Regco, Inc.'s corporate charter was
amended to change its corporate name to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. CenterPoint
Energy, Inc. has 1,020,000,000 authorized shares of capital stock, comprised of
1,000,000,000 shares of no par value common stock and 20,000,000 shares of no
par value preferred stock.

     The Merger is the mechanical step necessary for Reliant Energy to become a
subsidiary of the new holding company in order to comply with regulatory
legislation related to the deregulation of the Texas electric industry. Upon
completion of the Merger, which is expected to occur in the summer of 2002,
Reliant Energy and Reliant Energy's subsidiaries will be indirect subsidiaries
of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. CenterPoint Energy, Inc. has not, to date, conducted
any activities other than those incident to its formation and the matters
contemplated by the merger agreement. Accordingly, statements of consolidated
operations, stockholder's equity and cash flows would not provide meaningful
information and have been omitted. Upon the consummation of the Merger,
CenterPoint Energy, Inc. will adopt the accounting policies of Reliant Energy.

(2) SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     Effective March 27, 2002, the Amended and Restated Articles of
Incorporation of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. were amended to change the par value
of the common stock and the preferred stock to $.01 par value per share.





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Stockholder of
CenterPoint Energy, Inc.
Houston, Texas

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of CenterPoint
Energy, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company), a wholly owned subsidiary of
Reliant Energy, Incorporated as of December 31, 2001. This financial statement
is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on this financial statement based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated balance sheet is free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the consolidated balance sheet. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall balance sheet presentation. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet presents fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31,
2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Houston, Texas
March 28, 2002





ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CENTERPOINT ENERGY.

     The information called for by Item 10 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(c) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The information called for by Item 11 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(c) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The information called for by Item 12 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(c) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information called for by Item 13 is omitted pursuant to Instruction
I(2)(c) to Form 10-K (Omission of Information by Certain Wholly Owned
Subsidiaries).

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

         (a)      The following documents are filed as part of this report.

                  1. Financial Statements.
                     Consolidated Balance Sheet
                     Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheet
                     Independent Auditors' Report

                  2. Financial Statement Schedules.

                     None

                  3. Exhibits.
                     See the Index to Exhibits which appears following the
                     signature page to this report.

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

                  None.





                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
Houston, the State of Texas, on the 1st day of April, 2002.

                                         CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC.
                                               (Registrant)

                                        By: /s/ R. STEVE LETBETTER
                                            ----------------------
                                             R. Steve Letbetter,
                                 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on April 1, 2002.



SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED WITH REPORTS FILED PURSUANT TO SECTION
15(d) OF THE ACT BY REGISTRANTS WHICH HAVE NOT REGISTERED SECURITIES PURSUANT TO
SECTION 12 OF THE ACT

No annual report to security holders covering CenterPoint Energy's last fiscal
year has been sent to security holders. No proxy statement, form of proxy or
other proxy soliciting material has been sent to any CenterPoint Energy security
holders with respect to any annual or other meeting of CenterPoint Energy
security holders.





                            CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC.

                   EXHIBITS TO THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                     FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

                                INDEX OF EXHIBITS

     Exhibits not incorporated by reference to a prior filing are designated by
a cross (+); all exhibits not so designated are incorporated herein by reference
to a prior filing as indicated. Exhibits designated by an asterisk (*) are
management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed
as exhibits to this Form 10-K by Item 601(b)(10)(iii) of Regulation S-K.







