10-K


c91285e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

Annual Report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended August 29, 2009, or

o

Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from ______ to _____.

Commission file number 1-10714

AUTOZONE, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Nevada

62-1482048

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

123 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee 38103

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(901) 495-6500

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

On which registered

Common Stock

($.01 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act)

Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and
asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $7,449,415,374.

The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of October 19, 2009, was 49,868,736.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days of August 29, 2009, pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held December 16, 2009, are incorporated by reference into Part III.




Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements typically use words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “should,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,”
“expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “strategy,” and similar expressions. These are based
on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of
historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we
believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, including without limitation, credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary
conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees;
consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war
and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation;
construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or
regulations. Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the “Risk Factors” section
contained in Item IA under Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should read these
Risk Factors carefully. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such
forward-looking statements, and events described above and in “Risk Factors” could materially and
adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except
as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may
materially differ from anticipated results.



PART I

Item 1. Business

Introduction

We are the nation’s leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and
accessories. We began operations in 1979 and at August 29, 2009, operated 4,229 stores in the
United States and Puerto Rico, and 188 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product
line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 29,
2009, in 2,303 of our stores we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial
credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair
garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We also sell the ALLDATA brand
automotive diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, we sell
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through
www.autozone.com, and as part of our commercial sales program, through www.autozonepro.com. We do
not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 29, 2009, our stores were in the following locations:

Store Count

Alabama


Arizona


Arkansas


California


Colorado


Connecticut


Delaware


Florida


Georgia


Idaho


Illinois


Indiana


Iowa


Kansas


Kentucky


Louisiana


Maine


Maryland


Massachusetts


Michigan


Minnesota


Mississippi


Missouri


Montana


Nebraska


Nevada


New Hampshire


New Jersey


New Mexico


New York


North Carolina


North Dakota


Ohio


Oklahoma


Oregon


Pennsylvania


Puerto Rico


Rhode Island


South Carolina




At August 29, 2009, our stores were in the following locations:

Store Count

South Dakota


Tennessee


Texas


Utah


Vermont


Virginia


Washington


Washington, DC


West Virginia


Wisconsin


Wyoming


Domestic Total

4,229

Mexico


Total

4,417

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and quality automotive parts and
products at a great value in conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this
strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which
is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that our AutoZoners (employees) should
always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our
electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts; and warranties are offered by us or our
vendors on many of the parts we sell. Our wide area network in our stores helps us to expedite
credit or debit card and check approval processes, to locate parts at neighboring AutoZone stores,
and in some cases, to place special orders directly with our vendors.

Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday
and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are
open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool

®

program. Customers can borrow a specialty
tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop
would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free
services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery charging, the
collection of DIY used oil for recycling; and the testing of starters, alternators, batteries,
sensors and actuators.

Merchandising

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:

Failure

Maintenance Items

Discretionary

A/C Compressors

Antifreeze & Windshield Washer Fluid

Air Fresheners

Batteries & Accessories

Brake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & Pads

Cell Phone Accessories

Belts & Hoses

Chemicals, including Brake & Power

Drinks & Snacks

Carburetors

Steering Fluid, Oil & Fuel Additives

Floor Mats & Seat Covers

Chassis

Oil & Transmission Fluid

Mirrors

Clutches

Oil, Air, Fuel & Transmission Filters

Performance Products

CV Axles

Oxygen Sensors

Protectants & Cleaners

Engines

Paint & Accessories

Seat Covers

Fuel Pumps

Refrigerant & Accessories

Sealants & Adhesives

Fuses

Shock Absorbers & Struts

Steering Wheel Covers

Ignition

Spark Plugs & Wires

Stereos & Radios

Lighting

Windshield Wipers

Tools

Mufflers

Wash & Wax

Starters & Alternators

Water Pumps

Radiators

Thermostats



We believe that the satisfaction of DIY customers and professional technicians is often impacted by
our ability to provide specific automotive products as requested. Each store carries the same basic
product lines, but we tailor our parts inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each
store’s trade area. Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that can be delivered to
Commercial customers or to local satellite stores.

We are constantly updating the products that we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the
products that our customers demand.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our customers as the value leader in our industry by consistently
providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a good warranty and outstanding
customer service. On many of our products we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best
assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better”
and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line
of in-house brands: Valucraft, AutoZone, Duralast and Duralast Gold. We believe that our overall
value compares favorably to those of our competitors.

Brand: Advertising and Promotions

We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s
environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can
build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions and advertising primarily to advise
customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our great value and the availability
of high quality parts. Broadcast media is our primary advertising method of driving traffic to our
stores. We utilize in-store signage, creative product placement and promotions to help educate
customers about products that they need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful
exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lighted interiors.
Maintenance products, accessories and non-automotive items are attractively displayed for easy
browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays,
end caps and the shelf.

Commercial

Our Commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market, and we are one of the leading
distributors of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages,
dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico.
As a part of the program we offer credit and delivery to our Commercial customers. The program
operates out of 2,303 domestic stores as of August 29, 2009. Through our hub stores, we offer a
greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians; this additional inventory
is available for our DIY customers as well. We have sales teams focused on national, regional and
public sector Commercial accounts.

Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats, resulting in generally
consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s
square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts
inventory. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the
depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The
remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and non-automotive items.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than
relying on traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major
thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.



Store Personnel and Training

Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an
assistant manager. AutoZoners typically have prior automotive experience. All AutoZoners are
encouraged to complete tests resulting in certification by the National Institute for Automotive
Service Excellence (“ASE”), which is broadly
recognized for training certification in the automotive industry. Although we do on-the-job
training, we also provide formal training programs, including an annual national sales meeting,
regular store meetings on specific sales and product issues, standardized training manuals and a
specialist program that provides training to AutoZoners in several areas of technical expertise
from both the Company and from independent certification agencies. Training is supplemented with
frequent store visits by management.

Store managers, sales representatives and commercial specialists receive financial incentives
through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the
promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract,
motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis,
Tennessee and Mexico. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent execution of our
merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of
sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have Z-net, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to
efficiently look up the parts that our customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice
and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the year, make,
model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at other
nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts
counter or pods, where both AutoZoners and customers can view the screen. In addition, our wide
area network enables the stores to expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, to
access national warranty data, to implement real-time inventory controls and to locate and hold
parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code
scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides
administrative assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced
merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System
also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions, simplified warranty and
product return procedures.

Store Development

The following table reflects store development during the past five fiscal years:

Fiscal Year






Beginning Domestic Stores

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

New Stores






Closed Stores






Net New Stores






Relocated Stores






Ending Domestic Stores

4,229

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

Ending Mexico Stores






Ending Total Stores

4,417

4,240

4,056

3,871

3,673

The domestic stores include stores in the United States and Puerto Rico. We believe that expansion
opportunities exist both in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where we
can achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations
and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for
opening a new store are its projected future profitability and its ability to achieve our required
investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population,
demographics, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real
estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven
years old and older, “our kind of vehicles,” as these are generally no longer under the original
manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. We
generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to
existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in a relatively short period of
time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make
strategic acquisitions.



Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in
Memphis, Tennessee and Mexico. In fiscal 2009, no class of similar products accounted for 10
percent or more of our total sales, nor did any single supplier account for more than 10 percent of
our total purchases. We generally have few long-term contracts for the purchase of merchandise. We
believe that we have good relationships with suppliers. We also believe that alternative sources of
supply exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows
through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by
third-party trucking firms.

Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our
stores and to expand our product assortment. A hub store is able to provide replenishment of
products sold and deliver other products maintained only in hub store inventories to a store in its
coverage area generally within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution
centers multiple times per week.

Competition

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many
areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and
price. AutoZone competes in both the retail do-it-yourself (“DIY”) and commercial do-it-for-me
(“DIFM”) auto parts and accessories markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts
stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass
merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience
stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories,
tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service, including the
trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners, merchandise selection and availability, price, product
warranty, store layouts and location.

Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark
office as well as in certain other countries, including our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in
the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Valucraft,” “ALLDATA,”
“Loan-A-Tool” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important
components of our merchandising and marketing strategy.

Employees

As of August 29, 2009, we employed approximately 60,000 persons, approximately 57 percent of whom
were employed full-time. About 92 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct
field supervision,
approximately 5 percent in distribution centers and approximately 3 percent in store support and
other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 3,000 persons employed in our
Mexico operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our
AutoZoners are generally good.

AutoZone Website

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our
investor relations website, http://www.autozoneinc.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes
the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service. Officers are
elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III, 44

—

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal 2007 and has been President,
Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President—Store Operations and Commercial.
Prior to fiscal 2005, he had been Senior Vice President—Supply Chain and Information Technology
since fiscal 2002, and prior thereto had been Senior Vice President—Supply Chain since 2001.
Prior to that time, he served in various capacities within the Company, including Vice
President—Stores in 2000, Senior Vice President—Finance and Vice President—Finance in 1999 and
Vice President—Operations Analysis and Support from 1997 to 1999. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a
manager with Ernst & Young LLP.

William T. Giles, 50

—

Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Finance, Information
Technology and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction

William T. Giles was elected Executive Vice President — Finance, Information Technology and Store
Development during fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer from June 2006 to December 2006 and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things,
Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he
was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Harry L. Goldsmith, 58—Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel, Customer
Satisfaction

Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary during
fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1996
and was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1993 to 1996.

Robert D. Olsen, 56—Executive Vice President

—

Store Operations, Commercial and Mexico, Customer
Satisfaction

Robert D. Olsen has been Executive Vice President

—

Store Operations, Commercial and Mexico since
fiscal 2007. Effective November 1, 2009, he was elected Corporate Development Officer, with primary
responsibility for Mexico, ALLDATA and other strategic initiatives. Previously, he was Executive
Vice President—Supply Chain, Information Technology, Mexico and Store Development since fiscal
2006 and before that, Senior Vice President since fiscal 2000 with primary responsibility for store
development and Mexico operations. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Olsen was Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Olsen held several positions
with AutoZone, including Controller, Vice President

—

Finance, and Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer.

James A. Shea, 64—Executive Vice President—Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain, Customer
Satisfaction

James A. Shea was elected Executive Vice President

—

Merchandising, Marketing and Supply Chain
during fiscal 2007 and has served as Executive Vice President—Merchandising and Marketing since
fiscal 2005. He was President and Co-founder of Portero during 2004. Prior to 2004, he was Chief
Executive Officer of Party City from 1999 to 2003. From 1995 to 1999, he was with Lechters
Housewares where he was Senior Vice President Marketing and Merchandising before being named
President in 1997. From 1990 to 1995, he was Senior Vice President of Home for Kaufmanns
Department Store, a division of May Company.

Jon A. Bascom

,


—

Senior Vice President—Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Jon A. Bascom was elected Senior Vice President—Chief Information Officer during fiscal 2008.
Previously, he was Vice President—Information Technology since 1996. Since 1989, Mr. Bascom has
worked in a variety of leadership roles in applications development, infrastructure, and technology
support. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Bascom worked for Malone & Hyde, AutoZone’s predecessor
company, for 9 years.

Timothy W. Briggs, 48

—

Senior Vice President—Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Timothy W. Briggs was elected Senior Vice President—Human Resources during fiscal 2006. Prior to
that, he was Vice President—Field Human Resources since March 2005. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Briggs
was Vice President—Organization Development. From 1996 to 2002, Mr. Briggs served in various management capacities at
the Limited Inc., including Vice President, Human Resources.



Mark A. Finestone

,


—

Senior Vice President—Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President—Merchandising during fiscal 2008. Previously,
he was Vice President—Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002, Mr. Finestone
worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which
included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising.

William W. Graves

,


—

Senior Vice President—Supply Chain, Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was elected Senior Vice President—Supply Chain during fiscal 2006. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President—Supply Chain since 2000. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in
various capacities with the Company.

Lisa R. Kranc, 56—Senior Vice President—Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President

—

Marketing during fiscal 2001. Previously, she was
Vice President

—

Marketing for Hannaford Bros. Co., a Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997, and was
Senior Vice President

—

Marketing for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1996, she was Vice
President-Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.

Thomas B. Newbern, 47—Senior Vice President—Store Operations, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President

—

Store Operations during fiscal 2007.
Previously, Mr. Newbern held the title Vice President—Store Operations for AutoZone since 1998. A
twenty-two year AutoZoner, he has held several key management positions with the Company.

Charlie Pleas, III, 44—Senior Vice President, Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during fiscal 2007. Prior to
that, he was Vice President, Controller since 2003. Previously, he was Vice President—Accounting
since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was
a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities from 1988.

Larry M. Roesel, 52—Senior Vice President—Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Larry M. Roesel joined AutoZone as Senior Vice President

—

Commercial during fiscal 2007. Mr. Roesel
came to AutoZone with more than thirty years of experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its
predecessor, where he served in operations, sales and general management.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks
that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results.
These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional
factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our
business.

Continued deterioration in the global credit markets, changes in our credit ratings and
macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These
investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest
rates and other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in
the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet
certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt and/or a decline in our earnings
could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result
in an increase in interest rates and more restrictive terms on certain of our senior debt and our
commercial paper, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions
willing to provide credit facilities to us and could significantly increase the interest rates on
such facilities from current levels.



Moreover, significant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions has
resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability of credit in global credit markets and in
higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms. During brief time intervals
in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008 and the first quarter of calendar 2009, there was no
liquidity in the commercial paper markets, resulting in an absence of commercial paper buyers and
extraordinary high interest rates on commercial paper. Persistent recessionary conditions around
the world could continue to affect the cost and availability of debt. We can provide no assurance
that credit market events such as those that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first
quarter of 2009 will not occur again in the foreseeable future. Conditions and events in the global
credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms
and cost of that debt.

Macroeconomic conditions also impact both our customers and our suppliers. Continued recessionary
conditions could result in additional job losses and business failures, which could result in our
loss of certain small business customers and curtailment of spending by our retail customers. In
addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business failures and other recessionary
conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to meet our
inventory demands. All of these macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our sales growth,
margins and overhead, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.

We may not be able to sustain our recent rate of sales growth.

We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 3,483 stores at
August 28, 2004, to 4,417 stores at August 29, 2009, an average store count increase per year of
5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $5.637
billion in fiscal 2004 to $6.817 billion in fiscal 2009, an average increase per year of 4%.
Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and increases in same-store sales. We
open new stores only after evaluating customer buying trends and market demand/needs, all of which
could be adversely affected by continued job losses, wage cuts, small business failures and
microeconomic conditions unique to the automotive industry. Some of our new store openings are
expected to be in Mexico, where legal and political factors can adversely affect our ability to
obtain sites or permits to operate new stores. Same store sales are impacted both by customer
demand levels and by the prices we are able to charge for our products, which can also be
negatively impacted by continued recessionary pressures. We cannot provide any assurance that we
will continue to open stores at historical rates or achieve increases in same-store sales.

Our business depends upon qualified employees.

At the end of fiscal 2009, our consolidated employee count was approximately 60,000. We cannot
assure that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do
not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality
of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates.

If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected.

Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors, including:

•

the number of miles vehicles are driven annually

. Higher vehicle mileage increases the
need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other
factors.

•

the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older

. These
vehicles are generally no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and
tend to need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles.

•

the weather

. Inclement weather may cause vehicle maintenance to be deferred.

•

the economy

. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and
commercial DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. Additionally, such
conditions may affect our customers’ credit availability. During periods of expansionary
economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their
cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles.



•

rising energy prices

. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer
purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay
for gasoline and other energy costs.

For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon:

•

the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the
length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles; and

•

restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the
original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation.

All of these factors could result in immediate and longer term declines in the demand for our
products, which could adversely affect our sales, cash flows and overall financial condition.

If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we
sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive and is based
on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location
and price. Competitors are opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a
supplier in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts
stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass
merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience
stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories,
tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer
service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection
and availability; product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength
of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may gain competitive
advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise,
longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are
unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more
effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.

If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales
growth may be limited.

Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase
commercial sales we must compete against national and regional auto parts chains, independently
owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops and auto dealers. Although we believe we
compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and
availability, price, product warranty and distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone
brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business
for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer
relationships and have large available inventories. If we are unable to profitably develop new
commercial customers, our sales growth may be limited.

Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business.

Recently some of our competitors have merged. Consolidation among our competitors could enhance
their financial position, provide them with the ability to achieve better purchasing terms allowing
them to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve
efficiencies in their mergers that allow for more effective use of advertising and marketing
dollars and allow them to more effectively compete for customers. These consolidated competitors
could take sales volume away from us in certain markets and could cause us to change our pricing
with a negative impact on our margins or could cause us to spend more money to maintain customers
or seek new customers, all of which could negatively impact our business.



War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either, may negatively impact availability of merchandise
and adversely impact our sales.

War or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our ability to
obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other
countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if
we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins
may be negatively affected.

In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may
be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers
and stores.

Rising energy prices may negatively impact our profitability.

As mentioned above, rising energy prices may impact demand for the products that we sell, overall
transaction count and our profitability. Higher energy prices impact our merchandise distribution,
commercial delivery, utility and product costs.

Our largest stockholder, as a result of its voting ownership, may have the ability to exert
substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders.

As of October 19, 2009, ESL Investments, Inc. and certain of its investment affiliates (together,
“ESL”) beneficially owned approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a
result, ESL may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or
approved by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any transactions involving a
change of control.

In the future, ESL may acquire or sell shares of common stock and thereby increase or decrease its
ownership stake in us. Significant fluctuations in their level of ownership could have an impact
on our share price.

In June 2008, we entered into an agreement with ESL (the “ESL Agreement”), in which ESL has agreed
to vote shares of our common stock owned by ESL in excess of 40% in the same proportion as all
non-ESL-owned shares are voted. Following the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company for
the fiscal year ending on August 29, 2009, the applicable percentage threshold is reduced from 40%
to 37.5% of the then outstanding common stock. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, the
Company added two directors in August 2008 that were identified by ESL. William C. Crowley, one
of the two appointed directors, is the President and Chief Operating Officer of ESL Investments,
Inc. The ESL Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.22 to this Form 10-K.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None

.

Item 2. Properties

The following table reflects the square footage and number of leased and owned properties for
our stores as of August 29, 2009:

No. of Stores

Square Footage

Leased

2,171

13,494,994

Owned

2,246

15,055,332

Total

4,417

28,550,326

We have 4.0 million square feet in distribution centers servicing our stores, of which
approximately 1.3 million square feet is leased and the remainder is owned. Our distribution
centers are located in Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas
and Mexico. Our primary store support center, which we own, is located in Memphis, Tennessee, and
consists of approximately 260,000 square feet. We also own and lease other properties that are not
material in the aggregate.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings

AutoZone, Inc. is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled “Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C.,
et al., v. AutoZone, Inc. et al.,” filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York in October 2004. The case was filed by more than 200 plaintiffs, which are principally
automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers (collectively “Plaintiffs”), against a
number of defendants, including automotive aftermarket retailers and aftermarket automotive parts
manufacturers. In the amended complaint, the plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that some or all of
the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants have knowingly received, in violation of the
Robinson-Patman Act (the “Act”), from various of the manufacturer defendants benefits such as
volume discounts, rebates, early buy allowances and other allowances, fees, inventory without
payment, sham advertising and promotional payments, a share in the manufacturers’ profits, benefits
of pay on scan purchases, implementation of radio frequency identification technology, and
excessive payments for services purportedly performed for the manufacturers. Additionally, a subset
of plaintiffs alleges a claim of fraud against the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants based
on discovery issues in a prior litigation involving similar Robinson-Patman Act claims. In the
prior litigation, the discovery dispute, as well as the underlying claims, were decided in favor of
AutoZone and the other automotive aftermarket retailer defendants who proceeded to trial, pursuant
to a unanimous jury verdict which was affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In the
current litigation, plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages (including statutory
trebling), attorneys’ fees, and a permanent injunction prohibiting the aftermarket retailer
defendants from inducing and/or knowingly receiving discriminatory prices from any of the
aftermarket manufacturer defendants and from opening up any further stores to compete with
plaintiffs as long as defendants allegedly continue to violate the Act. The Company believes this
suit to be without merit and is vigorously defending against it. The Company is unable to estimate
a loss or possible range of loss as of August 29, 2009. Defendants have filed motions to dismiss
all claims with prejudice on substantive and procedural grounds. Additionally, the Defendants have
sought to enjoin plaintiffs from filing similar lawsuits in the future. If granted in their
entirety, these dispositive motions would resolve the litigation in Defendants’ favor.

AutoZone is involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of our business.
Although the amount of liability that may result from these other proceedings cannot be
ascertained, we do not currently believe that, in the aggregate, they will result in liabilities
material to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

AutoZone’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AZO.” On October
19, 2009, there were 3,381 stockholders of record, which does not include the number of beneficial
owners whose shares were represented by security position listings.

We currently do not pay a cash dividend on our common stock. Any payment of dividends in the future
would be dependent upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings, cash flow and
other factors.

The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of common stock, as reported
by the New York Stock Exchange, for the periods indicated:

Price Range of Common Stock

High

Low

Fiscal Year Ended August 29, 2009:

Fourth quarter

$

164.38

$

141.00

Third quarter

$

169.99

$

129.21

Second quarter

$

145.77

$

92.52

First quarter

$

143.80

$

84.66

Fiscal Year Ended August 30, 2008:

Fourth quarter

$

142.49

$

110.39

Third quarter

$

126.85

$

108.89

Second quarter

$

132.44

$

103.07

First quarter

$

125.75

$

107.10

During 1998 the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its
outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum established by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The program was last amended in June 2009, to increase the repurchase authorization to $7.9 billion
from $7.4 billion. The program does not have an expiration date.

Shares of common stock repurchased by the Company during the quarter ended August 29, 2009, were as
follows:

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar

Shares Purchased

Value that May Yet

Total Number

Average

as Part of Publicly

Be Purchased

of Shares

Price Paid

Announced Plans

Under the Plans or

Period

Purchased

per Share

or Programs

Programs

May 10, 2009, to
June 6, 2009

437,000

$

155.54

437,000

$

828,506,506

June 7, 2009, to
July 4, 2009

1,783,355

$

155.45

1,783,355

551,279,167

July 5, 2009, to
August 1, 2009

1,204,593

$

153.87

1,204,593

365,934,289

August 2, 2009, to
August 29, 2009

386,308

$

147.17

386,308

309,082,914

Total

3,811,256

$

154.12

3,811,256

$

309,082,914



The Company also repurchased, at fair value, an additional 37,190 shares in fiscal 2009, 39,235
shares in fiscal 2008, and 65,152 shares in fiscal 2007 from employees electing to sell their stock
under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, qualified under
Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, under which all eligible employees may purchase
AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first
day or last day of each calendar quarter through payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual
purchases are $15,000 per employee or 10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the
plan, 29,147 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2009, 36,147 shares were sold to employees in
fiscal 2008, and 39,139 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2007. At August 29, 2009, 320,603
shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan. Under the Amended and
Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan all eligible executives are permitted to purchase AutoZone’s
common stock up to 25 percent of his or her annual salary and bonus. Purchases by executives under
this plan were 1,705 shares in fiscal 2009, 1,793 shares in fiscal 2008, and 1,257 shares in fiscal
2007. At August 29, 2009, 259,539 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under
this plan.

Stock Performance Graph

This graph shows, from the end of fiscal year 2004 to the end of fiscal year 2009, changes in the
value of $100 invested in each of the following: AutoZone’s common stock, Standard & Poor’s 500
Composite Index, and a peer group consisting of other automotive aftermarket retailers.

Company Name / Index

8/28/04

8/27/05

8/26/06

8/25/07

8/30/08

8/29/09

AutoZone, Inc.


126.66

115.72

163.56

182.10

196.99

S&P 500 Index


110.80

121.35

141.16

124.98

103.00

Peer Group


130.88

116.05

141.96

133.43

140.88

The peer group consists of Advance Auto Parts, Inc., CSK Auto Corporation (through 7/11/08),
Genuine Parts Company, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., and The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data

(in thousands, except per share data and selected

Fiscal Year Ended August

operating data

)


(2)


(1)(2)


(2)


(2)


(3)

Income Statement Data

Net sales

$

6,816,824

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

$

5,948,355

$

5,710,882

Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery
expenses

3,400,375

3,254,645

3,105,554

3,009,835

2,918,334

Gross profit

3,416,449

3,268,061

3,064,250

2,938,520

2,792,548

Operating, selling, general and administrative
expenses

2,240,387

2,143,927

2,008,984

1,928,595

1,816,884

Operating profit

1,176,062

1,124,134

1,055,266

1,009,925

975,664

Interest expense — net

142,316

116,745

119,116

107,889

102,443

Income before income taxes

1,033,746

1,007,389

936,150

902,036

873,221

Income taxes

376,697

365,783

340,478

332,761

302,202

Net income

$

657,049

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

$

571,019

Diluted earnings per share

$

11.73

$

10.04

$

8.53

$

7.50

$

7.18

Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted
earnings per share

55,992

63,875

69,844

75,859

79,508

Same Store Sales

Increase (decrease) in domestic comparable store net
sales

(4)

4.4

%

0.4

%

0.1

%

0.4

%

(2.1

)%

Balance Sheet Data

Current assets

$

2,561,730

$

2,586,301

$

2,270,455

$

2,118,927

$

1,929,459

Working capital (deficit)

(145,022

)

66,981

(15,439

)

64,359

118,300

Total assets

5,318,405

5,257,112

4,804,709

4,526,306

4,245,257

Current liabilities

2,706,752

2,519,320

2,285,895

2,054,568

1,811,159

Debt

2,726,900

2,250,000

1,935,618

1,857,157

1,861,850

Long-term capital leases

38,029

48,144

39,073

—

—

Stockholders’ equity (deficit)

$

(433,074

)

$

229,687

$

403,200

$

469,528

$

391,007

Selected Operating Data

Number of domestic stores at beginning of year

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

3,420

New stores






Closed stores






Net new stores






Relocated stores






Number of domestic stores at end of year

4,229

4,092

3,933

3,771

3,592

Number of Mexico stores at end of year






Number of total stores at end of year

4,417

4,240

4,056

3,871

3,673

Total store square footage (in thousands)

28,550

27,291

26,044

24,713

23,369

Average square footage per store

6,464

6,437

6,421

6,384

6,362

Increase in store square footage


%


%


%


%


%

Inventory per store

$


$


$


$


$


Average net sales per store (in thousands)

$

1,575

$

1,572

$

1,557

$

1,577

$

1,596

Average net sales per store square foot

$


$


$


$


$


Total employees at end of year (in thousands)






Merchandise under pay-on-scan arrangements (in
thousands)

$

3,530

$

6,732

$

22,387

$

92,142

$

151,682

Inventory turnover

(5)

1.5

x

1.6

x

1.6

x

1.7

x

1.8

x

Accounts payable to inventory ratio

96.0

%

95.0

%

93.2

%

92.0

%

92.5

%

After-tax return on invested capital

(6)

24.4

%

24.0

%

22.7

%

22.2

%

23.9

%

Adjusted debt to EBITDAR

(7)

2.5

2.2

2.1

2.1

2.1

Net cash provided by operating activities (in thousands)

$

923,808

$

921,100

$

845,194

$

822,747

$

648,083

Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt
(in
thousands)

(8)

$

673,347

$

690,621

$

678,522

$

599,507

$

432,210

(1)

Consisted of 53 weeks.

(2)

As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123 (R) in fiscal 2006, operating results include a
pre-tax non-cash expense for share-based compensation of $19.1 million in fiscal 2009, $18.4
million in fiscal 2008, $18.5 million in fiscal 2007, and $17.4 million in fiscal 2006.



(3)

Fiscal 2005 operating results include a $40.3 million pre-tax non-cash charge related to
lease accounting, which includes the impact on prior years and reflects additional
amortization of leasehold improvements and
additional rent expense, and a $21.3 million income tax benefit from the repatriation of
earnings from our Mexican operations and other discrete income tax items.

(4)

The domestic comparable sales increases (decreases) are based on sales for all domestic
stores open at least one year. Relocated Stores are included in the same store sales
computation based on the year the original store was opened. Closed store sales are included
in the same store sales computation up to the week it closes, and excluded from the
computation for all periods subsequent to closing.

(5)

Inventory turnover is calculated as cost of sales divided by the average merchandise
inventory balance over the year. The calculation includes cost of sales related to
pay-on-scan sales, which were $5.8 million for the 52 weeks ended August 29, 2009, $19.2
million for the 53 weeks ended August 30, 2008, $85.4 million for the 52 weeks ended August
25, 2007, $198.1 million for the 52 weeks ended August 26, 2006, and $234.6 million for the 52
weeks ended August 27, 2005.

(6)

After-tax return on invested capital is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding
rent charges) divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor to capitalize
operating leases). See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(7)

Adjusted debt to EBITDAR is calculated as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations
and annual rents times six; divided by net income plus interest, taxes, depreciation, rent and
stock option expenses. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(8)

Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt is calculated as the change in cash
and cash equivalents less the change in debt plus treasury stock purchases. See Reconciliation
of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.



Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

We are the nation’s leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and
accessories. We began operations in 1979 and at August 29, 2009, operated 4,229 stores in the
United States and Puerto Rico, and 188 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product
line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 29,
2009, in 2,303 of our stores we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial
credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair
garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We also sell the ALLDATA brand
automotive diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, we sell
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through
www.autozone.com, and as part of our commercial sales program, through www.autozonepro.com. We do
not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

Executive Summary

We achieved a solid performance in fiscal 2009, delivering record earnings of $657 million and
sales growth of $420 million over the prior year, excluding the 53

rd

week in last year’s
results. We completed the year with strong growth in our commercial and retail businesses. We are
excited about our retail business opportunities and encouraged by the increase in our commercial
business, where we continued to build our internal sales force and to refine our parts assortment.
There are various factors occuring within the current economy that affect both our customers and
our industry, including the credit crisis and higher unemployment, which we believe when combined
have aided our sales growth during the year. We continue to believe we are well positioned to help
our customers save money and meet their needs in a challenging macro economic environment.

The two statistics we believe have the closest correlation to our market growth over the long-term
are miles driven and the number of seven year old or older vehicles on the road. Miles driven
declined for the sixteenth straight month in March, were relatively flat in April and May before
increasing in June and July. We are optimistic that over the long-term this trend will stabilize
at low single digit increases as the number of vehicles on the road continues to increase.

New vehicle sales declined significantly during 2008 and the first half of 2009, which we believe
is contributing to an increasing number of “seven year old or older” vehicles on the road. In the
near term, we expect this trend to continue, as consumers keep their cars longer in an effort to
save money during this uncertain economy. Also, we believe gas prices impact our customers’
behavior with respect to driving and maintaining their cars. With approximately ten billion
gallons of unleaded gas consumed each month across the United States, each $1 dollar decrease at
the pump contributes approximately $10 billion of additional spending capacity to consumers each
month. During the summer of 2008, gas prices peaked at roughly $4 per gallon, before falling to $2
per gallon in February 2009. By the end of fiscal 2009, gas prices had risen to approximately
$2.61 per gallon.

During fiscal 2009, we worked hard to execute on several key initiatives as the macro environment
turned in our industry’s favor and we saw an increase in traffic in our stores.

We significantly enhanced the utilization of our hub stores by refining and improving the product
assortment in these locations while simultaneously increasing the delivery frequency to nearby
stores. We accelerated our store maintenance efforts and also deployed additional capital in areas
that we expect to yield benefits in the future, such as enhancing our IT infrastructure and
continued additions of late model products. We also began an effort to purchase more of our new
store locations rather than leasing them. Finally, we maintained our focus on developing a first
class Commercial field sales organization by continuing to expand the size of our team and
investing in training, tools and management programs.

In this challenging environment, we continue to see sales of maintenance and failure categories
perform well, while discretionary categories are being negatively impacted. Consequently, we
remain focused on refining and expanding our product assortment to ensure we have the “best”
merchandise at the “right” price in each of our merchandise categories.



Results of Operations

Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008

For the year ended August 29, 2009, AutoZone reported net sales of $6.817 billion compared with
$6.523 billion for the year ended August 30, 2008, a 4.5% increase from fiscal 2008. Excluding
$125.9 million of sales from the 53

rd

week included in the prior year, total company net
sales increased 6.6%. This growth was driven primarily by an increase in domestic same store sales
of 4.4% and sales from new stores of $165.5 million. The improvement in same store sales was
driven by an improvement in transaction count trends, while increases in average transaction value
remained generally consistent with our long-term trends. Higher transaction value is attributable
to product inflation due to both more complex, costly products and commodity price increases.

At August 29, 2009, we operated 4,229 domestic stores and 188 stores in Mexico, compared with 4,092
domestic stores and 148 stores in Mexico at August 30, 2008. Excluding the sales from the

rd

week in the prior year, domestic retail sales increased 7.1% and domestic
commercial sales increased 4.3%.

Gross profit for fiscal 2009 was $3.416 billion, or 50.1% of net sales, compared with $3.268
billion, or 50.1% of net sales for fiscal 2008. Gross profit as a percent of net sales was
positively impacted by favorable distribution costs from improved efficiencies and lower fuel
costs. However, this favorability was largely offset by a shift in mix to lower margin products.

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2009 increased to $2.240
billion, or 32.9% of net sales, from $2.144 billion, or 32.9% of net sales for fiscal 2008.
Leverage from increased sales was largely offset by expenses associated with our continued
enhancements to our hub stores, an acceleration of our store maintenance program, and a continued
expansion of our Commercial sales force.

Interest expense, net for fiscal 2009 was $142.3 million compared with $116.7 million during fiscal
2008. This increase was due to higher average borrowing levels over the comparable prior year
period and a higher percentage of fixed rate debt. Average borrowings for fiscal 2009 were $2.460
billion, compared with $2.024 billion for fiscal 2008 and weighted average borrowing rates were
5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.2% for fiscal 2008.

Our effective income tax rate was 36.4% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2009 compared to 36.3% for
fiscal 2008. Refer to “Note D — Income Taxes” for additional information regarding our income tax
rate.

Net income for fiscal 2009 increased by 2.4% to $657.0 million, and diluted earnings per share
increased 16.8% to $11.73 from $10.04 in fiscal 2008. The impact of the fiscal 2009 stock
repurchases on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2009 was an increase of approximately $0.78.
Excluding the additional week in the prior year, net income for the year increased 5.0% over the
previous year, while diluted earnings per share increased 19.7%.

Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007

For the year ended August 30, 2008, AutoZone reported net sales of $6.523 billion compared with
$6.170 billion for the year ended August 25, 2007, a 5.7% increase from fiscal 2007. This growth
was primarily driven by net sales of $166.6 million for fiscal 2008 from new stores, $125.9
million, or a 1.9% increase, from the addition of the 53

rd

week and a domestic same
store sales (excluding 53

rd

week) increase of 0.4%. At August 30, 2008, we operated
4,092 domestic stores and 148 in Mexico, compared with 3,933 domestic stores and 123 in Mexico at
August 25, 2007. The domestic same store sales increase was driven by higher average transaction
value, partially offset by lower transaction count. Higher transaction value was primarily
attributable to product price inflation due both to more complex, costly products and to commodity
price increases. Transaction counts were lower due to a combination of factors, including product
life cycles and deferred maintenance. Including the 53

rd

week, domestic retail sales
increased 4.5% and domestic commercial sales increased 6.8% from prior year. ALLDATA and Mexico
sales, including the 53

rd

week, increased over prior year, contributing 1.2 percentage
points of the total increase in net sales.

Gross profit for fiscal 2008 was $3.268 billion, or 50.1% of net sales, compared with $3.064
billion, or 49.7% of net sales, for fiscal 2007. The increase in gross profit as a percent of net
sales was primarily due to an approximately 50
basis point benefit from category management efforts, including increases in average retail prices
of products sold

and vendor supported promotional activities. These efforts were partially
offset by increased distribution expense principally relating to higher fuel costs.



Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2008 increased to $2.144
billion, or 32.9% of net sales, from $2.009 billion, or 32.6% of net sales for fiscal 2007.
Approximately 20 basis points of the increase in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was
due to higher employee medical expense driven by an increase in the number of catastrophic claims.
The remaining increase was primarily due to higher fuel expense for our commercial fleet from
increased fuel prices (approximately 6 basis points of the increase).

Interest expense, net for fiscal 2008 was $116.7 million compared with $119.1 million during fiscal
2007. This decrease was primarily due to lower short-term rates and was offset by higher average
borrowing levels over the comparable fiscal 2007 period and the impact of the additional week in
fiscal 2008. Average borrowings for fiscal 2008 were $2.024 billion, compared with $1.972 billion
for fiscal 2007. Weighted average borrowing rates were 5.2% at August 30, 2008, compared to 5.7%
at August 25, 2007.

Our effective income tax rate was 36.3% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2008 compared to 36.4% for
fiscal 2007.

Net income for fiscal 2008 increased by 7.7% to $641.6 million, and diluted earnings per share
increased 17.8% to $10.04 from $8.53 in fiscal 2007. The impact of the fiscal 2008 stock
repurchases on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2008 was an increase of approximately $0.29.
Excluding the additional week, net income for the year increased 5.1% over the previous year to
$625.8 million, while diluted earnings per share increased 14.9% to $9.80 per share.

Seasonality and Quarterly Periods

AutoZone’s business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales typically occurring in
the spring and summer months of March through September, in which average weekly per-store sales
historically have been about 15% to 25% higher than in the slower months of December through
February. During short periods of time, a store’s sales can be affected by weather conditions.
Extremely hot or extremely cold weather may enhance sales by causing parts to fail and spurring
sales of seasonal products. Mild or rainy weather tends to soften sales, as parts failure rates are
lower in mild weather, with elective maintenance deferred during periods of rainy weather. Over the
longer term, the effects of weather balance out, as we have stores throughout the United States,
Puerto Rico and Mexico.

Each of the first three quarters of AutoZone’s fiscal year consisted of 12 weeks, and the fourth
quarter consisted of 16 weeks in 2009, 17 weeks in 2008, and 16 weeks in 2007. Because the fourth
quarter contains the seasonally high sales volume and consists of 16 or 17 weeks, compared with 12
weeks for each of the first three quarters, our fourth quarter represents a disproportionate share
of the annual net sales and net income. The fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, containing 16
weeks, represented 32.7% of annual sales and 35.9% of net income; the fourth quarter of fiscal
2008, containing 17 weeks, represented 33.9% of annual sales and 38.0% of net income; and the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, containing 16 weeks, represented 32.5% of annual sales and 36.5% of
net income.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The primary source of our liquidity is our cash flows realized through the sale of automotive parts
and accessories. Net cash provided by operating activities was $923.8 million in fiscal 2009,
$921.1 million in fiscal 2008, and $845.2 million in fiscal 2007. The increase over prior year was
primarily due to the growth in net income and to a lesser extent, timing of income tax payments and
deductions, and improvements in our accounts payable to inventory ratio as our vendors continue to
finance a large portion of our inventory. Partially offsetting this increase were higher accounts
receivable and the 53

rd

week of income in last year’s sales. The increase in fiscal
2008 verses fiscal 2007 was due primarily to higher net income and an increase in our accounts
payable to inventory ratio. We had an accounts payable to inventory ratio of 96% at August 29,
2009, 95% at August 30, 2008, and 93% at August 25, 2007. Our inventory increases are primarily
attributable to an increased number of stores and to a lesser extent, our efforts to update product
assortment in all of our stores. Additionally, many of our vendors have supported our initiative
to update our product assortment by providing extended payment terms. These extended payment terms
have allowed us to grow accounts payable at a faster rate than inventory.



AutoZone’s primary capital requirement has been the funding of its continued new store development
program. From the beginning of fiscal 2007 to August 29, 2009, we have opened 551 new stores. Net
cash flows used in investing activities were $263.7 million in fiscal 2009, compared to $243.2
million in fiscal 2008, and $228.7 million in fiscal 2007. We invested $272.2 million in capital
assets in fiscal 2009, compared to $243.6 million in capital assets in fiscal 2008, and $224.5
million in capital assets in fiscal 2007. The increase in capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 was
primarily attributable to the types of stores opened and increased investment in our existing
stores. New store openings were 180 for fiscal 2009, 185 for fiscal 2008, and 186 for fiscal 2007.
We invest a portion of our assets held by the Company’s wholly owned insurance captive in
marketable securities. We acquired $48.4 million of marketable securities in fiscal 2009, $54.3
million in fiscal 2008, and $94.6 million in fiscal 2007. We had proceeds from matured marketable
securities of $46.3 million in fiscal 2009, $50.7 million in fiscal 2008, and $86.9 million in
fiscal 2007. Capital asset disposals provided $10.7 million in fiscal 2009, $4.0 million in fiscal
2008, and $3.5 million in fiscal 2007.

Net cash used in financing activities was $806.9 million in fiscal 2009, $522.7 million in fiscal
2008, and $621.4 million in fiscal 2007. The net cash used in financing activities reflected
purchases of treasury stock which totaled $1.3 billion for fiscal 2009, $849.2 million for fiscal
2008, and $761.9 million for fiscal 2007. The treasury stock purchases in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
2007 were primarily funded by cash flow from operations, and at times, by increases in debt levels.
Proceeds from issuance of debt were $500.0 million for fiscal 2009, $750.0 million for fiscal
2008, and none for fiscal 2007. Debt repayments totaled $300.7 million for fiscal 2009, $229.8
million for fiscal 2008, and $5.8 million for fiscal 2007. As discussed in “Note H-Financing”, in
July 2009, we issued $500.0 million in 5.75% Senior Notes due 2015. The proceeds from the issuance
of debt were used to repay outstanding commercial paper indebtedness, to prepay our $300 million
term loan in August 2009 and for general corporate purposes, including for working capital
requirements, capital expenditures, new store openings and stock repurchases. Net proceeds from
the issuance of commercial paper were $277.6 million for fiscal 2009 and $84.3 million for fiscal
2007. For fiscal 2008, net repayments of commercial paper were $206.7 million.

We expect to invest in our business consistent with historical rates during fiscal 2010, primarily
related to our new store development program and enhancements to existing stores and
infrastructure. In addition to the building and land costs, our new store development program
requires working capital, predominantly for inventories. Historically, we have negotiated extended
payment terms from suppliers, reducing the working capital required. We plan to continue leveraging
our inventory purchases; however, our ability to do so may be impacted by a prolonged tightening of
the credit markets which may directly limit our vendors’ capacity to factor their receivables from
us.

Depending on the timing and magnitude of our future investments (either in the form of leased or
purchased properties or acquisitions), we anticipate that we will rely primarily on internally
generated funds and available borrowing capacity to support a majority of our capital expenditures,
working capital requirements and stock repurchases. The balance may be funded through new
borrowings. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain such financing in view of our credit
rating and favorable experiences in the debt markets in the past.

Credit Ratings

At August 29, 2009, AutoZone had a senior unsecured debt credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of
BBB and a commercial paper rating of A-2. Moody’s Investors Service had assigned the Company a
senior unsecured debt credit rating of Baa2 and a commercial paper rating of P-2. Fitch Ratings
assigned the Company a BBB rating for senior unsecured debt and an F-2 rating for commercial paper.
As of August 29, 2009, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch had AutoZone listed as having a
“stable” outlook. If our credit ratings drop, our interest expense will increase; similarly, we
anticipate that our interest expense may decrease if our investment ratings are raised. If our
commercial paper ratings drop below current levels, we may have difficulty continuing to utilize
the commercial paper market and our interest expense will likely increase, as we will then be
required to access more expensive bank lines of credit. If our senior unsecured debt ratings drop
below investment grade, our access to financing may become more limited.



Debt Facilities

In July, 2009, we terminated our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to
expire in fiscal 2010, and replaced it with an $800 million revolving credit facility. This credit
facility is available to primarily support commercial paper borrowings, letters of credit and other
short-term unsecured bank loans. The credit facility may
be increased to $1.0 billion at AutoZone’s election and subject to bank credit capacity and
approval, may include up to $200 million in letters of credit, and may include up to $100 million
in capital leases each fiscal year. As the available balance is reduced by commercial paper
borrowings and certain outstanding letters of credit, the Company had $410.5 million in available
capacity under this facility at August 29, 2009. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined
Eurodollar rate plus the applicable percentage, which could range from 150 basis points to 450
basis points, depending upon our senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating.
This facility expires in July 2012.

During August 2009, we elected to prepay, without penalty, our $300 million bank term loan entered
in December 2004, and subsequently amended. The term loan facility provided for a term loan, which
consisted of, at our election, base rate loans, Eurodollar loans or a combination thereof. The
entire unpaid principal amount of the term loan was due and payable in full on December 23, 2009,
when the facility was scheduled to terminate. We entered into an interest rate swap agreement on
December 29, 2004, to effectively fix, based on current debt ratings, the interest rate of the term
loan at 4.4%. The outstanding liability associated with the interest rate swap totaled $3.6
million, and was expensed in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses upon
termination of the hedge in fiscal 2009.

On June 25, 2008, we entered into an agreement with ESL Investments, Inc. (the “ESL Agreement”),
setting forth certain understandings and agreements regarding the voting by ESL Investments, Inc.,
on behalf of itself and its affiliates (collectively, “ESL”), of certain shares of common stock of
AutoZone, Inc. and related matters. Among other things, we agreed to use our commercially
reasonable efforts to increase our adjusted debt/EBITDAR target ratio from 2.1:1 to 2.5:1 no later
than February 14, 2009. We met this commitment at February 14, 2009. We calculate adjusted debt
as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations and annual rent times six; and we calculate
EBITDAR by adding interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and stock option expenses to
net income. At August 29, 2009, our adjusted debt/EBITDAR ratio was 2.5:1. (The ESL agreement is
filed as Exhibit 10.22 to this Form 10-K).

On August 4, 2008, we issued $500 million in 6.50% Senior Notes due 2014 and $250 million in 7.125%
Senior Notes due 2018 under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 29, 2008 (the “Shelf Registration”). That shelf registration allowed us to sell
an indeterminate amount in debt securities to fund general corporate purposes, including repaying,
redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working capital, capital expenditures, new store
openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions.

On July 2, 2009, we issued $500 million in 5.75% Senior Notes due 2015 under the Shelf
Registration. We used the proceeds to pay down our commercial paper borrowings, to prepay in full
our $300 million term loan in August 2009, and the remainder for general corporate purposes,
including for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, new store openings and stock
repurchases.

The 6.50% and 7.125% Senior Notes issued during August 2008, and the 5.75% Senior Notes issued in
July 2009, are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes are
downgraded. They also contain a provision that repayment of the notes may be accelerated if
AutoZone experiences a change in control (as defined in the agreements). Our borrowings under our
other senior notes contain minimal covenants, primarily restrictions on liens. Under our other
borrowing arrangements, covenants include limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens,
a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a change of control provision that may require
acceleration of the repayment obligations under certain circumstances. All of the repayment
obligations under our borrowing arrangements may be accelerated and come due prior to the scheduled
payment date if covenants are breached or an event of default occurs.

The $800 million revolving credit agreement requires that our consolidated interest coverage ratio
as of the last day of each quarter shall be no less than 2.50:1. This ratio is defined as the
ratio of (i) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and rents to (ii) consolidated interest
expense plus consolidated rents. Our consolidated interest coverage ratio as of August 29, 2009
was 4.19:1. As of August 29, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants and expect to remain
in compliance with all covenants.



Stock Repurchases

During 1998, we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares
not to exceed a dollar maximum established by our Board of Directors. The program was last amended
in June 2009 to increase the repurchase authorization to $7.9 billion from $7.4 billion. From
January 1998 to August 29, 2009, we have repurchased a total of 115.4 million shares at an
aggregate cost of $7.6 billion. We repurchased 9.3 million shares of common stock at an aggregate
cost of $1.3 billion during fiscal 2009, 6.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of
$849.2 million during fiscal 2008, and 6.0 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of
$761.9 million during fiscal 2007.

From August 30, 2009 to October 26, 2009, we repurchased 1.2 million shares for $178.2 million.

Financial Commitments

The following table shows AutoZone’s significant contractual obligations as of August 29, 2009:

Total

Payment Due by Period

Contractual

Less than

Between

Between

Over 5

(in thousands)

Obligations

1 year

1-3 years

4-5 years

years

Long-term debt (1)

$

2,726,900

$

277,600

$

199,300

$

1,000,000

$

1,250,000

Interest payments (2)

780,175

145,338

276,425

220,237

138,175

Operating leases (3)

1,558,027

177,781

319,650

251,149

809,447

Capital leases (4)

55,703

16,932

30,132

8,639

—

Self-insurance reserves (5)

153,602

54,307

44,840

23,673

30,782

Construction commitments

18,749

18,749

—

—

—

$

5,293,156

$

690,707

$

870,347

$

1,503,698

$

2,228,404

(1)

Long-term debt balances represent principal maturities, excluding interest.

(2)

Represents obligations for interest payments on long-term debt.

(3)

Operating lease obligations are inclusive of amounts accrued within deferred rent and closed
store obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.

(4)

Capital lease obligations include related interest.

(5)

The Company retains a significant portion of the risks associated with workers compensation,
employee health, general and product liability, property, and vehicle insurance. These
amounts represent estimates based on actuarial calculations. Although these obligations do
not have scheduled maturities, the timing of future payments are predictable based upon
historical patterns. Accordingly, the Company reflects the net present value of these
obligations in its consolidated balance sheets.

We have Pension obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheet that are not reflected in
the table above due to the absence of scheduled maturities and the nature of the account. As
disclosed in “Note K — Pension and Savings Plans”, our pension liability is $185.6 million and our
pension assets are $115.3 million at August 29, 2009.

Additionally, as disclosed in “Note D — Income Taxes”, our tax liability for uncertain tax
positions, including interest and penalties, was $56.6 million at August 29, 2009. Approximately
$25.9 million is classified as short term and $30.7 million is classified as long term. We did not
reflect these obligations in the Financial Commitments table as we are unable to make an estimate
of the timing of payments due to uncertainties in the timing of the settlement of these tax
positions.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table reflects outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds as of August 29, 2009.

Total

Other

(in thousands)

Commitments

Standby letters of credit

$

111,904

Surety bonds

14,818

$

126,722

A substantial portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on
an annual basis) and surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’
compensation carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with them as the
underlying liabilities are already reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters
of credit and surety bonds arrangements expire within one year, but have automatic renewal clauses.

In conjunction with our commercial sales program, we offer credit to some of our commercial
customers. Historically, certain of the receivables related to this credit program were sold to a
third party at a discount for cash with limited recourse. At August 30, 2008, we had $55.4 million
outstanding under this program. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, AutoZone terminated its
agreement to sell receivables to a third party. There were no amounts outstanding under this
program as of August 29, 2009.

Value of Pension Assets

At August 29, 2009, the fair market value of AutoZone’s pension assets was $115.3 million, and the
related accumulated benefit obligation was $185.6 million based on an August 29, 2009 measurement
date. On January 1, 2003, our defined benefit pension plans were frozen. Accordingly, plan
participants earn no new benefits under the plan formulas, and no new participants may join the
plans. The material assumptions for fiscal 2009 are an expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets of 8.0% and a discount rate of 6.24%. For additional information regarding AutoZone’s
qualified and non-qualified pension plans refer to “Note K — Pension and Savings Plans” in the
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

“Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” include certain financial measures not derived in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP financial measures provide additional
information for determining our optimum capital structure and are used to assist management in
evaluating performance and in making appropriate business decisions to maximize stockholders’
value.

Non-GAAP financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or
considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position
or cash flows. However, we have presented the non-GAAP financial measures, as we believe they
provide additional information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the
Company’s comparative year-to-year operating results. Furthermore, our management and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors use the above-mentioned non-GAAP financial measures to analyze
and compare our underlying operating results and to determine payments of performance-based
compensation. We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP
measures in the following reconciliation tables.



Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Cash Flow Before Share Repurchases and Changes in
Debt

The following table reconciles net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents to cash flow
before share repurchases and changes in debt, which is presented in the “Selected Financial Data”.

(in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended August






Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

$

(149,755

)

$

155,807

$

(4,904

)

$

16,748

$

(2,042

)

Less: Increase (decrease) in debt

476,900

314,382

78,461

(4,693

)

(7,400

)

Less: Share repurchases

(1,300,002

)

(849,196

)

(761,887

)

(578,066

)

(426,852

)

Cash flow before share repurchases and
changes in debt

$

673,347

$

690,621

$

678,522

$

599,507

$

432,210

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: After-Tax Return on Invested Capital

The following table reconciles the percentages of after-tax return on invested capital, or “ROIC.”
After-tax return on invested capital is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding rent)
divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor to capitalize operating leases). The
ROIC percentages are presented in the “Selected Financial Data”.

(in thousands, except percentage data)

Fiscal Year Ended August






Net income

$

657,049

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

$

571,019

Adjustments:

After-tax interest

90,456

74,355

75,793

68,089

65,533

After-tax rent

115,239

105,166

97,050

90,808

96,367

After-tax return

$

862,744

$

821,127

$

768,515

$

728,172

$

732,919

Average debt (1)

$

2,477,233

$

2,015,186

$

1,955,652

$

1,909,011

$

1,969,639

Average equity (2)

(82,006

)

353,411

478,853

510,657

316,639

Rent x 6 (3)

1,087,848

990,726

915,138

863,328

774,706

Average capital lease obligations (4)

58,512

60,824

30,538

—

—

Pre-tax invested capital

$

3,541,587

$

3,420,147

$

3,380,181

$

3,282,996

$

3,060,984

ROIC

24.4

%

24.0

%

22.7

%

22.2

%

23.9

%

(1)

Average debt is equal to the average of our long-term debt measured at the end of the prior
fiscal year and each of the 13 fiscal periods in the current fiscal year.

(2)

Average equity is equal to the average of our stockholders’ equity measured at the end of the
prior fiscal year and each of the 13 fiscal periods of the current fiscal year.

(3)

Rent is multiplied by a factor of six to capitalize operating leases in the determination of
pre-tax invested capital. This calculation excludes the impact from the cumulative lease
accounting adjustments recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.

(4)

Average of the capital lease obligations relating to vehicle capital leases entered into at
the beginning of fiscal 2007 is computed as the average over the trailing 13 periods. Rent
expense associated with the vehicles prior to the conversion to capital leases is included in
the rent for purposes of calculating return on invested capital.



Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation, Rent and Options Expense “EBITDAR”

The following table reconciles the ratio of adjusted debt to EBITDAR. Adjusted debt to EBITDAR is
calculated as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations and annual rents times six; divided
by net income plus interest, taxes, depreciation, rent and stock option expenses. The adjusted debt
to EBITDAR ratios are presented in the “Selected Financial Data”.

(in thousands, except for Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR

)

Adjusted Debt / EBITDAR

August 29, 2009

August 30, 2008

August 25, 2007

August 26, 2006

August 27, 2005

Net income

$

657,049

$

641,606

$

595,672

$

569,275

$

571,019

Add: Interest

142,316

116,745

119,116

107,889

102,443

Taxes

376,697

365,783

340,478

332,761

302,202

EBIT

$

1,176,062

$

1,124,134

$

1,055,266

$

1,009,925

$

975,664

Add: Depreciation

180,433

169,509

159,411

139,465

135,597

Rent expense (1)

181,308

165,121

152,523

143,888

150,645

Option expense

19,135

18,388

18,462

17,370

—

EBITDAR

$

1,556,938

$

1,477,152

$

1,385,662

$

1,310,648

$

1,261,906

Debt

$

2,726,900

$

2,250,000

$

1,935,618

$

1,857,157

$

1,861,850

Capital lease obligations

54,764

64,061

55,088

—

—

Add: Rent x 6

1,087,848

990,726

915,138

863,328

774,708

Adjusted debt

$

3,869,512

$

3,304,787

$

2,905,844

$

2,720,485

$

2,636,558

Adjusted Debt / EBITDAR

2.5

2.2

2.1

2.1

2.1

(1)

Fiscal 2005 rent expense includes a $21.5 million non-cash adjustment associated with
accounting for leases and leasehold improvements.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Fiscal 2008 Results Excluding Impact of

rd

Week:

The following table summarizes the favorable impact of the additional week of the 53 week fiscal
year ended August 30, 2008.

(in thousands, except per share and percentage data)

Fiscal 2008

Results of

Fiscal 2008

Results of

Operations

Results of

Percent of

Operations for

Excluding

Percent of

Operations

Revenue


rd

Week


rd

Week

Revenue

Net sales

$

6,522,706

100.0

%

$

(125,894

)

$

6,396,812

100.0

%

Cost of sales

3,254,645

49.9

%

(62,700

)

3,191,945

49.9

%

Gross profit

3,268,061

50.1

%

(63,194

)

3,204,867

50.1

%

Operating expenses

2,143,927

32.9

%

(36,087

)

2,107,840

32.9

%

Operating profit

1,124,134

17.2

%

(27,107

)

1,097,027

17.2

%

Interest expense, net

116,745

1.8

%

(2,340

)

114,405

1.8

%

Income before income taxes

1,007,389

15.4

%

(24,767

)

982,622

15.4

%

Income taxes

365,783

5.6

%

(8,967

)

356,816

5.6

%

Net income

$

641,606

9.8

%

$

(15,800

)

$

625,806

9.8

%

Diluted earnings per share

$

10.04

$

(0.24

)

$

9.80



Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Statement No.
158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158 requires plan
sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans (collectively
postretirement benefit plans) to: recognize the funded status of their postretirement benefit plans
in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan assets and benefit
obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial position, and provide
additional disclosures.

On August 25, 2007, we adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions and on August 31, 2008, we
adopted the measurement date provisions. The adoption of these provisions had no material effect
on our consolidated financial statements. Refer to “Note K-Pension and Savings Plans” for further
description of these adoptions.

On August 31, 2008, we adopted, FASB Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
This new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally
accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. There is a
one-year deferral of the adoption of this standard as it relates to nonfinancial assets and
liabilities. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”). This
standard significantly changes the accounting for and reporting of business combinations in
consolidated financial statements. Among other things, SFAS 141R requires the acquiring entity in
a business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
at the acquisition date and requires the expensing of
most transaction and restructuring costs. The standard is effective for us beginning August 30,
2009 and is applicable only to transactions occurring after the effective date.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133,” (“SFAS 161”). SFAS 161 amends SFAS No. 133 to improve
the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities by providing enhanced
disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and
related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations, and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial
performance, and cash flows. The adoption of SFAS 161 did not have a material impact on our
financial statements.

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 107-1 (“FSP 107-1”) and Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 28-1 (“APB 28-1”), “Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments,” amending the disclosure requirements in SFAS 107 and APB Opinion 28. FSP 107-1 and
APB 28-1 require disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting
periods in addition to annual reporting periods. These disclosures will be required commencing
with our fiscal quarter beginning August 30, 2009.

In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, “Subsequent Events” (“SFAS 165”), which establishes
general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet
date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. Specifically, SFAS
165 sets forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management of a reporting
entity should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or
disclosure in the financial statements, the circumstances under which an entity should recognize
events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements and the
disclosures that an entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance
sheet date. We adopted SFAS 165 on August 29, 2009, and it had no impact on our consolidated
financial statements. Management has evaluated subsequent events through the date these financial
statements were issued.

In June 2009, the FASB voted to approve the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification)
as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. The Codification will be effective for us commencing with our fiscal quarter beginning
August 30, 2009. The FASB Codification does not change U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, but combines all authoritative standards such as those issued
by the FASB, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Emerging Issues Task Force
into a comprehensive topically organized online database.



Critical Accounting Estimates

Preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions
affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements,
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and related disclosures of
contingent liabilities. In the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we describe our
significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our
policies are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are drawn from historical experience and other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ
under different assumptions or conditions. Our senior management has identified the critical
accounting policies for the areas that are materially impacted by estimates and assumptions and
have discussed such policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The following
items in our consolidated financial statements require significant estimation or judgment:

Inventory Reserves and cost of sales

LIFO

We state our inventories at the lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”)
method for domestic merchandise and the first-in, first out (FIFO) method for Mexico inventories.
Due to price deflation on our merchandise purchases, our domestic inventory balances are
effectively maintained under the FIFO method. We do not write up inventory for favorable LIFO
adjustments, and due to price deflation, LIFO costs of our domestic inventories exceed replacement
costs by $223.0 million at August 29, 2009, calculated using the dollar value method.

Inventory Obsolescence and Shrinkage

Our inventory, primarily hard parts, maintenance items and accessories/non-automotive products, is
used on vehicles that have rather long lives; and therefore, the risk of obsolescence is minimal
and the majority of excess inventory has historically been returned to our vendors for credit. In
the isolated instances where less than full credit will be received for such returns and where we
anticipate that items will be sold at retail prices that are less than recorded costs, we record a
charge (less than $15 million in each of the last three years) through cost of sales for the
difference. These charges are based on management’s judgment, including estimates and assumptions
regarding marketability of products and the market value of inventory to be sold in future periods.

Historically, we have not encountered material exposure to inventory obsolescence or excess
inventory, nor have we experienced material changes to our estimates. However, we may be exposed
to material losses should our vendors alter their policy with regard to accepting excess inventory
returns.

Additionally, we reduce inventory for projected losses related to shrinkage, which is estimated
based on historical losses and current inventory loss trends resulting from previous physical
inventories. Shrinkage may occur due to theft, loss or inaccurate records for the receipt of
goods, among other things. Throughout the year, we take physical inventory counts of our stores
and distribution centers to verify these estimates. We make assumptions regarding upcoming
physical inventory counts that may differ from actual results. Over the last three years, there
has been less than a 25 basis point fluctuation in our shrinkage rate.

Each quarter, we evaluate the accrued shrinkage in light of the actual shrink results. To the
extent our actual physical inventory count results differ from our estimates, we may experience
material adjustments to our financial statements. Historically, we have not experienced material
adjustments to our shrinkage estimates and do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that
there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use.

A 10% difference in our inventory reserves as of August 29, 2009, would have affected net income by
approximately $3 million in fiscal 2009.



Vendor allowances

AutoZone receives various payments and allowances from its vendors through a variety of programs
and arrangements, including allowances for warranties, advertising and general promotion of vendor
products. Vendor allowances are treated as a reduction of inventory, unless they are provided as a
reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in selling the
vendor’s products. Approximately 90% of the vendor funds received are recorded as a reduction of
the cost of inventories and recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as these inventories are
sold.

Based on our vendor agreements, a significant portion of vendor funding we receive is based on our
inventory purchases. Therefore, we record receivables for funding not yet received as we purchase
inventory. During the year, we regularly review the receivables from vendors to ensure vendors are
able to meet their obligations. We have not recorded a reserve against these receivables as we
have legal right of offset with our vendors for payments owed them. Historically, we have had
minimal write-offs (less than $100 thousand in any of the last three years) and these write-offs
were due to severed relationships.

Self-Insurance

We retain a significant portion of the risks associated with workers’ compensation, vehicle,
employee health, general and products liability and property losses; and we obtain third party
insurance to limit the exposure related to certain of these risks. Our self-insurance reserve
estimates totaled $158 million, $145 million, and $133 million as of the end of fiscal years 2009,
2008, and 2007, respectively. These increases are primarily reflective of our growing operations,
including inflation and increases in vehicles and the number of hours worked.

The assumptions made by management in estimating our self-insurance reserves include consideration
of historical cost experience, judgments about the present and expected levels of cost per claim
and retention levels. We utilize various methods, including analyses of historical trends and
actuarial methods, to estimate the cost to settle reported claims, and claims incurred, but not yet
reported. The actuarial methods develop estimates of the future ultimate claim costs based on the
claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. When estimating these liabilities, we consider
factors, such as the severity, duration and frequency of claims, legal costs associated with
claims, healthcare trends, and projected inflation of related factors. In recent history, we have
experienced improvements in frequency and duration of claims; however, medical and wage inflation
have partially offset these trends. Throughout this time, our methods for determining our exposure
have remained consistent, and these trends have been appropriately factored into our reserve
estimates.

Management believes that the various assumptions developed and actuarial methods used to determine
our self- insurance reserves are reasonable and provide meaningful data and information that
management uses to make its best estimate of our exposure to these risks. Arriving at these
estimates, however, requires a significant amount of subjective judgment by management, and as a
result these estimates are uncertain and our actual exposure may be different from our estimates.
For example, changes in our assumptions about health care costs, the severity of accidents and the
incidence of illness, the average size of claims and other factors could cause actual claim costs
to vary materially from our assumptions and estimates, causing our reserves to be overstated or
understated. For instance, a 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net
income by approximately $10 million for fiscal 2009.

As we obtain additional information and refine our methods regarding the assumptions and estimates
we use to recognize liabilities incurred, we will adjust our reserves accordingly. In recent
years, we have experienced favorable claims development, particularly related to workers
compensation, and have adjusted our estimates accordingly. We attribute this success to programs,
such as return to work and projects aimed at accelerating claims closure. The programs have
matured and proven to be successful and are therefore considered in our current and future
assumptions regarding claims costs.

Our liabilities for workers compensation, certain general and product liability, property and
vehicle claims do not have scheduled maturities; however, the timing of future payments is
predictable based on historical patterns and is relied upon in determining the current portion of
these liabilities. Accordingly, we reflect the net present value of these obligations in our
balance sheet using the risk-free interest rate as of the balance sheet date. If the discount rate
used to calculate present value of these reserves changed by 50 basis points, net income would have
changed
approximately $2 million at August 29, 2009. Our liability for health benefits is classified as
current, as the historical average duration of claims is approximately six weeks.



Income Taxes

Our income tax returns are audited by state, federal and foreign tax authorities, and we are
typically engaged in various tax examinations at any given time. Tax contingencies often arise due
to uncertainty or differing interpretations of the application of tax rules throughout the various
jurisdictions in which we operate. The contingencies are influenced by items such as tax audits,
changes in tax laws, litigation, appeals and experience with previous similar tax positions. We
regularly review our tax reserves for these items and assess the adequacy of the amount we have
recorded. As of August 29, 2009, we had approximately $56.6 million reserved for uncertain tax
positions.

We evaluate potential exposures associated with our various tax filings in accordance with FIN 48
by estimating a liability for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step
is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence
indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to
estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be
realized upon ultimate settlement.

We believe our estimates to be reasonable and have not experienced material adjustments to our
reserves in the previous three years; however, actual results could differ from our estimates and
we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Specifically, management has used
judgment and made assumptions to estimate the likely outcome of certain tax positions.
Additionally, to the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or
must pay in excess of recognized reserves, our effective tax rate in any particular period could be
materially affected.

Pension Obligation

Prior to January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a defined benefit
pension plan. The benefits under the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest
consecutive five-year average compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly,
pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants
will join the pension plan. On January 1, 2003, the Company’s supplemental defined benefit pension
plan for certain highly compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will
earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan. As
the plan benefits are frozen, the annual pension expense and recorded liabilities are not impacted
by increases in future compensation levels, but are impacted by the use of two key assumptions in
the calculation of these balances:

i.

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:

As described more fully in “Note K —
Pension and Savings Plans”, we have assumed an 8% long-term rate of return on our plan
assets. This estimate is a judgmental matter in which management considers the composition
of our asset portfolio, our historical long-term investment performance and current market
conditions. We review the expected long-term rate of return on an annual basis, and revise
it accordingly. Additionally, we monitor the mix of investments in our portfolio to ensure
alignment with our long-term strategy to manage pension cost and reduce volatility in our
assets. At August 29, 2009, our plan assets totaled $115 million in our qualified plan. We
have no assets in our nonqualified plan. A 50 basis point change in our expected long term
rate of return would impact annual pension expense/income by approximately $570 thousand for
the qualified plan.

ii.

Discount rate used to determine benefit obligations:

This rate is highly sensitive and
is adjusted annually based on the interest rate for long-term high-quality corporate bonds
as of the measurement date using yields for maturities that are in line with the duration of
our pension liabilities. This same discount rate is also used to determine pension expense
for the following plan year. For fiscal 2009, we assumed a discount rate of 6.24%. A
decrease in the discount rate increases pension expense. A 50 basis point change in the
discount rate at August 29, 2009 would impact annual pension expense/income by approximately
$1.9 million for the qualified plan and $30 thousand for the nonqualified plan.



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

AutoZone is exposed to market risk from, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign
exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, we use various financial instruments to reduce
interest rate and fuel price risks. To date, based upon our current level of foreign operations, no
derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk. All of our hedging
activities are governed by guidelines that are authorized by our Board of Directors. Further, we do
not buy or sell financial instruments for trading purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

AutoZone’s financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times, we
reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate hedge
instruments such as interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting
interest rate swaps.

AutoZone has historically utilized interest rate swaps to convert variable rate debt to fixed rate
debt and to lock in fixed rates on future debt issuances. We reflect the current fair value of all
interest rate hedge instruments in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other assets
or liabilities. All of the Company’s interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow
hedges. We had an outstanding interest rate swap with a negative fair value of $4.3 million at
August 30, 2008, to effectively fix the interest rate on the $300 million term loan entered into
during December 2004. During the current fiscal year, we prepaid the term loan and terminated the
interest rate swap; as a result, at August 29, 2009, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps.

Unrealized gains and losses on interest rate hedges are deferred in stockholders’ equity as a
component of other comprehensive income or loss. These deferred gains and losses are recognized in
income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash flows
being hedged are recognized in expense. However, to the extent that the change in value of an
interest rate hedge instrument does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the cash flow
being hedged, that ineffective portion is immediately recognized in income. For further
discussion, see “Note G-Derivative Financial Instruments”.

The fair value of our debt was estimated at $2.853 billion as of August 29, 2009, and $2.235
billion as of August 30, 2008, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt
issues or on the current rates available to AutoZone for debt having the same remaining maturities.
Such fair value is greater than the carrying value of debt by $126.5 million at August 29, 2009,
and less than the carrying value of debt by $15.0 million at August 30, 2008. We had $277.6
million of variable rate debt outstanding at August 29, 2009, and considering the effect of the
interest rate swap designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, no variable rate debt outstanding
at August 30, 2008. In fiscal 2009, at this borrowing level for variable rate debt, a one
percentage point increase in interest rates would have had an unfavorable impact on our pre-tax
earnings and cash flows of $2.8 million, which includes the effects of the interest rate swap. The
primary interest rate exposure on variable rate debt is based on LIBOR. We had outstanding fixed
rate debt of $2.449 billion at August 29, 2009, and considering the effect of the interest rate
swap designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, $2.250 billion at August 30, 2008. A one
percentage point increase in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our fixed rate debt by
$105.9 million at August 29, 2009, and $90.7 million at August 30, 2008.

Fuel Price Risk

Fuel swap contracts that we utilize have not previously been designated as hedging instruments
under the provisions of SFAS 133 and thus do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, although
the instruments were executed to economically hedge a portion of our diesel and unleaded fuel
exposure. In fiscal year 2009, we entered into fuel swaps to economically hedge a portion of our
unleaded fuel exposure. We did not enter into any fuel swap contracts during the 2008 fiscal year
and during fiscal year 2007, we entered into fuel swaps to economically hedge a portion of our
unleaded and diesel fuel exposures. As of August 29, 2009, we had an outstanding liability of less
than one hundred thousand dollars associated with our unleaded fuel swap and no outstanding fuel
swap contracts at August 25, 2007. The swaps during fiscal years 2009 and 2007 had no significant
impact on our results of operations in either year.



Foreign Currency Risk

Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions include firm commitments and anticipated
transactions denominated in a currency other than an entity’s functional currency. The Company and
its subsidiaries generally enter into transactions denominated in their respective functional
currencies. Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency are not material.

The Company’s primary foreign currency exposure arises from Mexican peso-denominated revenues and
profits and their translation into U.S. dollars. The Company generally views as long-term its
investments in the Mexican subsidiaries, which have the Mexican peso as the functional currency.
As a result, the Company generally does not hedge these net investments. The net investment in
Mexican subsidiaries translated into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rates was $215.4
million at August 29, 2009 and $160.8 million at August, 30, 2008. The potential loss in value of
the Company’s net investment in Mexican subsidiaries resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent
adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates at August 29, 2009 and August, 30, 2008
amounted to $19.6 million and $14.6 million, respectively. This change would be reflected in the
foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the
equity section of the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets, unless the Mexican subsidiaries are
sold or otherwise disposed.

During 2009, exchange rates with respect to the Mexican peso decreased by approximately 30% with
respect to the U.S. dollar. The resulting foreign currency translation losses are recorded as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Quarterly Summary (unaudited)




Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended). Our internal control over financial reporting includes, among other things,
defined policies and procedures for conducting and governing our business, sophisticated
information systems for processing transactions and properly trained staff. Mechanisms are in place
to monitor the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including regular
testing performed by the Company’s internal audit team, which is comprised of both Deloitte &
Touche LLP professionals and Company personnel. Actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they
are identified. Our procedures for financial reporting include the active involvement of senior
management, our Audit Committee and a staff of highly qualified financial and legal professionals.

Management, with the participation of our principal executive and financial officers, assessed our
internal control over financial reporting as of August 29, 2009, the end of our fiscal year.
Management based its assessment on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).

Based on this assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of August 29, 2009.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, audited the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young has issued its report concurring with
management’s assessment, which is included in this Annual Report.

Certifications

Compliance with NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards

On January 5, 2009, the Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO
Certification required pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company
Manual.

Rule 13a-

14(a)

Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer

The Company has filed, as exhibits to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
August 29, 2009, the certifications of its Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
Officer required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2004.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.

We have audited AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of August 29, 2009,
based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). AutoZone, Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, AutoZone, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of August 29, 2009, based on the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 29, 2009 and
August 30, 2008 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity (deficit),
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 29, 2009 of AutoZone, Inc.
and our report dated October 26, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Memphis, Tennessee

October 26, 2009



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 29,
2009 and August 30, 2008 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity
(deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 29, 2009. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 29, 2009 and August
30, 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended August 29, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note D to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109,” effective August 26, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of August 29,
2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated October 26,
2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Memphis, Tennessee

October 26, 2009



Consolidated Statements of Income

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,




(in thousands, except per share data)

(52 Weeks)

(53 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

Net sales

$

6,816,824

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery expenses

3,400,375

3,254,645

3,105,554

Gross profit

3,416,449

3,268,061

3,064,250

Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses

2,240,387

2,143,927

2,008,984

Operating profit

1,176,062

1,124,134

1,055,266

Interest expense, net

142,316

116,745

119,116

Income before income taxes

1,033,746

1,007,389

936,150

Income taxes

376,697

365,783

340,478

Net income

$

657,049

$

641,606

$

595,672

Weighted average shares for basic earnings per share

55,282

63,295

69,101

Effect of dilutive stock equivalents




Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted earnings per share

55,992

63,875

69,844

Basic earnings per share

$

11.89

$

10.14

$

8.62

Diluted earnings per share

$

11.73

$

10.04

$

8.53



Consolidated Balance Sheets

August 29,

August 30,

(in thousands, except per share data)



Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

92,706

$

242,461

Accounts receivable

126,514

71,241

Merchandise inventories

2,207,497

2,150,109

Other current assets

135,013

122,490

Total current assets

2,561,730

2,586,301

Property and equipment:

Land

656,516

643,699

Buildings and improvements

1,900,610

1,814,668

Equipment

887,521

850,679

Leasehold improvements

219,606

202,098

Construction in progress

145,161

128,133

3,809,414

3,639,277

Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization

1,455,057

1,349,621

2,354,357

2,289,656

Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization

302,645

302,645

Deferred income taxes

59,067

38,283

Other long-term assets

40,606

40,227

402,318

381,155

$

5,318,405

$

5,257,112

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

2,118,746

$

2,043,271

Accrued expenses and other

381,271

327,664

Income taxes payable

35,145

11,582

Deferred income taxes

171,590

136,803

Total current liabilities

2,706,752

2,519,320

Long-term debt

2,726,900

2,250,000

Other liabilities

317,827

258,105

Commitments and Contingencies

—

—

Stockholders’ equity (deficit):

Preferred stock, authorized 1,000 shares; no shares issued

—

—

Common stock, par value $.01 per share, authorized 200,000 shares; 57,881
shares issued and 50,801 shares outstanding in 2009 and 63,600
shares issued and 59,608 shares outstanding in 2008



Additional paid-in capital

549,326

537,005

Retained earnings

136,935

206,099

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(92,035

)

(4,135

)

Treasury stock, at cost

(1,027,879

)

(509,918

)

Total stockholders’ equity (deficit)

(433,074

)

229,687

$

5,318,405

$

5,257,112

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,




(in thousands)

(52 Weeks)

(53 Weeks)

(52 Weeks)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

657,049

$

641,606

$

595,672

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment

180,433

169,509

159,411

Amortization of debt origination fees

3,644

1,837

1,719

Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

(8,407

)

(10,142

)

(16,523

)

Deferred income taxes

46,318

67,474

24,844

Share-based compensation expense

19,135

18,388

18,462

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(56,823

)

(11,145

)

20,487

Merchandise inventories

(76,337

)

(137,841

)

(160,780

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

137,158

175,733

186,228

Income taxes payable

32,264

(3,861

)

17,587

Other, net

(10,626

)

9,542

(1,913

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

923,808

921,100

845,194

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures

(272,247

)

(243,594

)

(224,474

)

Purchase of marketable securities

(48,444

)

(54,282

)

(94,615

)

Proceeds from sale of investments

46,306

50,712

86,921

Disposal of capital assets

10,663

4,014

3,453

Net cash used in investing activities

(263,722

)

(243,150

)

(228,715

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Net (repayments of) proceeds from commercial paper

277,600

(206,700

)

84,300

Proceeds from issuance of debt

500,000

750,000

—

Repayment of debt

(300,700

)

(229,827

)

(5,839

)

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

39,855

27,065

58,952

Purchase of treasury stock

(1,300,002

)

(849,196

)

(761,887

)

Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

8,407

10,142

16,523

Payments of capital lease obligations

(17,040

)

(15,880

)

(11,360

)

Other

(15,016

)

(8,286

)

(2,072

)

Net cash used in financing activities

(806,896

)

(522,682

)

(621,383

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

(2,945

)


—

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(149,755

)

155,807

(4,904

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

242,461

86,654

91,558

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

92,706

$

242,461

$

86,654

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid, net of interest cost capitalized

$

132,905

$

107,477

$

116,580

Income taxes paid

$

299,021

$

313,875

$

299,566

Assets acquired through capital lease

$

16,880

$

61,572

$

69,325

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

Accumulated

Common

Additional

Other

Shares

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Comprehensive

Treasury

(in thousands)

Issued

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Loss

Stock

Total

Balance at August 26, 2006

77,240

$


$

500,880

$

559,208

$

(15,500

)

$

(575,832

)

$

469,528

Net income

595,672

595,672

Minimum pension liability, net of taxes of $9,176

14,218

14,218

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

(3,240

)

(3,240

)

Unrealized gain adjustment on
marketable securities, net of taxes of $56



Net losses on outstanding
derivatives, net of taxes of ($1,627)

(2,813

)

(2,813

)

Reclassification of net gains on
derivatives into earnings

(612

)

(612

)

Comprehensive income

603,329

Cumulative effect of adopting SFAS
158, net of taxes of ($1,089)

(1,707

)

(1,707

)

Purchase of 6,032 shares of
treasury stock

(761,887

)

(761,887

)

Retirement of treasury stock

(6,900

)

(68

)

(49,404

)

(608,831

)

658,303

—

Sale of common stock under stock option and stock
purchase plans



58,943

58,952

Share-based compensation expense

18,462

18,462

Income tax benefit from exercise of
stock options

16,523

16,523

Balance at August 25, 2007

71,250


545,404

546,049

(9,550

)

(679,416

)

403,200

Net income

641,606

641,606

Pension liability adjustments, net of taxes of
($1,145)

(1,817

)

(1,817

)

Foreign currency translation
Adjustment

13,965

13,965

Unrealized gain adjustment on
marketable securities, net of taxes of
$142



Net losses on outstanding
derivatives, net of taxes of ($3,715)

(6,398

)

(6,398

)

Reclassification of net gains on
derivatives into earnings

(598

)

(598

)

Comprehensive income

647,021

Cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48

(26,933

)

(26,933

)

Purchase of 6,802 shares of
treasury stock

(849,196

)

(849,196

)

Retirement of treasury stock

(8,100

)

(81

)

(63,990

)

(954,623

)

1,018,694

—

Sale of common stock under stock option and stock
purchase plans



27,061

27,065

Share-based compensation expense

18,388

18,388

Income tax benefit from exercise of
stock options

10,142

10,142

Balance at August 30, 2008

63,600


537,005

206,099

(4,135

)

(509,918

)

229,687

Net income

657,049

657,049

Pension liability adjustments, net of taxes of
($29,481)

(46,956

)

(46,956

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(43,655

)

(43,655

)

Unrealized gain adjustment on marketable
securities net of taxes of $306



Reclassification of net loss on termination of
swap into earnings, net of taxes of $1,601

2,744

2,744

Reclassification of net gain on derivatives into
earnings

(612

)

(612

)

Comprehensive income

569,138

Cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 158 measurement
date, net of taxes of $198




Purchase of 9,313 shares of treasury stock

(1,300,002

)

(1,300,002

)

Issuance of 3 shares of common stock



Retirement of treasury shares

(6,223

)

(62

)

(55,071

)

(726,513

)

781,646

—

Sale of common stock under stock option and stock
purchase plans



39,850

39,855

Share-based compensation expense

19,135

19,135

Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

8,407

8,407

Balance at August 29, 2009

57,881

$


$

549,326

$

136,935

$

(92,035

)

$

(1,027,879

)

$

(433,074

)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies

Business:

AutoZone, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“AutoZone” or the “Company”) is
principally a retailer and distributor of automotive parts and accessories. At the end of fiscal
2009, the Company operated 4,229 domestic stores in the United States and Puerto Rico, and 188
stores in Mexico. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles,
vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items,
accessories and non-automotive products. In 2,303 of the stores at the end of fiscal 2009, the
Company has a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts
and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and
public sector accounts. The Company also sells the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair
software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, the Company sells automotive hard parts,
maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and as part
of our commercial sales program, through www.autozonepro.com.

Fiscal Year:

The Company’s fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in
August. Accordingly, fiscal 2009 represented 52 weeks ended on August 29, 2009. Fiscal 2008
represented 53 weeks ended on August 30, 2008, and fiscal 2007 represented 52 weeks ended on August
25, 2007.

Basis of Presentation:

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AutoZone, Inc.
and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates:

Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating
to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities to prepare
these financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash Equivalents:

Cash equivalents consist of investments with original maturities of 90 days or
less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents include proceeds due from credit and debit card
transactions with settlement terms of less than 5 days. Credit and debit card receivables included
within cash equivalents were $24.3 million at August 29, 2009 and $22.7 million at August 30, 2008.

Marketable Securities:

The Company invests a portion of its assets held by the Company’s wholly
owned insurance captive in marketable debt securities and classifies them as available-for-sale.
The Company includes these securities within the other current assets caption and records the
amounts at fair market value, which is determined using quoted market prices at the end of the
reporting period. Unrealized gains and losses on these marketable securities are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The Company’s basis for determining the cost
of a security sold is the “Specific Identification Method.”

The Company’s available-for-sale financial instruments consisted of the following:

Amortized

Gross

Gross

Fair

Cost

Unrealized

Unrealized

Market

(in thousands)

Basis

Gains

Losses

Value

August 29, 2009

$

68,862

$

1,510

$

(334

)

$

70,038

August 30, 2008

$

58,517

$


$

(171

)

$

58,803

The debt securities held at August 29, 2009, had effective maturities ranging from less than one
year to approximately 3 years and consisted primarily of high grade Corporate and Government fixed
income securities. The Company did not realize any material gains or losses on its marketable
securities during fiscal 2009.

The Company holds three securities that are in an unrealized loss position of approximately $300
thousand at August 29, 2009. The Company has the intent and ability to hold these investments until
recovery of fair value or maturity, and does not deem the investments to be impaired on an other
than temporary basis. In evaluating whether the securities are deemed to be impaired on an other
than temporary basis, the Company considers factors such as
the duration and severity of the loss position, the credit worthiness of the investee, the term to
maturity and our intent and ability to hold the investments until maturity or until recovery of
fair value.



Accounts Receivable:

Accounts receivable consists of receivables from commercial customers and
vendors, and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts. AutoZone routinely
grants credit to certain of its commercial customers. The risk of credit loss in its trade
receivables is substantially mitigated by the Company’s credit evaluation process, short collection
terms and sales to a large number of customers, as well as the low revenue per transaction for most
of its sales. Allowances for potential credit losses are determined based on historical experience
and current evaluation of the composition of accounts receivable. Historically, credit losses have
been within management’s expectations and the allowances for uncollectible accounts were $2.5
million at August 29, 2009, and $16.3 million at August 30, 2008. The decrease in the allowance
during fiscal 2009 was due to the write off against the allowance of $14.9 million of receivables
that were over 2 years old and previously reserved.

Historically, certain receivables were sold to a third party at a discount for cash with limited
recourse. At August 30, 2008, the Company had $55.4 million outstanding under this program.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, AutoZone terminated its agreement to sell receivables to
a third party. There were no amounts outstanding under this program as of August 29, 2009.

Merchandise Inventories:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using the last-in,
first-out (LIFO) method for domestic inventories and the first-in, first out (FIFO) for Mexico
inventories. Included in inventory are related purchasing, storage and handling costs. Due to
price deflation on the Company’s merchandise purchases, the Company’s domestic inventory balances
are effectively maintained under the FIFO method. The Company’s policy is not to write up inventory
in excess of replacement cost. The cumulative balance of this unrecorded adjustment, which will be
reduced upon experiencing price inflation on our merchandise purchases, was $223.0 million at
August 29, 2009, and $225.4 million at August 30, 2008.

Property and Equipment:

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are
computed principally using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:
buildings, 40 to 50 years; building improvements, 5 to 15 years; equipment, 3 to 10 years; and
leasehold improvements, over the shorter of the asset’s estimated useful life or the remaining
lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods. Depreciation and amortization
include amortization of assets under capital lease.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:

The Company evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived assets
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable and exceeds its fair value. When such an event occurs, the Company compares the sum of
the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the asset (asset group) with the carrying amounts of
the asset. If the undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the
assets, the Company measures the amount of impairment loss as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. No impairment losses were recorded in
the three years ended August 29, 2009.

Goodwill:

The cost in excess of fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired is
recorded as goodwill. Goodwill has not been amortized since fiscal 2001, but an analysis is
performed at least annually to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying amount
to determine if any impairment exists. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment in the
fourth quarter of each fiscal year, unless circumstances dictate more frequent assessments. No
impairment losses were recorded in the three years ended August 29, 2009. Goodwill was $302.6
million, net of accumulated amortization of $51.2 million, as of August 29, 2009, and August 30,
2008.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities:

AutoZone is exposed to market risk from, among other
things, changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, the
Company uses various financial instruments to reduce such risks. To date, based upon the Company’s
current level of foreign operations, no derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign
exchange rate risk. All of the Company’s hedging activities are governed by guidelines that are
authorized by AutoZone’s Board of Directors. Further, the Company does not buy or sell financial
instruments for trading purposes.



AutoZone’s financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times,
AutoZone reduces its exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate
hedge instruments such as interest rate
swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting interest rate swaps. All of the
Company’s interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. Refer to “Note G —
Derivative Financial Instruments” for additional disclosures regarding the Company’s derivative
instruments and hedging activities. Cash flows related to these instruments designated as
qualifying hedges are reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows in the
same categories as the cash flows from the items being hedged. Accordingly, cash flows relating to
the settlement of interest rate derivatives hedging the forecasted issuance of debt have been
reflected upon settlement as a component of financing cash flows. The resulting gain or loss from
such settlement is deferred to other comprehensive loss and reclassified to interest expense over
the term of the underlying debt. This reclassification of the deferred gains and losses impacts
the interest expense recognized on the underlying debt that was hedged and is therefore reflected
as a component of operating cash flows in periods subsequent to settlement. The periodic
settlement of interest rate derivatives hedging outstanding variable rate debt is recorded as an
adjustment to interest expense and is therefore reflected as a component of operating cash flows.

Foreign Currency:

The Company accounts for its Mexican operations using the Mexican peso as the
functional currency and converts its financial statements from Mexican pesos to U.S. dollars. The
cumulative loss on currency translation is recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive loss and approximated $45.5 million at August 29, 2009, and $1.8 million at August
30, 2008.

Self-Insurance Reserves:

The Company retains a significant portion of the risks associated with
workers’ compensation, employee health, general, products liability, property and vehicle
insurance. Through various methods, which include analyses of historical trends and utilization of
actuaries, the Company estimates the costs of these risks. The costs are accrued based upon the
aggregate of the liability for reported claims and an estimated liability for claims incurred but
not reported. Estimates are based on calculations that consider historical lag and claim
development factors. The long-term portions of these liabilities are recorded at our estimate of
their net present value.

Deferred Rent:

The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the course of the
lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods, beginning on the date the
Company takes physical possession of the property (see “Note L — Leases”). Differences between
this calculated expense and cash payments are recorded as a liability in accrued expenses and other
liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. This deferred rent approximated $59.2 million as of
August 29, 2009, and $51.0 million as of August 30, 2008.

Financial Instruments:

The Company has financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, other current assets and accounts payable. The carrying amounts of these
financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short maturities. A discussion of the
carrying values and fair values of the Company’s debt is included in “Note H — Financing,”
marketable securities is included in “Note A — Marketable Securities,” and derivatives is included
in “Note G — Derivative Financial Instruments.”

Income Taxes:

The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect
when the differences are expected to reverse. Our effective tax rate is based on income by tax
jurisdiction, statutory rates, and tax saving initiatives available to us in the various
jurisdictions in which we operate.

The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process.
The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of
available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on
audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step
requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50%
likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to
estimate such amounts, as the Company must determine the probability of various possible outcomes.
The Company reevaluates these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis or when new information
becomes available to management. These reevaluations are based on factors including, but not
limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, successfully settled issues
under audit, expirations due to statutes, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or
measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an increase to the tax accrual.



The Company classifies interest related to income tax liabilities as income tax expense, and if
applicable, penalties are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The income tax
liabilities and accrued interest and penalties that are due within one year of the balance sheet
date are presented as current liabilities. The remaining portion of the income tax liabilities and
accrued interest and penalties are presented as noncurrent liabilities because payment of cash is
not anticipated within one year of the balance sheet date. These noncurrent income tax liabilities
are recorded in the caption “Other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheets.

Sales and Use Taxes:

Governmental authorities assess sales and use taxes on the sale of goods and
services. The Company excludes taxes collected from customers in its reported sales results; such
amounts are reflected as accrued expenses and other until remitted to the taxing authorities.

Revenue Recognition:

The Company recognizes sales at the time the sale is made and the product is
delivered to the customer. Revenue from sales are presented net of allowances for estimated sales
returns, which are based on historical return rates.

A portion of the Company’s transactions include the sale of auto parts that contain a core
component. The core component represents the recyclable portion of the auto part. Customers are not
charged for the core component of the new part if a used core is returned at the point of sale of
the new part; otherwise the Company charges customers a specified amount for the core component.
The Company refunds that same amount upon the customer returning a used core to the store at a
later date. The Company does not recognize sales or cost of sales for the core component of these
transactions when a used part is returned or expected to be returned from the customer.

Vendor Allowances and Advertising Costs:

The Company receives various payments and allowances from
its vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements. Monies received from vendors include
rebates, allowances and promotional funds. The amounts to be received are subject to the terms of
the vendor agreements, which generally do not state an expiration date, but are subject to ongoing
negotiations that may be impacted in the future based on changes in market conditions, vendor
marketing strategies and changes in the profitability or sell-through of the related merchandise.

Rebates and other miscellaneous incentives are earned based on purchases or product sales and are
accrued ratably over the purchase or sale of the related product. These monies are recorded as a
reduction of inventories and are recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related
inventories are sold.

The majority of the vendor funds received is recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventories and
is recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as these inventories are sold. For arrangements that
provide for reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in
selling the vendors’ products, the vendor funds are recorded as a reduction to selling, general and
administrative expenses in the period in which the specific costs were incurred.

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense, net of vendor promotional
funds, was $72.1 million in fiscal 2009, $86.2 million in fiscal 2008, and $85.9 million in fiscal
2007. Vendor promotional funds, which reduced advertising expense, amounted to $9.7 million in
fiscal 2009, $2.9 million in fiscal 2008, and zero in fiscal 2007.

Cost of Sales and Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses:

The following
illustrates the primary costs classified in each major expense category:

Cost of Sales

•

Total cost of merchandise sold, including:

•

Freight expenses associated with moving merchandise inventories from
the Company’s vendors to the distribution centers and to the retail stores

•

Vendor allowances that are not reimbursements for specific, incremental
and identifiable costs

•

Cost associated with operating the Company’s supply chain, including payroll and benefit
costs, warehouse occupancy costs, transportation costs and depreciation

•

Inventory shrinkage



Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Warranty Costs:

The Company or the vendors supplying its products provides its customers limited
warranties on certain products that range from 30 days to lifetime. In most cases, the Company’s
vendors are primarily responsible for warranty claims. Warranty costs relating to merchandise sold
under warranty not covered by vendors are estimated and recorded as warranty obligations at the
time of sale based on each product’s historical return rate. These obligations, which are often
funded by vendor allowances, are recorded as a component of accrued expenses. For vendor allowances
that are in excess of the related estimated warranty expense for the vendor’s products, the excess
is recorded in inventory and recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related inventory is
sold.

Shipping and Handling Costs:

The Company does not generally charge customers separately for
shipping and handling. Substantially all the cost the Company incurs to ship products to our
stores is included in cost of sales.

Pre-opening Expenses:

Pre-opening expenses, which consist primarily of payroll and occupancy costs,
are expensed as incurred.

Earnings Per Share:

Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding common
shares. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding shares adjusted for
the effect of common stock equivalents, which are primarily stock options. Stock options that were
not included in the diluted computation because they would have been anti-dilutive were
approximately 30,000 shares at August 29, 2009, 31,000 shares at August 30, 2008, and 8,000 shares
at August 25, 2007.

Share-Based Payments:

Share-based payments include stock option grants and certain other
transactions under the Company’s stock plans. The Company recognizes compensation expense for its
share-based payments based on the fair value of the awards. See “Note B — Share-Based Payments”
for further discussion.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued FASB Statement No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS
158”). SFAS 158 requires plan sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit
plans (collectively postretirement benefit plans) to: recognize the funded status of their
postretirement benefit plans in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan
assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial
position and provide additional disclosures.

On August 25, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions and on August 31,
2008, the company adopted the measurement date provisions. The adoption of these provisions had no
material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Refer to “Note K-Pension and Savings
Plans” for further description of these adoptions.

On August 31, 2008, the Company adopted, FASB Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS
157”). This new standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in
generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
There is a one-year deferral of the adoption of this standard as it relates to nonfinancial assets
and liabilities. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the consolidated
financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement 141R, “Business Combinations,” (“SFAS 141R”).
This standard significantly changes the accounting for and reporting of business combinations in
consolidated financial statements. Among other things, SFAS 141R requires the acquiring entity in a
business combination to recognize the
full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date and requires the
expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs. The standard is effective for the Company
beginning August 30, 2009, and is applicable only to transactions occurring after the effective
date.



In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133,” (“SFAS 161”). SFAS 161 amends SFAS No. 133 to improve
the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities by providing enhanced
disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and
related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations, and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position, financial
performance, and cash flows. The adoption of SFAS 161 did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial statements.

In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 107-1 (“FSP 107-1”) and Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 28-1 (“APB 28-1”), “Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments,” amending the disclosure requirements in SFAS 107 and APB Opinion 28. FSP 107-1 and
APB 28-1 require disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting
periods in addition to annual reporting periods. These disclosures will be required commencing
with the Company’s fiscal quarter beginning August 30, 2009.

In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, “Subsequent Events” (“SFAS 165”), which establishes
general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet
date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. Specifically, SFAS
165 sets forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management of a reporting
entity should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or
disclosure in the financial statements, the circumstances under which an entity should recognize
events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements, and the
disclosures that an entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance
sheet date. The Company adopted SFAS 165 on August 29, 2009, and it had no impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements. Management has evaluated subsequent events through the date
these financial statements were issued.

In June 2009, the FASB voted to approve the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification)
as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. The Codification will be effective for the Company commencing with the Company’s fiscal
quarter beginning August 30, 2009. The FASB Codification does not change U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, but combines all authoritative standards such as those issued by the FASB,
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Emerging Issues Task Force into a
comprehensive, topically organized online database.

Note B — Share-Based Payments

Total share-based expense (a component of operating, selling, general and administrative expenses)
was $19.1 million related to stock options and share purchase plans for fiscal 2009, $18.4 million
for fiscal 2008, and $18.5 million for fiscal 2007. Tax deductions in excess of recognized
compensation cost are classified as a financing cash inflow.



AutoZone grants options to purchase common stock to certain of its employees and directors under
various plans at prices equal to the market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options have
a term of 10 years or 10 years and one day from grant date. Director options generally vest three
years from grant date. Employee options generally vest in equal annual installments on the first,
second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. Employees and directors generally have
30 days after the service relationship ends, or one year after death, to exercise all vested
options. The fair value of each option grant is separately estimated for each vesting date. The
fair value of each option is amortized into compensation expense on a straight-line basis between
the grant date for the award and each vesting date. The Company has estimated the fair value of
all stock option awards as of the date of the grant by applying the Black-Scholes-Merton
multiple-option pricing valuation model. The application of this valuation model involves
assumptions that are judgmental and highly sensitive in the determination of compensation expense.
The weighted average for key assumptions used in determining the fair value of options granted and
the compensation expense recorded as well as a summary of the methodology applied to develop each
assumption are as follows:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,




Expected price volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rates

2.4

%

4.1

%

4.6

%

Weighted average expected lives in years

4.1

4.0

3.9

Forfeiture rate


%


%


%

Dividend yield


%


%


%

Expected Price Volatility —

This is a measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated
or is expected to fluctuate. The Company uses actual historical changes in the market value of
our stock to calculate the volatility assumption as it is management’s belief that this is the
best indicator of future volatility. We calculate daily market value changes from the date of
grant over a past period representative of the expected life of the options to determine
volatility. An increase in the expected volatility will increase compensation expense.

Risk-Free Interest Rate —

This is the U.S. Treasury rate for the week of the grant having a term
equal to the expected life of the option. An increase in the risk-free interest rate will
increase compensation expense.

Expected Lives —

This is the period of time over which the options granted are expected to
remain outstanding and is based on historical experience. Separate groups of employees that have
similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Options
granted have a maximum term of ten years or ten years and one day. An increase in the expected
life will increase compensation expense.

Forfeiture Rate —

This is the estimated percentage of options granted that are expected to be
forfeited or canceled before becoming fully vested. This estimate is based on historical
experience at the time of valuation and reduces expense ratably over the vesting period. An
increase in the forfeiture rate will decrease compensation expense. This estimate is evaluated
periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ,
from the previous estimate.

Dividend Yield —

The Company has not made any dividend payments nor does it have plans to pay
dividends in the foreseeable future. An increase in the dividend yield will decrease
compensation expense.

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $34.06 during fiscal 2009, $30.28
during fiscal 2008, and $29.04 during fiscal 2007. The intrinsic value of options exercised was
$29 million in fiscal 2009, $29 million in fiscal 2008, and $47 million in fiscal 2007. The total
fair value of options vested was $16 million in fiscal 2009, $18 million in fiscal 2008 and $12
million in fiscal 2007.

The Company generally issues new shares when options are exercised. The following table summarizes
information about stock option activity for the year ended August 29, 2009:

Number of Shares

Weighted Average Exercise Price

Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Term (years)

Aggregate Intrinsic Value

(in thousands)

Outstanding August 30, 2008

3,101,237

$

89.42

Granted

594,442

131.23

Exercised

(503,839

)

80.62

Canceled

(96,488

)

94.19

Outstanding August 29, 2009

3,095,352

98.73

6.44

153,925

Exercisable

1,622,300

82.32

4.92

107,285

Expected to Vest

1,325,747

116.81

8.11

41,947

Available for future grants

3,666,029



Under the AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan, a non-employee director may receive no
more than one-half of their director fees immediately in cash, and the remainder of the fees must
be taken in common stock. The director may elect to receive up to 100% of the fees in stock or
defer all or part of the fees in units (“Director Units”) with value equivalent to the value of
shares of common stock as of the grant date. At August 29, 2009, the
Company has $2.6 million accrued related to 17,506 director units issued under the current and
prior plans with 78,943 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under the current plan.

Under the AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan (the “Director Stock Option Plan”), each
non-employee director receives an option grant on January 1 of each year, and each new non-employee
director receives an option to purchase 3,000 shares upon election to the Board of Directors, plus
a portion of the annual directors’ option grant prorated for the portion of the year actually
served in office. Under the Director Compensation Program, each non-employee director may choose
between two pay options, and the number of stock options a director receives under the Director
Stock Option Plan depends on which pay option the director chooses. Directors who elect to be paid
only the Base Retainer will receive, on January 1 during their first two years of services as a
director, an option to purchase 3,000 shares of AutoZone common stock. After the first two years,
such directors will receive, on January 1 of each year, an option to purchase 1,500 shares of
common stock, and each such director who owns common stock or Director Units worth at least five
times the Base Retainer will receive an additional option to purchase 1,500 shares. Directors
electing to be paid a Supplemental Retainer in addition to the Base Retainer will receive, on
January 1 during their first two years of service as a director, an option to purchase 2,000 shares
of AutoZone common stock. After the first two years, such directors will receive an option to
purchase 500 shares of common stock, and each such director who owns common stock or Stock Units
worth at least five times the Base Retainer will receive an additional option to purchase 1,500
shares. These stock option grants are made at the fair market value as of the grant date. At
August 29, 2009, there are 114,516 outstanding options with 232,984 shares of common stock reserved
for future issuance under this plan.

The Company recognized $0.9 million in expense related to the discount on the selling of shares to
employees and executives under various share purchase plans in fiscal 2009, $0.7 million in fiscal
2008 and $1.1 million in fiscal 2007. The employee stock purchase plan, which is qualified under
Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, permits all eligible employees to purchase AutoZone’s
common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first day or last
day of each calendar quarter through payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual purchases are
$15,000 per employee or 10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the plan, 29,147
shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2009, 36,147 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2008,
and 39,139 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2007. The Company repurchased 37,190 shares at
fair value in fiscal 2009, 39,235 shares at fair value in fiscal 2008, and 65,152 shares at fair
value in fiscal 2007 from employees electing to sell their stock. Issuances of shares under the
employee stock purchase plans are netted against repurchases and such repurchases are not included
in share repurchases disclosed in “Note J — Stock Repurchase Program.” At August 29, 2009,
320,603 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan. Once executives
have reached the maximum under the employee stock purchase plan, the Amended and Restated Executive
Stock Purchase Plan permits all eligible executives to purchase AutoZone’s common stock up to 25
percent of his or her annual salary and bonus. Purchases under this plan were 1,705 shares in
fiscal 2009, 1,793 shares in fiscal 2008, and 1,257 shares in fiscal 2007. At August 29, 2009,
259,539 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under this plan.

Note C — Accrued Expenses and Other

Accrued expenses consisted of the following:

August 29,

August 30,

(in thousands)



Medical and casualty insurance claims (current portion)

$

65,024

$

55,270

Accrued compensation, related payroll taxes and benefits

121,192

98,054

Property, sales, and other taxes

92,065

87,174

Accrued interest

32,448

26,375

Accrued gift cards

16,337

11,659

Accrued sales and warranty returns

12,432

9,983

Capital lease obligations

16,735

15,917

Other

25,038

23,233

$

381,271

$

327,664

The Company retains a significant portion of the insurance risks associated with workers’
compensation, employee health, general, products liability, property and automotive insurance. A
portion of these self-insured losses is managed through a wholly owned insurance captive. The
Company maintains certain levels for stop-loss coverage
for each self-insured plan in order to limit its liability for large claims. The limits are per
claim and are $1.5 million for workers’ compensation and property, $0.5 million for employee
health, and $1.0 million for general, products liability, and automotive.



Note D — Income Taxes

The provision for income tax expense consisted of the following:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)




Current:

Federal

$

303,929

$

285,516

$

292,166

State

26,450

20,516

23,468

330,379

306,032

315,634

Deferred:

Federal

46,809

51,997

22,878

State

(491

)

7,754

1,966

46,318

59,751

24,844

Total provision for income taxes

$

376,697

$

365,783

$

340,478

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the federal
statutory tax rate of 35% to income before income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,




Federal tax at statutory U.S. income tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State income taxes, net

1.6

%

1.8

%

1.8

%

Other

(0.2

%)

(0.5

%)

(0.4

%)

Effective tax rate

36.4

%

36.3

%

36.4

%

Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

August 29,

August 30,

(in thousands)



Deferred tax assets:

Domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards

$

23,119

$

20,259

Foreign net operating loss and credit carryforwards

1,369

4,857

Insurance reserves

14,769

7,933

Accrued benefits

32,976

27,991

Pension

26,273

—

Other

35,836

39,204

Total deferred tax assets

134,342

100,244

Less valuation allowances

(7,116

)

(7,551

)

Net deferred tax assets

127,226

92,693

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property and equipment

36,472

24,186

Inventory

192,715

149,318

Pension

—

1,620

Prepaid expenses

11,517

13,658

Other

3,323

2,431

Deferred tax liabilities

244,027

191,213

Net deferred tax liabilities

$

(116,801

)

$

(98,520

)

Deferred taxes are not provided for temporary differences of approximately $47.1 million at August
29, 2009, and $26.5 million of August 30, 2008, representing earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that
are intended to be permanently reinvested. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability
associated with these undistributed earnings and other basis differences is not practicable.



At August 29, 2009, and August 30, 2008, the Company had deferred tax assets of $8.4 million and
$8.6 million from federal tax operating losses (“NOLs”) of $24.0 million and $24.6 million, and
deferred tax assets of $1.3 million and $1.5 million from state tax NOLs of $24.6 million and $32.8
million, respectively. At August 29, 2009, and August 30, 2008, the Company had deferred tax assets
of $1.3 million and $3.8 million from Non-U.S. NOLs of $3.3 million and $9.7 million, respectively.
The federal, state, and Non-U.S. NOLs expire between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2028. At August 29,
2009 and August 30, 2008, the Company had a valuation allowance of $6.8 million and $7.0 million,
respectively, for certain federal and state NOLs resulting primarily from annual statutory usage
limitations. At August 29, 2009 and August 30, 2008, the Company had deferred tax assets of $13.5
million and $11.2 million, respectively, for federal, state, and Non-U.S. income tax credit
carryforwards. Certain tax credit carryforwards have no expiration date and others will expire in
fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2030. At August 29, 2009, and August 30, 2008, the Company had a
valuation allowance of $0.4 million and $0.5 million for credits subject to such expiration
periods, respectively.

AutoZone adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” (“FIN 48”) on August 26, 2007. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements and provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition issues. The adoption of FIN 48
resulted in a decrease to the beginning balance of retained earnings of $26.9 million at the date
of adoption. Including this cumulative effect amount, the liability recorded for total unrecognized
tax benefits upon adoption at August 26, 2007, was $49.2 million.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

(in thousands)

August 29, 2009

August 30, 2008

Beginning balance

$

40,759

$

49,240

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year

5,511

6,181

Additions for tax positions of prior years

9,567


Reductions for tax positions of prior years

(5,679

)

(8,890

)

Reductions due to settlements

(2,519

)

(3,201

)

Reductions due to statue of limitations

(3,447

)

(2,636

)

Ending balance

$

44,192

$

40,759

Included in the August 29, 2009, balance is $28.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
recognized, would reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.

The Company accrues interest on unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Penalties, if incurred, would be recognized as a component of income tax expense. The Company had
$12.4 million and $15.0 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties associated with
unrecognized tax benefits at August 29, 2009 and August 30, 2008 respectively.

The major jurisdictions where the Company files income tax returns are the United States and
Mexico. With few exceptions, tax returns filed for tax years 2004 through 2008 remain open and
subject to examination by the relevant tax authorities. The Company is typically engaged in various
tax examinations at any given time, both by U. S. federal and state taxing jurisdictions and
Mexican tax authorities. As of August 29, 2009 the Company estimates that the amount of
unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $18.7 million over the next twelve
months as a result of tax audit closings, settlements, and the expiration of statutes to examine
such returns in various jurisdictions. While the Company believes that it is adequately accrued
for possible audit adjustments, the final resolution of these examinations cannot be determined at
this time and could result in final settlements that differ from current estimates.

Note E- Fair Value Measurements

Effective August 31, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157, which defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and
expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. This standard defines fair value
as the price received to transfer an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by creating a
hierarchy of valuation inputs used to measure fair value, and although it does not require
additional fair value measurements, it applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or
permit fair value measurements.



The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels:

Level 1 inputs

—unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
that the Company has the ability to access. An active market for the asset or liability is one
in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to
provide ongoing pricing information.

Level 2 inputs

—inputs other than quoted market prices included in Level 1 that are
observable, either directly or indirectly, for the asset or liability. Level 2 inputs include,
but are not limited to, quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in an active market,
quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active
and inputs other than quoted market prices that are observable for the asset or liability,
such as interest rate curves and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals,
volatilities, credit risk and default rates.

Level 3 inputs

—unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

At August 29, 2009, the fair value measurement amounts for assets and liabilities recorded on the
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of short-term investments (Level 1) of $69.3
million, which are included within other current assets. Short-term investments are typically
valued at the closing price in the principal active market as of the last business day of the
quarter.

Note F — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

Accumulated other comprehensive income includes certain adjustments to pension liabilities, foreign
currency translation adjustments, certain activity for interest rate swaps that qualify as cash
flow hedges and unrealized gains and (losses) on available-for-sale securities.

Changes in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss consisted of the following:

Unrealized

Loss (Gain)

Net Loss

Reclassification

Pension

Foreign

on

(Gain) on

of Net Gains on

Accumulated

Liability

Currency

Marketable

Outstanding

Derivatives into

Other

Adjustments,

Translation

Securities,

Derivatives,

Earnings, net of

Comprehensive

(

in thousands

)

net of taxes

Adjustments

net of taxes

net of taxes

taxes

Loss

Balance at August 25, 2007

$

2,453

$

15,763

$


$

(3,654

)

$

(5,089

)

$

9,550

Current-Year activity

1,817

(13,965

)

(263

)

6,398


(5,415

)

Balance at August 30, 2008

4,270

1,798

(186

)

2,744

(4,491

)

4,135

Current-Year activity

46,945

43,655

(568

)

(2,744

)


87,900

Balance at August 29, 2009

$

51,215

$

45,453

$

(754

)

$

—

$

(3,879

)

$

92,035

The pension adjustment of $46.9 million reflects actuarial losses not yet reflected in the periodic
pension cost caused primarily by the significant losses on pension assets in the current year. The
foreign currency translation adjustment of $43.7 million during fiscal 2009 was attributable to the
weakening of the Mexican Peso against the US Dollar, which as of August 29, 2009, had decreased by
approximately 30% when compared to August 30, 2008.



Note G — Derivative Financial Instruments

Cash Flow Hedges

The Company was party to an interest rate swap agreement related to its $300 million term floating
rate loan, which bore interest based on the three month London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and
matured in December, 2009. Under this agreement, which was accounted for as a cash flow hedge, the
interest rate on the term loan was effectively fixed for its entire term at 4.4% and effectiveness
was measured each reporting period.

The effective portion of the gain or loss on interest rate hedges was deferred and reported as a
component of other comprehensive income or loss. These deferred gains and losses were recognized
in income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash
flows being hedged were recognized in expense. During August 2009, the Company elected to prepay,
without penalty, the entire $300 million term loan. The outstanding liability associated with the
interest rate swap totaled $3.6 million, and was immediately expensed in earnings upon termination.
The Company recognized $5.9 million as increases to interest expense during the current fiscal
year related to payments associated with the interest rate swap agreement prior to its termination.
At August 30, 2008, the fair value of the outstanding interest rate swap was a negative $4.3
million.

At August 29, 2009, the Company had $3.9 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
related to net realized gains associated with terminated interest derivatives, which were
designated as hedges. Net gains are amortized into earnings over the remaining life of the
associated debt. For the fiscal year ended August 29, 2009, the Company reclassified $612,000 of
net gains from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest expense.

Derivatives not designated as Hedging Instruments

The Company is dependent upon diesel fuel to operate its vehicles used in the Company’s
distribution network to deliver parts to its stores and unleaded fuel for delivery of parts from
its stores to its commercial customers or other stores. Fuel is not a material component of the
Company’s operating costs; however, the Company attempts to secure fuel at the lowest possible cost
and to reduce volatility in its operating costs. Because unleaded and diesel fuel include
transportation costs and taxes, there are limited opportunities to hedge this exposure directly.
However, during fiscal year 2009, the Company used a derivative financial instrument based on the
Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Oxygen Blending (RBOB) index to economically hedge the
commodity cost associated with its unleaded fuel.

The fuel swap did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and was executed to economically hedge
a portion of unleaded fuel purchases. The notional amount of the contract was 2.5 million gallons
and terminated August 31, 2009. The loss on the fuel contract for fiscal 2009 was $2.3 million.



Note H — Financing

The Company’s long-term debt consisted of the following:

August 29,

August 30,

(in thousands)



Bank Term Loan due December 2009, effective interest rate of 4.40%

$

—

$

300,000

4.75% Senior Notes due November 2010, effective interest rate of 4.17%

199,300

200,000

5.875% Senior Notes due October 2012, effective interest rate of 6.33%

300,000

300,000

4.375% Senior Notes due June 2013, effective interest rate of 5.65%

200,000

200,000

6.5% Senior Notes due January 2014, effective interest rate of 6.63%

500,000

500,000

5.75% Senior Notes due January 2015, effective interest rate of 5.89%

500,000

—

5.5% Senior Notes due November 2015, effective interest rate of 4.86%

300,000

300,000

6.95% Senior Notes due June 2016, effective interest rate of 7.09%

200,000

200,000

7.125% Senior Notes due August 2018, effective interest rate of 7.28%

250,000

250,000

Commercial paper, weighted average interest rate of 0.5% at August 29, 2009

277,600

—

$

2,726,900

$

2,250,000

As of August 29, 2009, the commercial paper borrowings mature in the next twelve months but are
classified as long-term in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the Company has the
ability and intent to refinance them on a long-term basis. Specifically, excluding the effect of
commercial paper borrowings, the Company had $688.1 million of availability under its $800 million
revolving credit facility, expiring in July 2012 that would allow it to replace these short term
obligations with long-term financing.

In July 2009, the Company terminated its $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, which was
scheduled to expire in fiscal 2010, and replaced it with an $800 million revolving credit facility.
This credit facility is available to primarily support commercial paper borrowings, letters of
credit and other short-term unsecured bank loans. This facility expires in July 2012, may be
increased to $1.0 billion at AutoZone’s election and subject to bank credit capacity and approval,
may include up to $200 million in letters of credit, and may include up to $100 million in capital
leases each fiscal year. After reducing the available balance by commercial paper borrowings and
certain outstanding letters of credit, the Company had $410.5 million in available capacity under
this facility at August 29, 2009. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar rate
plus the applicable percentage, which could range from 150 basis points to 450 basis points,
depending upon our senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating.

During August 2009, the Company elected to prepay, without penalty, the $300 million bank term loan
entered in December 2004, and subsequently amended. The term loan facility provided for a term
loan, which consisted of, at the Company’s election, base rate loans, Eurodollar loans or a
combination thereof. The entire unpaid principal amount of the term loan would be due and payable
in full on December 23, 2009, when the facility was scheduled to terminate. Interest accrued on
base rate loans at a base rate per annum equal to the higher of the prime rate or the Federal Funds
Rate plus 1/2 of 1%. The Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement on December 29,
2004, to effectively fix, based on current debt ratings, the interest rate of the term loan at
4.4%. The outstanding liability associated with the interest rate swap totaled $3.6 million, and
was expensed in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses upon termination of the
hedge in fiscal 2009.

On June 25, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with ESL Investments, Inc., (the “ESL
Agreement”) setting forth certain understandings and agreements regarding the voting by ESL
Investments, Inc., on behalf of itself and its affiliates (collectively, “ESL”), of certain shares
of common stock of AutoZone, Inc. and related matters. Among other things, the Company agreed to
use its commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Company’s adjusted debt/EBITDAR target
ratio from 2.1:1 to 2.5:1 no later than February 14, 2009. The Company met this commitment at
February 14, 2009. The Company calculates adjusted debt as the sum of total debt, capital lease
obligations and rent times six; and the Company calculates EBITDAR by adding interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization, rent and stock option expenses to net income. At August 29, 2009, the
adjusted debt/EBITDAR ratio was 2.5:1.



On August 4, 2008, the Company issued $500 million in 6.50% Senior Notes due 2014 and $250 million
in 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018 under the Company’s shelf registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2008 (the “Shelf Registration”). That shelf
registration allowed the Company to sell an indeterminate amount in debt securities to fund general
corporate purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working
capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions.

On July 2, 2009, the Company issued $500 million in 5.75% Senior Notes due 2015 under the Shelf
Registration statement. The Company used the proceeds to pay down the Company’s commercial paper
borrowings, to prepay in full the $300 million term loan in August 2009, and the remainder for
general corporate purposes, including for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, new
store openings and stock repurchases.

The 6.50% and 7.125% Senior Notes issued during August 2008, and the 5.75% Senior Notes issued in
July, 2009, are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the notes
are downgraded. They also contain a provision that repayment of the notes may be accelerated if
AutoZone experiences a change in control (as defined in the agreements). The Company’s borrowings
under the Company’s other senior notes arrangements contain minimal covenants, primarily
restrictions on liens. Under the Company’s other borrowing arrangements, covenants include
limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and
a change
of control provision that may require acceleration of the repayment obligations under certain
circumstances. All of the repayment obligations under the Company’s borrowing arrangements may be
accelerated and come due prior to the scheduled payment date if covenants are breached or an event
of default occurs.

The $800 million revolving credit agreement requires that the Company’s consolidated interest
coverage ratio as of the last day of each quarter shall be no less than 2.50:1. This ratio is
defined as the ratio of (i) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and rents to (ii)
consolidated interest expense plus consolidated rents. The Company’s consolidated interest coverage
ratio as of August 29, 2009 was 4.19:1. As of August 29, 2009, the Company was in compliance with
all covenants and expects to remain in compliance with all covenants.

All of the Company’s debt is unsecured. Scheduled maturities of long-term debt are as follows:

Amount

Fiscal Year

(in thousands)


$

277,600


199,300


—


500,000


500,000

Thereafter

1,250,000

$

2,726,900

The fair value of the Company’s debt was estimated at $2.853 billion as of August 29, 2009, and
$2.235 billion as of August 30, 2008, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar
issues or on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities.
Such fair value is greater than the carrying value of debt by $126.5 million at August 29, 2009,
and less than the carrying value of debt by $15.0 million at August 30, 2008.

Note I — Interest Expense

Net interest expense consisted of the following:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)




Interest expense

$

147,504

$

121,843

$

123,311

Interest income

(3,887

)

(3,785

)

(2,819

)

Capitalized interest

(1,301

)

(1,313

)

(1,376

)

$

142,316

$

116,745

$

119,116



Note J — Stock Repurchase Program

During 1998, the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its
outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum established by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The program was last amended on June 17, 2009 to increase the repurchase authorization to $7.9
billion from $7.4 billion. From January 1998 to August 29, 2009, the Company has repurchased a
total of 115.4 million shares at an aggregate cost of $7.6 billion.

The following table summarizes our share repurchase activity for the following fiscal years:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)




Amount

$

1,300,002

$

849,196

$

761,887

Shares

9,313

6,802

6,032

From August 30, 2009 to October 26, 2009, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares for $178.2
million.

Note K — Pension and Savings Plans

Prior to January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a defined benefit
pension plan. The benefits under the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest
consecutive five-year average compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly,
pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants
will join the pension plan.

On January 1, 2003, the Company’s supplemental defined benefit pension plan for certain highly
compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will earn no new benefits
under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS
158”). SFAS 158 requires plan sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit
plans (collectively postretirement benefit plans) to: recognize the funded status of their
postretirement benefit plans in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan
assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year-end statement of financial
position, and provide additional disclosures.

The Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158 on August 25, 2007. The
recognition provisions of SFAS 158 required the Company to recognize the funded status, which is
the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations, of its
defined benefit pension plans in the August 25, 2007, Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.
The adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption represents the net
unrecognized actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs, both of which were previously
netted against the plans’ funded status in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. These amounts will be subsequently recognized as net periodic pension expense pursuant to
the Company’s historical accounting policy for amortizing such amounts. Further, actuarial gains
and losses that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized as net periodic pension expense
in the same periods will be recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Those amounts
will be subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic pension expense on the same basis as
the amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption of SFAS 158. The
adoption of the recognition provisions of SFAS 158 had an immaterial impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

On August 31, 2008, the Company adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158. The adoption
of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 had no material effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended August 29, 2009.



The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to utilize a diversified mix of domestic and
international equity portfolios, together with other investments, to earn a long-term investment
return that meets the Company’s pension plan obligations. Active management and alternative
investment strategies are utilized within the plan in an effort to minimize risk, while realizing
investment returns in excess of market indices.

The weighted average asset allocation for our pension plan assets was as follows:

August 29, 2009

August 30, 2008

Current

Target

Current

Target

Domestic equities

17.0

%

22.5

%

22.7

%

27.5

%

International equities

40.3

34.0

33.3

29.0

Alternative investments

26.4

30.5

31.4

30.5

Real estate

8.7

11.0

11.8

11.0

Cash and cash equivalents

7.6

2.0

0.8

2.0

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

The following table sets forth the plans’ funded status and amounts recognized in the Company’s
financial statements:

August 29,

August 30,

(in thousands)



Change in Projected Benefit Obligation:

Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

156,674

$

161,064

Interest cost

10,647

9,962

Actuarial (gains) losses

23,637

(10,818

)

Benefits paid

(5,368

)

(3,534

)

Benefit obligations at end of year

$

185,590

$

156,674

Change in Plan Assets:

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

160,898

$

161,221

Actual return on plan assets

(40,235

)

(940

)

Employer contributions


4,151

Benefits paid

(5,368

)

(3,534

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

115,313

$

160,898

Amount Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position:

Non-current other assets

$

—

$

7,264

Current liabilities

(17

)

(17

)

Long-term liabilities

(70,260

)

(3,023

)

Net amount recognized

$

(70,277

)

$

4,224

Amount Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income and not yet reflected in Net Periodic Benefit Cost:

Net actuarial loss

$

(83,377

)

$

(6,891

)

Prior service cost

—

(60

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

$

(83,377

)

$

(6,951

)

Amount Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income and not yet reflected in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and
expected to be amortized in next year’s Net Periodic Benefit Cost:

Net actuarial loss

$

(8,354

)

$

(73

)

Prior service cost

—

(60

)

Amount recognized

$

(8,354

)

$

(133

)



Net Pension Benefits (Income) Expense:

Year Ended

August 29,

August 30,

August 25,

(in thousands)




Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Interest cost

$

10,647

$

9,962

$

9,593

Expected return on plan assets

(12,683

)

(13,036

)

(10,343

)

Amortization of prior service cost



(54

)

Recognized net actuarial losses




Net periodic benefit (income) expense

$

(1,903

)

$

(2,878

)

$

(53

)

The actuarial assumptions were as follows:




Weighted average discount rate

6.24

%

6.90

%

6.25

%

Expected long-term rate of return on assets

8.00

%

8.00

%

8.00

%

As the plan benefits are frozen, increases in future compensation levels no longer impact the
calculation and there is no service cost. The discount rate is determined as of the measurement
date and is based on the calculated yield of a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds with cash
flows that generally match the Company’s expected benefit payments in future years. The expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical relationships between the
investment classes and the capital markets, updated for current conditions.

The Company makes annual contributions in amounts at least equal to the minimum funding
requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The Company contributed
approximately $18,000 to the plans in fiscal 2009, $1.3 million to the plans in fiscal 2008 and
$13.4 million to the plans in fiscal 2007. The Company expects to contribute approximately $4
million to the plan in fiscal 2010; however, a change to the expected cash funding may be impacted
by a change in interest rates or a change in the actual or expected return on plan assets.

Based on current assumptions about future events, benefit payments are expected to be paid as
follows for each of the following fiscal years. Actual benefit payments may vary significantly
from the following estimates:

Amount

Fiscal Year

(in thousands)


$

4,737


5,313


5,844


6,476


7,175

2015 — 2019

45,527

The Company has a 401(k) plan that covers all domestic employees who meet the plan’s participation
requirements. The plan features include Company matching contributions, immediate 100% vesting of
Company contributions and a savings option up to 25% of qualified earnings. The Company makes
matching contributions, per pay period, up to a specified percentage of employees’ contributions as
approved by the Board of Directors. The Company made matching contributions to employee accounts in
connection with the 401(k) plan of $11.0 million in fiscal 2009, $10.8 million in fiscal 2008 and
$9.5 million in fiscal 2007.

Note L — Leases

The Company leases some of its retail stores, distribution centers, facilities, land and equipment,
including vehicles. Most of these leases are operating leases and include renewal options, at the
Company’s election, and some include options to purchase and provisions for percentage rent based
on sales. Rental expense was $181.3 million in fiscal 2009, $165.1 million in fiscal 2008, and
$152.5 million in fiscal 2007. Percentage rentals were insignificant.

The Company has a fleet of vehicles used for delivery to its commercial customers and travel for
members of field management. The majority of these vehicles are held under capital lease. At
August 29, 2009, the Company had capital lease assets of $53.9 million, net of accumulated
amortization of $25.4 million, and capital lease obligations
of $54.8 million. The $16.7 million current portion of these obligations was recorded as a
component of other current liabilities, and the $38.1 million long-term portion was recorded as a
component of other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. At August 30, 2008, the
Company had capital lease assets of $62.4 million, net of accumulated amortization of $14.4
million, and capital lease obligations of $64.1 million, of which $15.9 million was recorded as
current liabilities and $48.2 million was recorded as long-term liabilities.



The Company records rent for all operating leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term,
including any reasonably assured renewal periods and the period of time prior to the lease term
that the Company is in possession of the leased space for the purpose of installing leasehold
improvements. Differences between recorded rent expense and cash payments are recorded as a
liability in accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities on the balance sheet. This deferred
rent approximated $59.5 million on August 29, 2009, and $51.0 million on August 30, 2008.
Additionally, all leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of their useful life or the
remainder of the lease term, including any reasonably assured renewal periods, in effect when the
leasehold improvements are placed in service.

Minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and capital leases were as
follows at the end of fiscal 2009:

Operating

Capital

Fiscal Year         (in thousands)

Leases

Leases


$

177,781

$

16,932


167,760

16,402


151,890

13,729


135,348

7,420


115,801

1,220

Thereafter

809,447

—

Total minimum payments required

$

1,558,027

55,703

Less: interest

(939

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payments

$

54,764

In connection with the Company’s December 2001 sale of the TruckPro business, the Company subleased
some properties to the purchaser for an initial term of not less than 20 years. The Company’s
remaining aggregate rental obligation at August 29, 2009 of $22.1 million is included in the above
table, but the obligation is entirely offset by the sublease rental agreement.

Note M — Commitments and Contingencies

Construction commitments, primarily for new stores, totaled approximately $18.7 million at August
29, 2009.

The Company had $111.9 million in outstanding standby letters of credit and $14.8 million in surety
bonds as of August 29, 2009, which all have expiration periods of less than one year. A substantial
portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on an annual
basis) and surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’ compensation
carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with these instruments as the
underlying liabilities are already reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters
of credit and surety bonds arrangements have automatic renewal clauses.

Note N — Litigation

AutoZone, Inc. is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled “Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C.,
et al., v. AutoZone, Inc. et al.,” filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York in October 2004. The case was filed by more than 200 plaintiffs, which are principally
automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers (collectively “Plaintiffs”), against a
number of defendants, including automotive aftermarket retailers and aftermarket automotive parts
manufacturers. In the amended complaint, the plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that some or all of
the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants have knowingly received, in violation of the
Robinson-Patman Act (the “Act”), from various of the manufacturer defendants benefits



such as
volume discounts, rebates, early buy allowances and other allowances, fees, inventory without payment, sham advertising and promotional
payments, a share in the manufacturers’ profits, benefits of pay on scan purchases, implementation
of radio frequency identification technology, and excessive payments for services purportedly
performed for the manufacturers. Additionally, a subset of plaintiffs alleges a claim of fraud
against the automotive aftermarket retailer defendants based on discovery issues in a prior
litigation involving similar Robinson-Patman Act claims. In the prior litigation, the discovery
dispute, as well as the underlying claims, were decided in favor of AutoZone and the other
automotive aftermarket retailer defendants who proceeded to trial, pursuant to a unanimous jury
verdict which was affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In the current litigation,
plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages (including statutory trebling), attorneys’ fees,
and a permanent injunction prohibiting the aftermarket retailer defendants from inducing and/or
knowingly receiving discriminatory prices from any of the aftermarket manufacturer defendants and
from opening up any further stores to compete with plaintiffs as long as defendants allegedly
continue to violate the Act. The Company believes this suit to be without merit and is vigorously
defending against it. The Company is unable to estimate a loss or possible range of loss as of
August 29, 2009. Defendants have filed motions to dismiss all claims with prejudice on substantive
and procedural grounds. Additionally, the Defendants have sought to enjoin plaintiffs from filing
similar lawsuits in the future. If granted in their entirety, these dispositive motions would
resolve the litigation in Defendants’ favor.

The Company currently, and from time to time, is involved in various other legal proceedings
incidental to the conduct of its business. Although the amount of liability that may result from
these other proceedings cannot be ascertained, the Company does not currently believe that, in the
aggregate, these matters will result in liabilities material to the Company’s financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Note O — Segment Reporting

The Company’s two operating segments (Domestic Auto Parts and Mexico) have been aggregated as one
reportable segment: Auto Parts Stores. The criteria the Company used to identify the reportable
segment are primarily the nature of the products the Company sells and the operating results that
are regularly reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about the
resources to be allocated to the business units and to assess performance. The accounting policies
of the Company’s reportable segment are the same as those described in Note A.

The Auto Parts Stores segment is a retailer and distributor of automotive parts and accessories
through the Company’s 4,417 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico and Mexico. Each
store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks,
including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and
non-automotive products.

The “Other” category reflects business activities that are not separately reportable, including
ALLDATA which produces, sells and maintains diagnostic and repair information software used in the
automotive repair industry, and E-commerce, which includes direct sales to customers through
www.autozone.com.

The Company evaluates its reportable segment primarily on the basis of net sales and segment
profit, which is defined as gross profit. During the current year, the Company reassessed and
revised its reportable segment to exclude ALLDATA and E-commerce from the newly designated Auto
Parts Stores reporting segment. Previously, these immaterial business activities had been combined
with Auto Parts Stores.



The following table shows segment results for the fiscal years ended:

(in thousands)

August 29, 2009

August 30, 2008

August 25, 2007

Net Sales

Auto Parts Stores

$

6,671,939

$

6,383,697

$

6,044,685

Other

144,885

139,009

125,119

Total

$

6,816,824

$

6,522,706

$

6,169,804

Segment Profit

Auto Parts Stores

$

3,296,777

$

3,153,703

$

2,959,162

Other

119,672

114,358

105,088

Gross profit

3,416,449

3,268,061

3,064,250

Operating, selling,
general, and
administrative

(2,240,387

)

(2,143,927

)

(2,008,984

)

Interest expense, net

(142,316

)

(116,745

)

(119,116

)

Income before income taxes

$

1,033,746

$

1,007,389

$

936,150

Segment Assets

Auto Parts Stores

$

5,279,454

$

5,239,782

$

4,791,790

Other

38,951

17,330

12,919

Total

$

5,318,405

$

5,257,112

$

4,804,709

Capital Expenditures

Auto Parts Stores

$

260,448

$

238,631

$

223,767

Other

11,799

4,963


Total

$

272,247

$

243,594

$

224,474

Sales by Product Grouping

Failure

$

2,816,126

$

2,707,296

$

2,543,620

Maintenance items

2,655,113

2,462,923

2,311,091

Discretionary

1,200,700

1,213,478

1,189,974

Auto Parts Stores net sales

$

6,671,939

$

6,383,697

$

6,044,685



Quarterly Summary (1)

(unaudited)

Twelve

Sixteen

Weeks Ended

Weeks Ended

November 22,

February 14,

May 9,

August 29,

(in thousands, except per share data)




2009 (2)

Net sales

$

1,478,292

$

1,447,877

$

1,658,160

$

2,232,494

Increase (decrease) in domestic
comparable store sales

(1.5

)%

6.0

%

7.4

%

5.4

%

Gross profit

741,191

719,298

832,907

1,123,053

Operating profit

238,539

214,696

305,232

417,596

Income before income taxes

207,373

182,789

273,750

369,834

Net income

131,371

115,864

173,689

236,126

Basic earnings per share

2.25

2.05

3.18

4.49

Diluted earnings per share

2.23

2.03

3.13

4.43

November 17,

February 9,

May 3,

August 30,

(in thousands, except per share data)




2008 (2)

Net sales

$

1,455,655

$

1,339,244

$

1,517,293

$

2,210,514

Increase (decrease) in domestic
comparable store sales

1.3

%

(0.3

)%

(0.3

)%

0.6

%

Gross profit

726,448

667,795

762,006

1,111,812

Operating profit

237,375

196,885

273,034

416,839

Income before income taxes

209,313

168,297

247,703

382,075

Net income

132,516

106,704

158,638

243,747

Basic earnings per share

2.04

1.69

2.51

3.92

Diluted earnings per share

2.02

1.67

2.49

3.88

(1)

The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the annual amounts reported due to rounding and
due to per share amounts being computed independently for each quarter while the full year is
based on the annual weighted average shares outstanding.

(2)

The fiscal 2009 fourth quarter was based on a 16-week period and the fiscal 2008 fourth
quarter was based on a 17-week period. All other quarters presented are based on a 12-week
period.

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

As of August 29, 2009, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation
of AutoZone’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of
August 29, 2009. Based on that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective. During our fiscal fourth quarter ended August 29, 2009, there were no changes in our
internal controls that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
internal controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information set forth in Part I of this document in the section entitled “Executive Officers of
the Registrant,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item. Additionally, the
information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 26, 2009, in the sections
entitled “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethical Conduct for Financial Executives that applies to its
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and persons performing
similar functions. The Company has filed a copy of this Code of Ethical Conduct as Exhibit 14.1 to
this Form 10-K. The Company has also made the Code of Ethical Conduct available on its investor
relations website at http://www.autozoneinc.com.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 26, 2009, in the
section entitled “Executive Compensation,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this
item.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 26, 2009, in the
sections entitled “Security Ownership of Management” and “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Not applicable.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 26, 2009, in the
section entitled “Proposal 2 — Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” is
incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

The following information required under this item is filed as part of this report

(a) Financial Statements

The following financial statements, related notes and reports of independent registered public
accounting firm are filed with this Annual Report in Part II, Item 8:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended August 29, 2009, August 30, 2008,
and August 25, 2007

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 29, 2009, and August 30, 2008

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended August 29, 2009, August 30, 2008,
and August 25, 2007

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) for the fiscal years ended August 29,
2009, August 30, 2008, and August 25, 2007

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(b) Exhibits

The Exhibit Index following this document’s signature pages is incorporated herein by reference in
response to this item.

(c) Financial Statement Schedules

Schedules are omitted because the information is not required or because the information required
is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Dated: October 26, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated:

SIGNATURE

TITLE

DATE

/s/ William C. Rhodes, III

William C. Rhodes, III

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal
Executive Officer)

October 26, 2009

/s/ William T. Giles

William T. Giles

Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
President, Finance, Information Technology and Store
Development

(Principal Financial Officer)

October 26, 2009

/s/ Charlie Pleas, III

Charlie Pleas, III

Senior Vice President, Controller

(Principal
Accounting Officer)

October 26, 2009

/s/ William C. Crowley

William C. Crowley

Director

October 26, 2009

/s/ Sue E. Gove

Sue E. Gove

Director

October 26, 2009

/s/ Earl G. Graves, Jr.

Director

October 26, 2009

Earl G. Graves, Jr.

/s/ Robert R. Grusky

Director

October 26, 2009

Robert R. Grusky

/s/ J.R. Hyde, III

Director

October 26, 2009

J.R. Hyde, III

/s/ W. Andrew McKenna

Director

October 26, 2009

W. Andrew McKenna

/s/ George R. Mrkonic, Jr.

Director

October 26, 2009

George R. Mrkonic, Jr.

/s/ Luis P. Nieto

Director

October 26, 2009

Luis P. Nieto

/s/ Theodore W. Ullyot

Director

October 26, 2009

Theodore W. Ullyot



EXHIBIT INDEX

3.1

Restated Articles of Incorporation of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 13, 1999.

3.2

Fourth Amended and Restated By-laws of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Form 8-K dated September 28,
2007.

4.1

Senior Indenture, dated as of July 22, 1998, between AutoZone, Inc.
and the First National Bank of Chicago. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated July 17, 1998.

4.2

Fourth Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K
dated September 28, 2007.

4.3

Indenture dated as of August 8, 2003, between AutoZone, Inc. and
Bank One Trust Company, N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Form S-3 (No. 333-107828) filed August 11, 2003.

4.4

Terms Agreement dated October 16, 2002, by and among AutoZone,
Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several
underwriters named therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
1.2 to the Form 8-K dated October 18, 2002.

4.5

Form of 5.875% Note due 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Form 8-K dated October 18, 2002.

4.6

Terms Agreement dated May 29, 2003, by and among AutoZone, Inc.,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc.,
as representatives of the several underwriters named therein.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Form 8-K dated May 29, 2003.

4.7

Form of 4.375% Note due 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 29, 2003.

4.8

Terms Agreement dated November 3, 2003, by and among AutoZone,
Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets,
LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Form 8-K dated
November 3, 2003.

4.9

Form of 4.75% Note due 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Form 8-K dated November 3, 2003.

4.10

Form of 5.50% Note due 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.2 to the Form 8-K dated November 3, 2003.

4.11

Terms Agreement dated June 8, 2006, by and among AutoZone, Inc.,
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters
named therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the
Form 8-K dated June 13, 2006.

4.12

Form of 6.95% Senior Note due 2016. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated June 13, 2006.

4.13

Officers’ Certificate dated August 4, 2008, pursuant to Section 3.2
of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of
the 6.500% Senior Notes due 2014. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.

4.14

Form of 6.500% Senior Note due 2014. Incorporated by reference
from the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008

4.15

Officers’ Certificate dated August 4, 2008, pursuant to Section 3.2
of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of
the 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.



4.16

Form of 7.125% Senior Note due 2018. Incorporated by reference
from the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008

4.17

Officers’ Certificate dated July 2, 2009, pursuant to Section 3.2
of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of
the 5.750% Notes due 2015. Incorporated by reference to 4.1 to the
Form 8-K dated July 2, 2009.

4.18

Form of 5.750% Senior Note due 2015. Incorporated by reference
from the Form 8-K dated July 2, 2009

*10.1

Fourth Amended and Restated Director Stock Option Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 4, 2002.

*10.2

Second Amended and Restated 1998 Director Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended August 26, 2000.

*10.3

Third Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended August 30, 2003.

*10.4

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 23,
2002.

*10.5

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
November 23, 2002.

*10.6

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix C to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.7

AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Appendix D to the definitive proxy statement dated
November 1, 2002, for the annual meeting of stockholders held
December 12, 2002.

*10.8

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended February 15, 2003.

*10.9

AutoZone, Inc. 2005 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the Company’s Proxy
Statement dated October 27, 2004, for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held December 16, 2004.

10.10

Credit Agreement dated as of July 9, 2009, among AutoZone, Inc., as
Borrower, The Several Lenders From Time To Time Party Hereto, and
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Swingline
Lender, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and
Banc of America Securities, LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities, as
Joint Lead Arrangers, and Banc of America Securities, LLC, J.P.
Morgan Securities, Inc., Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., and
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as Joint Book Runners, and Suntrust
Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Regions Bank, and US Bank National
Association, as Documentation Agents.

*10.11

AutoZone, Inc. 2006 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to
Appendix A to the definitive proxy statement dated October 25,
2006, for the annual meeting of stockholders held December 13,
2006.

*10.12

Form of Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25,
2007.

*10.13

AutoZone, Inc. Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the definitive
proxy statement dated October 25, 2006, for the annual meeting of
stockholders held December 13, 2006.

*10.14

AutoZone, Inc. Director Compensation Program. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.



*10.15

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K dated
January 4, 2008.

*10.16

Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option
Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K dated
January 4, 2008.

*10.17

AutoZone, Inc. Enhanced Severance Pay Plan. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.18

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each
of the following executive officers: Jon A. Bascom, Timothy W.
Briggs, Mark A. Finestone, William T. Giles, William W. Graves,
Lisa R. Kranc, Thomas B. Newbern, Charlie Pleas III, Larry M.
Roesel and James A. Shea; and by AutoZone, Inc., with an effective
date of February 14, 2008, for each. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99.2 to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.19

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement approved by
AutoZone’s Compensation Committee for execution by non-executive
officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Form
8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.20

Agreement dated February 14, 2008, between AutoZone, Inc. and
William C. Rhodes, III. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3
to the Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.

*10.21

Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each
of the following officers: Rebecca W. Ballou, Dan Barzel, Craig
Blackwell, Brian L. Campbell, Philip B. Daniele, III, Robert A.
Durkin, Bill Edwards, Wm. David Gilmore, Stephany L. Goodnight,
David Goudge, James C. Griffith, William R. Hackney, Rodney
Halsell, Diana H. Hull, Jeffery Lagges, Grantland E. McGee, Jr.,
Mitchell Major, Ann A. Morgan, J. Scott Murphy, Jeffrey H. Nix,
Raymond A. Pohlman, Elizabeth Rabun, Juan A. Santiago, Joe L.
Sellers, Jr., Brett Shanaman and Solomon Woldeslassie.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended May 3, 2008.

10.22

Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2008 between AutoZone, Inc. and ESL
Investments, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Form 8-K dated June 26, 2008.

*10.23

Second Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement
between AutoZone, Inc. and Harry L. Goldsmith dated December 29,
2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K
dated December 30, 2008.

*10.24

Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between
AutoZone, Inc. and Robert D. Olsen dated December 29, 2008.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K dated
December 30, 2008.

12.1

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

14.1

Code of Ethical Conduct. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1
of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.

21.1

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

31.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

31.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

32.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

68